<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090220_10-K_edgar_data_18230_0000018230-09-000063_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>26016085</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>635755</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4681920</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6502264</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>144</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000018230-09-000063.hdr.sgml : 20090220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090220144922
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000018230-09-000063
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CATERPILLAR INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000018230
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIP [3531]
		IRS NUMBER:				370602744
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00768
		FILM NUMBER:		09624751

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3096751000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19860623

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FZTzX8on/br7lYYWLrcCrwJQd2qcEwAF48aYMLciHOZ8ZgtuizYwiDIISl0ozm18
 XvWq7fo0u5/lP/9coKInOw==

 0000018230-09-000063.txt : 20090220

10-K
 1
 form10k_2008.htm
 FORM 10-K FOR 2008

form10k_2008.htm 

Securities registered pursuant to
      Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of each
      class  

Name of each
      exchange  

                   on
      which registered      

Common Stock ($1.00 par
      value)  (1)  

Chicago Stock
      Exchange  

                 New York Stock
      Exchange  

Preferred Stock Purchase
      Rights  

Chicago Stock
      Exchange  

                 New York Stock
      Exchange  

9 3/8% Debentures due August 15,
      2011  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

9 3/8% Debentures due March 15,
      2021  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

8% Debentures due February 15,
      2023  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

5.3% Debentures due September 15,
      2035  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

(1)   
             
                 In addition to the exchanges in
      the United States, Caterpillar common stock is also listed on stock
      exchanges in Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain   and
      Switzerland.  

Securities registered pursuant to
      Section 12(g) of the
Act:  None  

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.    Yes [       ]   No
[    ]  

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.  

Yes
[    ]   No [       ]  

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.   Yes [     ]   No
[    ]  

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form  10-K.  
 [      ]    

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of   "large
accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company" in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  (Check one):

         Large accelerated filer   [       ]     Accelerated filer
  [  
 ]     Non-accelerated filer
  [ 
   ]  Smaller Reporting
Company  [   ]  

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).  

Yes
[    ]   No [       ]  

As of June 30, 2008, there were
608,716,182 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding, and the
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant (assuming only for purposes of this computation that directors and
executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately   $44.5 billion.  

As
of December 31,  2008 , there
were 601,526,641 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding, and the
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant (assuming only for purposes of the computation that directors and
executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately $26.6
billion.  

Documents Incorporated by
Reference  

Portions
of the documents listed below have been incorporated by reference into the
indicated parts of this Form 10-K, as specified in the responses to the item
numbers involved.  

Part III  

2009 Annual Meeting Proxy
      Statement (Proxy Statement) expected to be filed with the Securities and
      Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 20, 2009 but not later than June 30,
      2009 (within 120 days after the end of the calendar
      year).  

Parts I, II,
    IV  

General and Financial Information
      for 2008 containing the information required by SEC Rule 14a-3 for an
      annual report to security holders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K
      (Exhibit 13).  

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS 

Page  

Part I  

Item
      1.   

Business  

1  

Item
      1A.   

Risk Factors  

12  

Item
      1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments as of
      December 31, 2008  

20  

Item
      1C.   

Executive Officers of the
      Registrant as of December 31, 2008  

20  

Item
      2.   

Properties  

20  

Item
      3.   

Legal
      Proceedings  

23  

Item
      4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of
      Security Holders  

23  

Part II  

Item
      5.   

Market for Registrant's Common
      Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities  

23  

Item
      6.   

Selected Financial
      Data  

24  

Item
      7.   

Management's Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial  

                 Condition and Results of
      Operations  

25  

Item
      7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative
      Disclosures About Market Risk  

25  

Item
      8.   

Financial Statements and
      Supplementary Data  

25  

Item
      9.   

Changes in and Disagreements With
      Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

25  

Item
      9A.   

Controls and
      Procedures  

25  

Item
      9B.   

Other
      Information  

26  

Part III  

Item
      10.   

Directors, Executive Officers and
      Corporate Governance  

26  

Item
      11.   

Executive
      Compensation  

27  

Item
      12.   

Security Ownership of Certain
      Beneficial Owners and Management  

                 and Related Stockholder
      Matters  

27  

Item
      13.   

Certain Relationships and Related
      Transactions, and Director Independence  

27  

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and
      Services  

27  

Part IV  

Item
      15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement
      Schedules  

28  

PART
      I      

Item 1 .   Business.      

General  

The company was originally organized as
Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of California.  In 1986,
the company reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in the State of
Delaware.  As used herein, the term "Caterpillar," "we," "us," "our,"
or "the company" refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries unless
designated or identified otherwise.  

Principal
Lines of Business / Nature of Operations  

      We operate in three
principal lines of business: 

1. 

Machinery    A principal line of business
      which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of
      construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel tractors,
      track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products, skid steer loaders and related parts. Also includes logistics
      services for other companies and the design, manufacture, remanufacture,
      maintenance and services of rail-related products.  

2. 

Engines      A principal line of business
      including the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of engines for
      Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation systems; on-highway
      vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum, construction, industrial,
      agricultural and other applications; and related parts.  Also
      includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and a variety of
      Caterpillar machine and engine components and remanufacturing services for
      other companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power needs ranging
      from 10 to 21,700 horsepower (8 to over 16 000
      kilowatts).  Turbines range from 1,600 to 30,000 horsepower (1
      200 to 22 000 kilowatts).  

3. 

Financial
      Products       A principal line of
      business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial Services
      Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc. (Cat
      Insurance), Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation (Cat Power Ventures)
      and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat Financial provides a
      wide range of financing alternatives to customers and dealers for
      Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well as other
      equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also extends loans
      to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides various forms
      of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and
      lease of our equipment.  Cat Power Ventures is an investor in
      independent power projects using Caterpillar power generation equipment
      and services.  

Due to financial information required by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,   Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,   we have also divided our business into
nine reportable segments for financial reporting
purposes.  Information about our reportable segments, including
geographic information, appears in Note 24    Segment information      of Exhibit 13.  

Other information about our operations
in 2008 and our outlook for 2009, including risks associated with foreign
operations, is incorporated by reference from  "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" of Exhibit 13.  

Company
Strengths     

       Caterpillar is the leader in
construction and mining equipment, and diesel and natural gas engines and
industrial gas turbines in our size range. The company is also a leading
services provider through Cat Financial, Caterpillar Logistics Services Inc.,
Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services and Progress Rail Services Corporation
(Progress Rail).  Annual sales and revenues were $ 51.324 billion in
2008, making Caterpillar the largest manufacturer in its
industry.  Caterpillar is also a leading U.S.
exporter.  Through direct sales of certain products and a global
network of independent dealers, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with
customers around the world.  For more than 80 years, the Caterpillar
name has been associated with the highest level of quality products and
services.  More information is available at   www.CAT.com.  

Page 1  

Competitive
Environment  

      Caterpillar
products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of
highly competitive markets.  In all markets, we compete on the basis
of product performance, customer service, quality and price.  From
time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a
particular industry or region.  Such price discounting puts pressure
on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. 

Outside of the
United States, certain competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to
operating in their home countries or regions. 

Machinery   

The competitive environment for
Caterpillar s machinery business consists of some global competitors and many
regional and specialized local competitors.  Examples of global
competitors include, but are not limited to, Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction
Equipment (part of the Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co., Terex Corporation, J.C. Bamford Ltd. and Doosan Infracore Co.,
Ltd.  Each of these companies have varying numbers of product lines
that compete with Caterpillar products and each have varying degrees of regional
focus.  John Deere Construction and Forestry Division (part of Deere
  Co.), for example, has numerous product lines that compete with
Caterpillar primarily in North America and Latin America.  Others,
like JCB, offer a limited range of products that compete globally against
Caterpillar.  

Global industry demand increased in the
first three quarters of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 due to gains in
developing economies and commodity sectors.  Demand in the developed
economies declined during this period.  The financial crisis worsened
after mid September, leading to a worldwide recession and collapses in most
commodity prices.  During fourth quarter 2008, industry demand in all
regions dropped below fourth quarter 2007 levels.  

Caterpillar's logistics business
provides integrated supply chain services for Caterpillar and over 55 other
companies worldwide.  It competes with global, regional and local
competitors, including companies such as DHL International, GmbH and United
Parcel Service, Inc.  The unit has grown rapidly since its inception
in 1987.  

Since its acquisition by Caterpillar in
June 2006, wholly owned subsidiary Progress Rail has continued its position in
North America as a leading provider of a broad range of
products.  Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a leading
provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products and services
to the North American railroad industry.  The company also has one of
the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North
America.  Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is
a good fit with our strategic direction and leverages Caterpillar s
global remanufacturing capabilities.  

Engines     

Caterpillar operates in a very
competitive engine/turbine manufacturing and packaging environment. The company
designs, manufactures, markets and sells diesel, heavy fuel and natural gas
reciprocating engines for Caterpillar machinery, electric power generation
systems, on-highway vehicles and locomotives, marine, petroleum, construction,
industrial, agricultural and other applications.  In addition,
Caterpillar provides industrial turbines and turbine related services for oil
and gas and power generation applications.  

The competitive environment for
reciprocating engines in marine, petroleum, construction, industrial,
agriculture and electric power generation systems along with turbines consists
of a few global competitors who compete in a variety of markets that Caterpillar
serves, and a larger set of companies who compete in a limited size range and/or
application. Principal global competitors include, but are not limited to,
Cummins Inc., MTU Friedrichshafen and MTU Detroit Diesel (both are a Tognum
Group Company) and Wartsila Corp. Other competitors, such as John Deere Power
Systems, Siemens AG Power Generation, GE Energy, MAN Diesel SE, Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd., and Volvo Penta (part of AB Volvo Group) compete in certain
markets in which Caterpillar competes. An additional set of competitors,
including Generac Power Systems, Inc., Kohler Co., Kawasaki Heavy Industries,
Ltd., Rolls-Royce Group plc and others, are packagers who source engines and/or
other components from domestic and international suppliers and market products
regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution
channels.  

Page 2 

In North America, Caterpillar competes
for sales of on-highway diesel engines with, among others, Cummins Inc.,
 Detroit Diesel Corp. and Mercedes-Benz (both part of Daimler AG),
Navistar International Corp. and AB  Volvo Group . Outside North
America, Caterpillar competes for sales of on-highway diesel engines with, among
others,  Mitsubishi Fuso Truck
  Bus Corp. (both part of Daimler AG), DAF Trucks N.V., Dongfeng Motor
Corporation, Fiat PowerTrain Technologies S.p.A., MAN AG and Scania
AB.  Some of these competitors are truck and/or bus manufacturers with
proprietary diesel engines who also offer engines from independent manufacturers
such as  Caterpillar. As previously announced, Caterpillar will
not provide Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2010 compliant engines to
truck and other on-highway original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
Additionally, by mid-2009 Caterpillar will supply a very limited number of EPA
2007 compliant engines to truck and other on-highway OEMs.  

Since the introduction of its four
engine models with ACERT  Technology beginning in 2003, Caterpillar has
continued to focus investment and resources on leveraging ACERT Technology into
non-road markets, as well as into more of its engine platforms. The building
blocks for ACERT Technology are flexible and scaleable and are being applied as
needed based on engine platform and application.  From October 2004
through year-end 2008, Caterpillar has shipped over 65,000 Caterpillar machines
powered by engines with ACERT Technology.  A line of ACERT industrial,
electric power and marine engines has been released to further leverage the
technology throughout Caterpillar s businesses and engine
platforms.  

We believe ACERT
provides Caterpillar a valuable foundation now and in the future to meet
emissions and performance requirements, and we plan to continue investing in
developing and leveraging ACERT Technology systems and components. 

Caterpillar s remanufacturing business
provides services for a variety of products and services to Caterpillar and
other external clients.  The remanufacturing business competes on a
regional basis with similarly sized or smaller companies.  The company
launched the remanufacturing business in the 1970s with engines/turbines and is
now one of the world s largest remanufacturers, processing more than two million
units annually and recycling more than 140 million pounds of remanufactured
products each year.   The business continues to grow at rates
well above that of the global economy as a whole.  

Previously, Caterpillar announced it
would comply with Tier 4 requirements for its non-road engines and has invested
significant  R D expenditures on projects to ensure compliance,
which also includes the use of certain allowances and credits provided under the
Tier 4 regulations.  

Financial
       Products     

Our financial
products business is primarily conducted by Cat Financial. Cat Financial,
incorporated in Delaware, is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of
Caterpillar.  Cat Financial's primary business is to provide retail
and wholesale financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers
around the world.  Such retail financing is primarily comprised of
financing of Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines.  In
addition, Cat Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation
facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar
products.  In addition to retail
financing,  Cat Financial provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar
dealers and purchases short-term dealer receivables from
Caterpillar.   The
various financing plans offered by Cat Financial are designed to increase the
opportunity for sales of Caterpillar products and generate financing income for
Cat Financial.  A significant portion of Cat Financial's activities is
conducted in North America.  However, Cat Financial has additional
offices and subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Europe and Latin
America.  

For over 25 years,
Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it
participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends and
customer needs. 

In certain
instances, Cat Financial's operations are subject to supervision and regulation
by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be
subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing
various requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate
credit granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish
maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require
disclosures to customers, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection,
foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use
and reporting of information related to a borrower's credit
experience. 

Page 3 

Cat Financial's
retail leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 60 percent*)
include: 

Tax leases
      that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial
      accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the
      lease.  For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner
      of the equipment (17 percent*). 

Finance
      (non-tax) leases where the lessee for tax purposes is considered the owner
      of the equipment during the term of the lease, and the agreement either
      requires or allows the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed
      price at the end of the term (21
percent*). 

Installment
      sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to
      purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structured payments
      over time (21 percent*). 

Governmental
      lease-purchase plans in the United States that offer low interest rates
      and flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1
      percent*). 

Retail notes
receivables (27 percent*) include: 

Loans that
      allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment as
      collateral to obtain financing. 

Wholesale notes
receivables, finance leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 13
percent*) include: 

Inventory/rental
      programs which provide assistance to dealers by financing new Caterpillar
      inventory and rental fleets  (5
      percent*).  

Short-term
      dealer receivables that Cat Financial purchases from Caterpillar and
      subsidiaries at a discount (8
percent*). 

The retail
financing business is highly competitive, with financing for users of
Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally
commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. Cat Financial's competitors
include Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc.; General Electric Capital Corporation
and various local banks and finance companies.  In addition, many of
our manufacturing competitors, such as Volvo Financial Services, Komatsu
Financial L.P. and John Deere Credit Corporation, use below-market interest rate
programs (subsidized by the manufacturer) to assist machine
sales.  Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide a broad
array of financial merchandising programs around the world to meet these
competitive offers. 

Cat Financial's financial results are
largely dependent upon the ability of Caterpillar dealers to sell equipment and
customers' willingness to enter into financing or leasing
agreements.  It is also affected by, among other things, the
availability of funds from its financing sources, general economic conditions
such as inflation and market interest rates and its cost of funds relative to
its competitors.  

Cat Financial has a "match funding"
policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile
(fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate
profile of its receivables portfolio (loans and leases with customers and
dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis.  In
connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with a similar interest
rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate swap agreements to
manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some
cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds. For more information regarding match
funding, please see Note 3    Derivative financial instruments and risk
management  of Exhibit 13.  Also see the Risk to Financial Services
Line of Business for general risk associated with our financial products
business on pages 17 and 18 of this Form 10-K.  

In managing foreign currency risk for
Cat Financial's operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility
resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance
sheet positions.  This policy allows the use of foreign currency
forward and option contracts to address the risk of currency mismatch between
the receivable and debt portfolios.  None of these foreign currency
forward and option contracts are designated as a hedge.  

__________ 

      *Indicates the
percentage of Cat Financial's total portfolio at December 31,
2008.  We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of
unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating
leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat
Financial's concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 8    Finance
receivables  of Exhibit 13. 

Page 4 

Cat Financial
provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met.  Credit
decisions are based on, among other factors, the customer's credit history,
financial strength and equipment application.  Cat Financial typically
maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical
damage insurance coverage on financed equipment.  Cat Financial
finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers' sales and inventory of
Caterpillar equipment throughout the world.  Cat Financial's
competitive position is improved by marketing programs offered in conjunction
with Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers. Under these programs, Caterpillar,
or the dealer, subsidizes an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat
Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the
financing.  Transaction processing time and supporting technologies
continue to drive Cat Financial in its efforts to respond quickly to customers
and improve internal processing efficiencies.  We believe Cat
Financial's web-based Cat Financ Express  SM 
transaction processing and information tool currently available in the United
States, France, Canada and Australia provides Cat Financial a competitive
advantage in those areas.  Cat Financ Express  SM  is an
on-line tool that provides finance quotes, credit decisions and the ability to
print the appropriate financial documents for end-user signature, all in a
reasonably short time frame. 

Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in
Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of
Insurance.  Caterpillar Insurance Company is licensed to conduct
property and casualty insurance business in 49 states and the District of
Columbia, and as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as
well.  The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and
monitors Caterpillar Insurance Company s financial status to ensure that it is
in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial
ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners.  

Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a
wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in
Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of
Insurance.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company is licensed to conduct
life and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of
Columbia, and as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of
Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial
status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as
well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company also
provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary Employees'
Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of salaried
retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA.  

Caterpillar
Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a captive
insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary
Authority.   Caterpillar
Insurance Co. Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance
Amendment Act of 1995), which primarily insures affiliates and, as such, the
Bermuda Monetary Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of
monitoring compliance with solvency requirements.  

Caterpillar Product Services
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company
domiciled in Missouri.   It conducts a machine extended service
contract program in Italy, France and Germany by providing machine extended
warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in those
countries.  

Caterpillar Insurance Services
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a Tennessee
insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District of
Columbia.  It provides brokerage services for all property and
casualty and life and health lines of business.  

Caterpillar s insurance group provides
protection for claims under the following programs:  

Contractual
      Liability Insurance to Caterpillar, Caterpillar dealers and Original
      Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) for extended service contracts (parts and
      labor) offered by third party dealers and
OEMs. 

Cargo
      insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar
      products. 

Contractors'
      Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by
      Caterpillar or OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party
      dealers to customers. 

Page 5 

General
      liability, employer's liability, auto liability and property insurance for
      Caterpillar. 

Retiree
      Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the
    VEBA. 

Brokerage
      services for property and casualty and life and health
      business. 

Cat Power Ventures,
a wholly owned   subsidiary of
Caterpillar, primarily invested equity and took ownership interests in power
generation projects throughout the world that utilized Caterpillar power
generation equipment. In some cases, these projects also utilized construction
and operations and maintenance services that are provided by other Caterpillar
subsidiaries. In December 2005, Cat Power Ventures decided that it would no
longer invest equity in power generation projects.  As a result, Cat
Power Ventures has not made any new equity investments in power generation
projects and has sold a majority of its project investment portfolio, including
divesting its investment interests in Poland and the Dominican Republic in 2008.
It continues to hold an equity interest in a project in Tunisia. 

Business
Developments in 2008  

Economic
and Market Conditions 

      Our business,
results of operations and financial condition are materially affected by the
conditions in the global economy. The global economic crisis and the volatility
in the credit and capital markets, which began in 2007, had a significant impact
on our 2008 profitability. Overall, the company realized record 2008 sales and
revenues of $51.324 billion, with strong sales and revenues and profit per share
for the first three quarters of the year. However, due to the deteriorating
global economic conditions and the volatility of financial markets, our fourth
quarter profit per share of $1.08 was significantly depressed, down 28 percent
from the fourth quarter of 2007. While sales and revenues of about $12.923
billion increased $779 million from the fourth quarter of 2007, our fourth
quarter profit of $661 million decreased by $314 million from 2007 fourth
quarter profit. This was due to the significantly higher manufacturing
costs driven by higher material and freight costs, along with manufacturing
inefficiencies, as costs did not drop in line with a sharp decline in production
volume.  Also, we experienced a significant decrease in the
profitability of our financial products business as a result of the turbulence
in the financial markets. 

As we move forward
in 2009, the global economic conditions and key commodity prices have continued
to decline significantly, the financial markets remain under stress and our
expectations for 2009 have deteriorated.  We are projecting 2009
sales and revenues to be in a range of plus or minus 10 percent from $40
billion, down 25 percent from 2008 sales. At $40 billion in sales and revenues
in 2009, the company expects to achieve profit of about $2.00 per share or $2.50
per share excluding redundancy costs. We have been rapidly executing our
 trough  plans and implementing actions throughout the company to deal with a
very challenging global business environment and to reduce costs. Some of the
 trough  plans and actions include: 

Significant reductions in total
      compensation for executives / senior
  managers.  

Voluntary and involuntary employee
      separations and layoffs.  

Hiring freezes and suspension of
      salary increases for most support and management
      employees.  

Reduction in indirect expenses of
      about 15 percent.  

Significant reduction in capital
      expenditures.  

Sharp declines in overtime
      work.  

Several facilities have shortened
      workweeks, and   others
      will or have implemented   full and partial plant
      shutdowns.  

Shifting more resources to short-
      and medium-term material cost
reduction.  

Shifting more resources to
      inventory reduction
projects.  

While we expect the
full year of 2009 to be very challenging, profit in the first half, and
particularly the first quarter will be under severe pressure.  In fact, a
first quarter loss is possible.  

As a result of the
impact of the global economic downturn on our business, many of the expansion
plans announced in 2008, some of which are discussed below under Growth
Initiatives, are under review and will be implemented based on our spending
priorities. 

Page 6 

Financial
Results and Stockholder Value 

       Full year 2008 result  s marked the sixth consecutive year of
record sales for Caterpillar, including sales and revenues of $51.324
  billion and profit of
$3.557 billion, or $5.66 per share.  In October 2008, Caterpillar
marked the milestone achievement of 300 consecutive quarters of paying dividends
to stockholders.  We also reduced the number of shares outstanding by
repurchasing 27.3 million shares in 2008 at a   cost of $1.879 billion in support of
our Board-authorized $7.5 billion stock repurchase programs approved in February
2007 and to be completed by 2011.  As of December 31, 2008, the
company had 601,526,641 shares of stock outstanding.  On January 26,
2009, the company announced that it would temporarily suspend its stock
repurchase program.  

Sustainability 

      In 2008, the
company continued its efforts in sustainable development and commitment to make
sustainable development a "strategic area of improvement" in our enterprise
strategy.  The company was selected as a member of the Dow Jones
Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) for the eighth consecutive year and has
retained the leadership position in the Industrial Engineering sector for the
third year.  DJSI uses a best-in-class approach designed to identify
best practices across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of
corporate sustainability. 

Caterpillar
Production System (CPS) 

      We continued our
internal focus on global deployment of CPS with 6
Sigma.  Implementation of CPS is fundamental to reaching our 2010
goals to significantly improve product availability and increase
inventory turns.  We achieved our target assessment score for year-end
2008 and early-hour product quality as well as safety improved
dramatically. 

Growth Initiatives  

       In 2008, the company made progress
toward its g  oal of
continuing expansion of our business in China and other emerging markets and to
move   toward achieving
market leadership.  In support of   our overall enterprise strategy and
Vision 2020,   Caterpillar
took the following actions during 2008.  

In January
      2008, Caterpillar completed the final steps in the acquisition of the
      remaining 60 percent equity interest in Shandong Machinery Co. Ltd. (SEM),
      a leading wheel loader manufacturer in China.  The company also
      announced a multi-million dollar expansion to increase the capacity of
      SEM, demonstrating its commitment to support its growing customer base in
      the Chinese construction equipment industry.  The investment
      will allow Caterpillar to meet growing demand and provide a broader
      product portfolio to wheel loader customers. We are currently
      planning to expand SEM's production capacity and have purchased
      land for this purpose.  The construction is expected to
      begin in 2009. 

In April
      2008, Caterpillar expanded its Global Mining business through the
      acquisition of Lovat Inc. (Lovat), a leading global manufacturer of tunnel
      boring machines used in the construction of metro, railway, road, sewer,
      water main, penstock, mine access, high voltage cable and
      telecommunications tunnels. 

In June 2008,
      as part of its strategic plan to increase its manufacturing footprint in
      the rapidly growing Asia-Pacific region, Caterpillar announced a
      four-year, $200 million investment to increase manufacturing capacity in
      India, by significantly increasing production for off-highway trucks made
      at its facility near Chennai, expanding engine production at its facility
      in Hosur and increasing India production capability for backhoe
      loaders.  The additional investment demonstrates Caterpillar's
      commitment to customers in India and the importance of such emerging
      markets as we build our proven global business model across the
      Asia-Pacific region, an area that is critical to Caterpillar's 2010 and
      Vision 2020 goals. 

Caterpillar
      also reached an agreement to acquire all of the capital stock of MGE
      Equipamentos   Servi os Ferrovi rios Ltda. (MGE), a manufacturer and
      reconditioner of traction motors, main and auxiliary generators, control
      equipment and auxiliary components for locomotives and transit cars based
      in Diadema and Hortolandia in Sao Paulo State, Brazil.  In
      addition, MGE maintains, modernizes and rebuilds transit cars and
      locomotives.  The acquisition of MGE represents an important
      step in the international growth strategy of Caterpillar's Progress Rail
      Services Division (Progress Rail) and an important part of Caterpillar's
      Vision 2020 strategy. 

Page 7 

Caterpillar
      also announced the acquisition of certain assets of Gremada Industries,
      Inc. (Gremada), a leader in the processes of remanufacturing and
      reclaiming metal parts and components used in transmissions, torque
      converters and final drives.  Gremada provides service support
      for off-highway equipment used in the mining and petroleum industries, and
      it has extensive experience providing remanufacturing expertise for
      equipment used for petroleum drilling applications.  Gremada
      will become part of Caterpillar's Remanufacturing Division, enhancing
      product and service offerings and increasing strategic focus for
      remanufacturing in the mining and petroleum industries, supporting
      Caterpillar s continued service businesses growth
  strategy. 

In August
      2008, Caterpillar announced plans to further expand its global business
      model in China by   adding to its
      China-based research and development (R D) operations to increase the
      technical support for products serving markets in China and the rest of
      the Asia Pacific Region. The city of Wuxi in Jiangsu province was
      announced as the location for a multi-functional research and development
      center serving Caterpillar's ventures in China and the rest of the Asia
      Pacific Region.  This additional R D effort is part of
      Caterpillar's strategy to support the expanded manufacturing footprint
      being implemented in China and the growing market demand in emerging
      markets. The center will be built in multiple phases with the first phase
      to be complete at the end of 2009. 

Also in
      August, Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) completed the first phase
      of a share redemption plan whereby SCM redeemed one-half of Mitsubishi
      Heavy Industries Ltd. s shares in SCM. This resulted in Caterpillar owning
      67 percent of the renamed entity, Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat
      Japan). 

In September 2008, Caterpillar
      announced it would open a new remanufacturing facility in Singapore, as
      part of its strategic plan to increase remanufacturing operations and
      better support the mining market in Asia. The new facility will serve as
      the regional source for remanufactured major components, including mining
      truck engines, transmissions, final drives and torque converters and
      expand Caterpillar's current remanufacturing operations in the
      Asia-Pacific region.  The facility is anticipated to be fully
      operational by mid-2010.  

Also in September, Caterpillar
      expanded on implementation of its long-planned strategy to include core
      machine assembly operations in its existing component production facility
      in Tosno, Russia. Caterpillar has manufactured components in Tosno since
      2000, exporting those components from Russia to other Caterpillar machine
      factories in Europe. The hydraulic excavators assembled in Tosno in 2008
      are the first core machines Caterpillar has produced in Russia. The
      Tosno-built machines will be sold to customers in the rapidly expanding
      Russian market.  

In October
      2008, Caterpillar and Trimble Navigation Limited, the leading innovator in
      developing technology for mobile and work applications, announced the
      creation of a new joint venture company and a new distribution
      agreement.  The new company, VirtualSite Solutions, will
      integrate the deep expertise of both parent companies in the areas of
      product design and software development to transform the way contractors
      manage their businesses. The joint venture will create information rich
      worksites allowing customers to more efficiently and safely manage their
      equipment fleets, reduce operating costs and improve productivity in the
      area of fuel consumption, maintenance, worksite productivity and fleet
      logistics. 

Other
2008 Developments 

In June 2008,
      Caterpillar announced a multi-year $1 billion capacity expansion that will
      position key factories in Illinois and other areas to compete for the long
      term. The investments will allow Caterpillar to meet continued demand and
      bolster its global leadership for machines used primarily in mining and
      large infrastructure applications. In support of this capacity expansion,
      the company will invest more than $1 billion from 2008 through 2010 in
      five existing facilities in Illinois (East Peoria, Joliet, Decatur, Aurora
      and Mossville). 

In October
      2008, to strengthen its world-class product and service offerings,
      Caterpillar announced a realignment of its machine product and marketing
      organizations to sharpen customer focus, position the company to achieve
      its 2010 and Vision 2020 goals and build deep expertise in product
      development. 

The realigned
structure created five end-to-end Machine Business Divisions: Mining, Quarry
  Waste (subsequently renamed Quarry   Specialty Industries),
Excavation, Earthmoving and Building Construction Products that incorporate
design, manufacturing, marketing, sales and product support for the entire value
chain. This new structure will increase accountability and drive global growth
as well as profitability. 

Page 8 

The alignment also
introduced three new regional Distribution Services Divisions within
Caterpillar, replacing the company s existing marketing arms. They will have
responsibility for Caterpillar s total portfolio of business with each dealer,
the dealer relationship, dealer development and ensuring the most efficient and
effective distribution of Caterpillar machines, engines and parts. 

The new structure
also expanded and reorganized Caterpillar s Motion   Power Control Division
into two new divisions.  The new Advanced Systems Division will focus
on designing and manufacturing critical components and integrated
systems hydraulic, transmission and lower powertrain while working even more
closely with worldwide suppliers to provide these solutions both internally and
externally to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).  The new Core
Components Division will bring together the engineering and supply base for
hoses and tubes, filters and common components like tires, bearings, fasteners
and seals. Along with undercarriage and ground engaging tools, this new division
will bring better business focus to these widely used components. 

Business
Combinations  

       Information related to acquisitions and
alliances appears in Note 25    Business Combinations      of Exhibit 13.  

Raw
Materials and Component Products  

       We source our raw materials and
manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and
internationally. These purchases include unformed materials, rough and finished
parts.  Unformed materials would be a variety of steel products which
are then cut or formed to shape and machined in our facilities. Rough parts
would be various sized steel and iron castings and forgings which are machined
to final specification levels inside our facilities. Finished parts are ready to
assemble components which are made to either Caterpillar specifications or to
the supplier developed specifications.  We machine and assemble some
of the components used in our machines, engines and power generation units and
to support our after-market Dealer parts sales. We also purchase various goods
and services used in production, logistics, offices and product development
processes.  We maintain global strategic sourcing models to meet our
global facilities' production needs while building long term supplier
relationships and leveraging enterprise spend.  We expect our
suppliers to maintain, at all times, industry-leading levels of quality and
delivery of raw materials and component products supplied for our machine and
engine products.  We use a variety of agreements with suppliers to
protect our intellectual property and processes to monitor and mitigate risks of
the supply base causing a business disruption.  The risks monitored
include supplier financial viability, business continuity, quality and
delivery.  

Order
Backlog  

       Much of our backlog is in large engines,
gas turbines and in mining products. The dollar amount of backlog believed to be
firm was approximately $14.7 billion at December 31, 2008, and $17.8 billion at
December 31, 2007.  Of the total backlog, approximately $2.2 billion
at December 31, 2008, and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2007, was not expected to
be filled in the following year.  Our backlog is generally highest in
the first and second quarters because of seasonal buying trends in our
industry.  As we look forward to 2009, we expect our backlog to ease,
particularly in the mining sector, which has begun to experience slowing
investment activities due to declining commodity prices.  

Dealers  

       Our machines are distributed
principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network ),
52  located in the
United States and 128 located outside the United States, serving 182 countries
and  operating  3,537
  places of
business, including dealer rental outlets.  Reciprocating engines are sold
principally through the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in
their products. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins are
also sold through its worldwide network of 131 distributors located in 172
countries. Most of the electric power generation systems manufactured by FG
Wilson are sold through its worldwide network of 157 dealers located in 180
countries. 

These dealers do
not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and
servicing of our products are the dealers' principal
businesses.  Turbines and large medium speed reciprocating engines are
sold through sales forces employed by the company.  At times, these
employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

Page 9 

The company's
relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard
sales and service agreement.  Pursuant to this agreement, the company
grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the
products in a specified geographic service territory.  Prices to
dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on
transactional pricing in the marketplace.  The company also agrees to
defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support
to the dealer.  The agreement further grants the dealer a
non-exclusive license to use the company's trademarks, service marks and brand
names.  In some instances a separate trademark agreement exists
between the company and a dealer. 

In exchange for
these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale
of the company's products to current and prospective customers in the dealer's
service territory.  Each dealer specifically agrees to employ adequate
sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company's products,
demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company's product improvement
programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe
operation of any of the company's products and maintain detailed books and
records of the dealer's financial condition, sales and inventories and make
these books and records available at the company's reasonable
request. 

These sales and
service agreements are terminable at will by either party upon 90 days written
notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for
bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking
protection from creditors. 

Patents
and Trademarks   

       Our products are sold primarily under
the brands "Caterpillar," "CAT," design versions of "CAT" and "Caterpillar,"
"Solar Turbines," "MaK," "Perkins," "FG Wilson," "Olympian" and  Progress
Rail.   We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been
obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we manufacture and
the services we provide.  These patents and trademarks have been of
value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the
future.  We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon
any single patent or group of patents.  

Research and
Development  

      We have always
placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to
the development of new or improved machines, engines and major
components.  In 2008, 2007 and 2006, we spent $1,728  million,  $1,404 million and
$1,347 million, or 3.4 percent, 3.1 percent and 3.2 percent of our sales and
revenues, respectively, on our research and development programs.  We
expect R D expenditures in 2009 to decline somewhat from 2008 levels and we
will emphasize product development required to meet Tier 4 emissions
requirements. 

Employment  

      As of December 31,
2008, we employed 112,887 persons of whom 59,378 were located outside the United
States.  However, due to deteriorating global economic conditions that
are having a significant impact on our business, the company is
implementing workforce reductions that will reduce the number of
employees in 2009. 

In the United States, most of our 53,509
employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of
employment contract or agreement.  At select business units, certain
highly specialized employees have been hired under employment contracts that
specify a term of employment and specify pay and other
benefits.  

As of December 31, 2008, there were
14,899 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by collective
bargaining agreements with various labor unions.  The United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents
12,262 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement that will
expire March 1, 2011.  The International Association of Machinists
represents 2,028 employees under labor agreements that expire on May 23, 2010,
and April 30, 2012.  

Outside the United States, the company
enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such
relationships are mandatory or customary.  The provisions of these
agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the
subject jurisdiction.  

Sales  

       Sales outside the United States were 67
percent of consolidated sales for 2008, 63 percent for 2007  ,   and 54 percent  for
2006. 

Page 10 

Environmental
Matters  

       The company is regulated by federal,
state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and
disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our
manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of
our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air
emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. Compliance with
these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures,
earnings or global competitive position.  

We are engaged in remedial activities at
a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state
laws.  When it is reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a
site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against
our earnings.  In formulating that estimate, we do not consider
amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or
others.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not
material and  is included in the line item  Accrued Expenses  in Statement
2    Consolidated Financial Position at December 31   of Exhibit 13.  

We cannot reasonably estimate costs at
sites in the very early stages of remediation.  Currently, we have a
few sites in the very early stages of remediation, and there is no more than a
remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual
site, or at all sites in the aggregate, will be required.  

Available
Information  

       The company files electronically with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form
10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders
as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and any other form
or report as required.  The public may read and copy any materials the
company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, N.E., Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
(800) SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site (  www.sec.gov  ) that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC. The company maintains an Internet site
(www.CAT.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed
or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge through our Internet site
(  www.CAT.com/secfilings  ) as soon as reasonably practicable
after filing with the SEC.  Copies of our board committee charters,
our board's Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct
and other corporate governance information are available on our Internet site
(  www.CAT.com/governance  ), or upon written request to the
Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams Street, Peoria, Illinois
61629-7310.  

Additional company information may
be obtained as follows:  

Current information
- -  

phone our Information Hotline -
      (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080 (outside U.S. or Canada)
      to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of
      Caterpillar's latest financial results and current outlook, or to request
      a copy of results by facsimile or
mail  

request, view, or download
      materials on-line or register for email alerts at   www.CAT.com/materialsrequest  

Historical information
- -  

view/download on-line at
        www.CAT.com/historical  

Page 11 

Item
      1A .  Risk
    Factors.     

The statements in
this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be
considered carefully in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.  In addition,
these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The discussion and analysis
contained in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations and other items in this Form 10-K is forward-looking and
involves uncertainties that could significantly impact results.  From
time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we
issue to the public or in the form of oral presentation to the
public.  Forward-looking statements give current expectations or
forecasts of future events about the company.  You can identify these
statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by
the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "will
be," "should,"  plan,   project,   intend,   could  and similar words or
expressions that identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of
Caterpillar. 

In particular,
these forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions,
prospective products, products  approvals, future performance or results of
current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates,
foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, economic conditions,
potential returns, financial condition and financial results. The statements are
based on assumptions or on known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Although we
believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, we cannot guarantee the
realization of these statements. Achievement of future results is subject to
risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or
unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove
inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or
those anticipated, estimated or projected. Uncertainties include factors that
affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the company and
the markets it serves. 

The company
undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You may, however,
consult any future related disclosures we make on our Form 10-Q or any Form 8-K
report to the SEC. 

The following is a
cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe
are significant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the
aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from
expected or past results. You should note it is impossible to predict or
identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the
following factors to be a complete discussion of risks and
uncertainties. 

Changes in Government
Monetary and Fiscal Policies  

      Most countries have
established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic
activities, generally by adjusting interest rates.  Interest rate
changes affect overall economic growth, which alter demand for residential and
nonresidential structures, energy and mined products, which in turn affect sales
of our products that serve these activities.  Also, interest rates
affect customers  abilities to finance machine purchases and can change the
optimal time to keep machines in a fleet.  Our outlooks typically
include assumptions about interest rates in a number of
countries.  Interest rates higher than those assumptions could result
in lower sales than anticipated. 

The ongoing
worldwide financial and credit crisis reduced the availability of liquidity to
fund investments in many markets that we serve. The central banks and other
policy arms of many countries have implemented various actions to restore
liquidity and increase the availability of credit. The effectiveness of these
and related government actions is uncertain and could have a material impact on
the customers and markets we serve and our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Government policies on taxes and spending affect our
businesses.  Throughout the world, government spending finances much
infrastructure development, such as highways, airports, sewer and water systems
and dams.  Tax regulations determine depreciation lives and the amount
of money users can retain, both of which influence investment
decisions.  Developments more unfavorable than anticipated, such as
declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public spending or
increases in taxes, could negatively impact our results. 

Government can also
impact international trade and investment through a variety of policies, such as
import quotas, inspections, capital controls or tariffs.  Developments
worse than anticipated in the outlook, which could include lower import quotas,
more detailed inspections or higher tariffs, could negatively impact our
business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Page 12 

Environmental
Regulations  

      Our facilities,
operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws
and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air,
discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
treatment and disposal of general, non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials.
While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these
environmental laws and regulations, we cannot ensure that we will not be
adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or
subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and regulations or those
that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 

Particularly, our
engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing
exhaust emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state
regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other regulatory agencies around the world.
For instance, governments may set new emissions standards that could impact our
products and operations in ways that are difficult to anticipate with accuracy.
Thus, significant changes in standards, or the adoption of new standards, have
the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations,
financial condition and competitive position. 

The EPA has adopted
new and more stringent emission standards, including Tier 4 nonroad diesel
emission requirements applicable to the majority of our nonroad machinery and
engine products commencing in 2011.  We previously announced our
intent to make our nonroad engines compliant with the new emission standards,
including the Tier 4 emission requirements, by the stated deadline. Our strategy
for compliance includes using certain technology with state of art integrated
systems, as well as using the flexibility provided by the
regulations. 

Although we are
executing comprehensive plans designed to meet Tier 4 emissions requirements,
these plans are subject to many variables, including the timing of our Tier 4
engine development and new machine product introduction.  If we are
unable to meet our plans as projected, it could delay or inhibit our ability to
continue placing certain products on the market, which could negatively impact
our financial results and competitive position. 

Credit and Equity Market
Volatility, Changes in General Economic Conditions and Economic Conditions of
Industries or Markets We Serve  

      Our results of
operations are materially affected by the conditions in the global economy
generally and in the global capital markets. The current global financial
crisis, which began in 2007, has deteriorated further and has caused extreme
volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets, principally in the
U.S., Europe and Japan. In some cases, the markets have decreased availability
of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers and customers. 

Although we
generally generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses, fund
our capital expenditures, buy back stock, pay dividends and fund our employee
retirement benefit programs, our ability to continue to meet these cash
requirements over the long-term will require substantial liquidity and access to
sources of funds, including capital and credit markets. Changes in global
economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic
activity in many of the markets that we serve, and the success of plans to
manage cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business
may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from
operations.  Continuing market volatility, changes in counterparty
credit risk, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and
general economic conditions may also adversely impact the ability of the company
to access capital and credit markets to fund operating
needs.  Inability to access capital and credit markets may have an
adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and
competitive position. 

In addition, due to
the decreased availability of, and the related high cost in accessing, liquidity
and credit in this current volatile credit and capital market, we may, in a bid
to conserve cash for operations, undertake acquisitions that would be financed
in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity
securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could result in a
decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other
leverage measures. We cannot guarantee any such acquisition financing would be
available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to
undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked
securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of
the holders of our common shares. 

Page 13 

The energy and
mining industries are major users of our machines and
engines.  Decisions to purchase our machines and engines are dependent
upon performance of these industries. If demand or output in these industries
increases, the demand for our products would likely
increase.  Likewise, if demand or output in these industries declines,
the demand for our products would likely decrease. Prices of commodities in
these industries are frequently volatile and change in response to general
economic conditions, economic growth, commodity inventories and any disruptions
in production.  We assume certain prices for key commodities in
preparing our outlooks.  Commodity prices lower than those assumed
have the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition. 

The rates of
infrastructure spending, housing starts and commercial construction, play a
significant role in our results.  Our products are an integral
component of these activities, and as these activities increase or decrease
inside or outside of the U.S., demand for our products may be significantly
impacted, which could negatively impact our results. 

Residential housing
starts have been declining in the U.S. since early 2006 and housing permits in
Europe have declined since late 2006. The situation has worsened with the
deterioration in mortgage and real estate markets and has negatively impacted
our sales in North America and Europe. These downturns could continue if current
levels of volatility and uncertainty in the global capital and credit markets
persist or worsen.  Although the U.S. Government has enacted the
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA) and governments of many countries,
including countries in Europe, Japan and Australia, have adopted similar
initiatives to help restore viability in these markets and the economy
generally, there is no assurance that the measures stipulated in the EESA and
other actions of the U.S. Government or the initiatives of other governments for
the purpose of stabilizing the mortgage, real estates and financial markets will
achieve the intended effect. 

The growth in the emerging markets (i.e.
Africa, Asia/Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East and Russia) have positively
impacted our sales and revenues and accounted for a significant portion of our
2008 sales and revenues. However, countries in emerging markets are beginning to
experience slowing growth due to the impact of the global economic downturn. As
a result, the volume of capital and infrastructure projects has declined and
some governments are cutting spending on capital projects, including
construction and infrastructure. If this trend continues or worsens, our sales
in the emerging markets could be adversely impacted, which could have a material
negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

Changes in Price and
Significant Shortages of Component Products  

      We are a
significant user of steel and many commodities required for the manufacture of
our products.  As a result, increases in the prices of such
commodities likely would increase costs more than expected, negatively impacting
our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We rely on
suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the
manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or
decreased availability of such components or commodities could have an adverse
affect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our
operating costs. We believe our source of supply of raw materials will be
generally sufficient for our needs in the foreseeable future. However, our
business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively
impacted should the supply turn out to be insufficient for our
operations. 

In addition, the
current general global economic downturn and the volatility in the credit and
capital markets have caused a significant decline in sales and revenues and
limited liquidity for many businesses. If these conditions continue or worsen,
many of our suppliers  financial viability could be adversely impacted. As a
result, their ability to continue supplying component products for the
manufacture of our products could be significantly undermined, which, in turn,
could negatively impact our ability to meet our customers  demand for our
products and our business, results of operations and financial
condition. 

Currency
Fluctuations  

      The reporting
currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets,
liabilities, expenses and revenues, are denominated in currencies other than the
U.S. dollar. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate
those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the
applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of
the U.S. dollar vis- -vis other currencies will affect the amount of these items
in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in
their original currency. This could have a significant impact on our results of
operations and financial condition if such increase or decrease in the value of
the U.S. dollar is substantial. 

Page 14 

Dealer/Original Equipment
Manufacturers Sourcing Practices  

      We sell finished
products through an independent dealer network and directly to
OEMs.  Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing
operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future
needs.  Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or
negatively. 

In particular, some
of our engine customers are OEMs that manufacture or could in the future
manufacture engines for their own products.  Despite their engine
manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types
of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products and in
order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company
focus.  However, we cannot assure that these customers will continue
to outsource engine manufacture in the future. Increased levels of production
insourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as
shifts in our customers  business strategies, acquisition by a customer of
another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet
specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign
countries.  A significant reduction in the level of engine production
outsourcing from our OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and,
accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 

Impact of
Acquisitions  

      We may from time to
time engage in acquisitions involving some potential risks, including failure to
successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such
acquisitions.  For example, with any past or future acquisitions,
there is the possibility that: 

The business
      culture of the acquired business may not match well with our
      culture; 

Technological
      and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not
      occur as expected; 

The company
      may acquire or assume unexpected
liabilities; 

Unforeseen
      difficulties may arise in integrating operations and
    systems; 

The company
      may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired
      business; 

Higher than
      expected finance costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade,
      environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any
      jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations;
      and 

The company
      may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer
      bases. 

Failure to continue
implementing the company s acquisition strategy, including successfully
integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. 

In addition, due to
the decreased availability of, and the related high cost in accessing, liquidity
and credit in this current volatile credit and capital market, we may, in a bid
to conserve cash for operations, undertake acquisitions that would be financed
in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity
securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could result in a
decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other
leverage measures. We cannot guarantee any such acquisition financing would be
available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to
undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked
securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of
the holders of our common shares. 

Competition  

      We operate in a
highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of the
company's share of industry sales predicated on our ability to compete with
others in the marketplace.  The company competes on the basis of
product performance, customer service, quality and price. There can be no
assurance that our product will be able to compete successfully with these other
companies. Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive
pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or
manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively or
an unexpected buildup in competitors' new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets,
leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used
equipment prices. 

Page 15 

The environment
remains competitive from a pricing standpoint. Our sales outlook assumes certain
price increases that we announce from time to time will hold in the
marketplace.   Changes in market acceptance of price increases,
changes in market requirements for price discounts or changes in our
competitors  behavior could have a material impact on the company s business,
results of operations and financial condition. 

In addition, our
results and ability to compete may be impacted positively or negatively by
changes in the sales mix.  Our outlook assumes a certain geographic
mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales.  If actual results
vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could
be negatively impacted. 

Changes in Accounting
Standards  

      Our financial
statements are subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP), which are periodically revised and/or
expanded.  Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new
or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies,
including the Financial Accounting Standards Board.  Market conditions
have prompted accounting standard setters to issue new guidance which further
interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial
instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards
expanding disclosures.  The impact of accounting pronouncements that
have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and
quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.  An assessment of
proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change
through the exposure process and, therefore, their effects on our financial
statements cannot be meaningfully assessed.  It is possible that
future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current
accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and
that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition. 

Litigation and
Contingency  

      We face an inherent
business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits. We are
involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty
and environmental claims and lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in
and outside of the ordinary course of our business. Although it is not possible
to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit, we believe
these lawsuits and claims will not individually or in the aggregate have a
material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
However, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of
lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. In
addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims,
we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future,
if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any
such claims. 

As required by
GAAP, we establish reserves based on our assessment of such
contingencies.  Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may
affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a
reserve, requiring us to make additional material payments, which could result
in an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Risks to Global
Operations  

      Our global
operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the
U.S. and internationally and countries with political and economic instability,
each of which exposes our business operations to certain political and economic
risks inherent in operating globally. These risks include: 

changes in
      regulations; 

imposition of
      currency restrictions and other
restraints; 

imposition of
      burdensome tariffs and quotas; 

national and
      international conflict, including terrorist acts;
  and 

economic
      downturns, political instability and war or civil unrest may severely
      disrupt economic activity in affected
countries. 

Page 16 

As a normal practice, we do not assume
such events in our outlooks unless they are already happening when the outlook
is issued.  As a result, the occurrence of one or more of these events
has the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

Risk Due to Funding
Obligations Under Pension Plans  

      We maintain certain
defined benefit pension plans for our employees, which impose on us certain
payment obligations towards the funding of the plans. In determining our future
payment obligations under the plans, we assume certain rates of return on the
plan assets and growth rates of certain costs. An adverse significant change in
the credit and capital market conditions could result in actual rates of return
and growth rates being materially lower than projected.  This could
significantly increase our payment obligations under the plans, require us to
take a significant charge on our balance sheet and, as a result, adversely
affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Risks Due to Debt
Covenants  

      We maintain a
number of credit facilities to support (i) our commercial paper program, and
(ii) general corporate purposes (Facilities) and have issued debt securities to
manage liquidity and fund operations (Debt Securities).  The
agreements relating to a number of the Facilities and the Debt Securities
contain certain restrictive covenants, including limits on subsidiary debt, the
incurrence of liens, minimum levels of consolidated net worth, minimum interest
coverage ratios and restrictions on consolidation and merger. 

Although we do not
believe any of these covenants presently materially restrict our operations, a
breach of one or more of the covenants could result in material adverse  consequences  that could
negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Such adverse consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding
under certain of the Facilities, triggering of an obligation to redeem certain
Debt Securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders,
refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the
Facilities or new Facilities, or the lowering or modification of our credit
ratings or those of one or more of our subsidiaries. 

We recently
received the consent of lenders under certain credit facilities to our lower
consolidated net worth of $6.087 billion as of December 31, 2008 and to Cat
Financial s lower quarterly interest coverage ratio of 0.97 as of December 31,
2008.  In consideration of these consents, we agreed to increase the
upper range of interest rates applicable to certain amounts that may be drawn by
us and Cat Financial under certain credit facilities by approximately 1.00 to
1.50 percentage points and by Cat Financial under certain of its other
facilities by approximately 1.00 percentage point. 

Risks to Financial Services
Line of Business  

      Inherent in the
operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its
customers.  The creditworthiness of each customer, and the rate of
delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly
impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, relevant industry
and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and
expertise of the customer's management team, commodity prices, political events
and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. 

Changes in interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions could
have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash
flows.  Because a significant amount of loans made by Cat Financial
are made at fixed interest rates, our business is subject to fluctuations in
interest rates.  Changes in market interest rates may influence our
financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of
derivative contracts and could reduce our earnings and cash flow.  In
addition, since Cat Financial makes a significant amount of loans in currencies
other than the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates
could also reduce our earnings and cash flow.  Cat Financial also
relies on a number of diversified global debt markets and funding programs to
provide liquidity for its global operations, including commercial paper, medium
term notes, retail notes, variable denomination floating rate demand notes,
asset-backed securitizations and bank loans.  Significant changes in
market liquidity conditions could impact Cat Financial s access to funding and
the associated funding costs and reduce its earnings and cash
flow.  Although Cat Financial manages interest rate, foreign currency
exchange rate and market liquidity risks through a variety of techniques,
including a match funding program, the selective use of derivatives and a
broadly diversified funding program, there can be no assurance that fluctuations
in interest rates, currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions will
not have a material adverse effect on its and our earnings and cash
flow.  If any of the variety of instruments and strategies Cat
Financial uses to hedge its exposure to these various types of risk is
ineffective, we may incur losses. With respect to Cat Financial s insurance and
investment management operations, changes in the equity and bond markets could
cause an impairment of the value of its investment portfolio, thus requiring a
negative adjustment to earnings. 

Page 17 

The current
difficult and volatile market conditions have adversely affected the financial
industry in which Cat Financial operates. Cat Financial is significant to our
operations and provides financing support to a significant share of our global
sales. The inability of Cat Financial to access funds to support its financing
activities to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Cat Financial s
liquidity and ongoing profitability are, in large part, dependent upon its
timely access to capital and the costs associated with raising funds in
different segments of the capital markets.  Cat Financial depends and
will continue to depend on its ability to access diversified funding
alternatives to meet future cash flow requirements and to continue to fund its
operations.  A large portion of Cat Financial's borrowings have been
issued in the medium term note and commercial paper markets and, although Cat
Financial has continued to have access to most of these markets, there can be no
assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing
for Cat Financial. If current levels of market disruption and volatility
continue or worsen, Cat Financial could face materially higher financing costs
and become unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business or
seek to repay medium term notes and commercial paper as it becomes due or to
meet its other liquidity needs by drawing upon contractually committed lending
agreements primarily provided by global banks and/or by seeking other funding
sources. However, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance
such agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient. The
extent of any impact on our ability to meet funding or liquidity needs will
depend on several factors, including our operating cash flow, the duration of
any market disruption, the effects of governmental programs such as the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation s (FDIC s) Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
(TLGP), credit conditions generally, the volatility of equity markets, our
credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing and other general
economic and business conditions. 

Should current
levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may also face
a number of other risks in connection with these events, including: 

Market
      developments that may affect customer confidence levels and may cause
      declines in credit applications and adverse changes in payment patterns,
      causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could impact
      our charge-offs and provision for credit
losses. 

The process
      Cat Financial uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure
      requires a high degree of management s judgment regarding numerous
      subjective qualitative factors, including forecasts of economic conditions
      and how economic predictors might impair the ability of its borrowers to
      repay their loans.  Ongoing financial market disruption and
      volatility may impact the accuracy of these
  judgments. 

Cat
      Financial s ability to engage in routine funding transactions or borrow
      from other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all could be
      adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other
      events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor
      expectations. 

Since our
      counterparties are primarily financial institutions, their ability to
      perform in accordance with any of our underlying agreements could be
      adversely affected by market volatility and/or disruptions in the equity
      and credit markets. 

Page 18 

Government Programs Designed
to Support Credit Markets  

      A number of
governmental programs designed to support the global financial system were
implemented in 2008.  While we generally support these programs, there
have been unintended consequences of the programs that have impacted Cat
Financial and other companies that do not qualify to participate in
them.  As an example, in the United States, some of Cat
Financial's competitors in the banking and manufacturing sectors have
participated in the TLGP.  The TLGP was created to strengthen
confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by providing a
government guaranty of certain qualifying newly issued senior unsecured debt of
banks, thrifts and certain holding companies.  Despite the FDIC s
intent to support the banking system through the TLGP, some of Cat
Financial's competitors in the manufacturing sector have been permitted to
participate in this program and issue senior unsecured debt with governmental
guarantees at rates significantly below those capable of being offered by Cat
Financial.  Likewise, Cat Financial's ability to issue debt
rates that are competitive with those offered by its banking competitors
has been further disadvantaged and accentuated at times by their participation
in governmental programs such as the TLGP.  The TLGP, as well as other
governmental initiatives, have effectively created below-market government
subsidized financing for such competitors.  This program and other
similar governmental programs in various jurisdictions have disadvantaged
Cat Financial and other non-qualifying companies.  The TLGP is
currently set to expire on June 30, 2009, although the FDIC has indicated that
it plans to extend the program at least through October 31,
2009.  Other governmental programs may not have clear expiration
dates.  Should the TLGP or any other governmental program that
disadvantages Cat Financial be extended or expanded by its respective
government, Cat Financial could continue to be negatively impacted in its
ability to issue senior unsecured debt at rates that are comparable to those
offered by its competition. 

Market Acceptance of
Products  

      Our business relies
on continued global demand for our brands and products.  To achieve
business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers,
OEMs and customers.  This is dependent on a number of factors
including our ability to manage and maintain key dealer relationships and our
ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing
programs.  In addition, our continued success in selling products that
appeal to our customers is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to
both products and operations, and on the availability and effectiveness of legal
protection for our innovation.  Failure to continue to deliver quality
and competitive products to the marketplace, or to predict market demands for,
or gain market acceptance of, our products, could have material impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. 

In addition, the
global demand for our products generally depends on our customers  ability to
pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on their access to funds. Due to
global economic conditions many of our customers may be experiencing increased
difficulty in generating funds from operations.  Further, due to
capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty, many financial
institutions have revised their lending standards, thereby decreasing access to
capital. If the capital and credit market volatility continues or worsens, the
liquidity of our customers may decline which, in turn, would reduce their
ability to purchase our products. 

Natural
Disasters  

      The occurrence of
one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes and
other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in a country in which we operate or
in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and
financial performance.  Such events could result in physical damage to
and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities
or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of
component products from some local and overseas suppliers, disruption in the
transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of
our products to our distribution centers. 

Page 19 

Not
applicable. 

Item
      2 .  Properties.    

General
Information  

Caterpillar's operations are highly
integrated.  Although the majority of our plants are involved
primarily in the production of either machines or engines, several plants are
involved in the manufacturing of both.  In addition, several plants
are involved in the manufacturing of components which are used in the assembly
of both machines and engines.  Caterpillar's parts distribution
centers are involved in the storage and distribution of parts for machines and
engines.  Also, the research and development activities carried on at
our Technical Center involve both machines and engines.  

Page 20 

Properties we own are believed to be
generally well maintained and adequate for present use.  Through
planned capital expenditures, we expect these properties to remain adequate for
future needs.  Properties we lease are covered by leases expiring over
terms of generally one to ten years.  We anticipate no difficulty in
retaining occupancy of any leased facilities, either by renewing leases prior to
expiration or by replacing them with equivalent leased
facilities.  

Headquarters
and Other Key Offices  

       Our corporate headquarters are in
Peoria, Illinois.  Additional marketing and operating headquarters are
located both inside and outside the United States including Miami, Florida, San
Diego, California, Geneva, Switzerland, Beijing, People's Republic of China,
Singapore,  Piracicaba,  Brazil and Tokyo, Japan.  The
Financial Products Division is headquartered in leased offices located in
Nashville, Tennessee.  

Parts
Distribution Centers  

       Distribution of our parts is conducted
from parts distribution centers inside and outside the United States. Cat
Logistics distributes other companies' products, utilizing certain of our
distribution facilities as well as other non-Caterpillar facilities located both
inside and outside the United States.  We also own or lease other
storage facilities that support distribution activities.  

Technical
Center, Training Centers, Demonstration Areas, and Proving
Grounds  

       We own a Technical Center located in
Mossville, Illinois, and various other technical and training centers,
demonstration areas and proving grounds located both inside and outside the
United States.  

Manufacturing,
Remanufacturing, and Overhaul  

       Manufacturing, remanufacturing and
overhaul of our products are conducted primarily at the following
locations.  These facilities are believed to be suitable for their
intended purposes with adequate capacities for current and projected needs for
existing products.  

Page 21 

Inside
      the U.S. 

Alabama 

Lawrence 

Ohio 

Montreal 

Japan 

Albertville 

Wamego 

Dayton 1  

Surrey 

Akashi 

Montgomery 

Kentucky 

Pennsylvania 

Toronto 

Sagamihara 

Arkansas 

Ashland 

Chambersburg 

Winnipeg 

Malaysia 

Little
      Rock 

Corbin 

Steelton 

England 

Kuala
      Lumpur 1  

California 

Danville 

South
      Carolina 

Barwell 

Mexico 

Gardena 

Decoursey 

Greenville 

Desford 

Monterrey 

Mohave 

Louisville 

Jackson 

Ferndown 

Nuevo
      Laredo 

Rocklin 

Mayfield 

Lexington 

Peterborough 

Reynosa 

San
      Diego 

Raceland 

Newberry 

Peterlee 

Saltillo 

Colorado 

Louisiana 

Summerville 

Rushden 

Santa
      Catarina 

Pueblo 

New
      Orleans 

Sumter 

Shrewsbury 

Tijuana 

Florida 

Michigan 

Tennessee 

Skinningrove 

Torreon 

Jacksonville 

Menominee 

Dyersburg 

Slough 

Veracruz 

Wildwood 

Minnesota 

Knoxville 

Stafford 

The
      Netherlands 

Georgia 

Minneapolis 

Texas 

Stockton 

Almere 

Alpharetta 

New
      Ulm 

Amarillo 

Wimborne 

s'-Hertogenbosch 

Griffin 

Owatonna 

Channelview 

Wolverhampton 

Nigeria 

Jefferson 

Mississippi 

De
      Soto 

France 

Port
      Harcourt 2  

LaGrange 

Corinth 

Mabank 

Arras 

Northern
      Ireland 

Patterson 

Oxford 

San
      Antonio 

Chaumont 

Belfast 

Thomasville 

Prentiss
      County 

Sherman 

Echirolles 

Larne 

Toccoa 

Missouri 

Waco 

Grenoble 

People s
      Republic 

Illinois 

Boonville 

Waskom 

Rantigny 

of
      China 

Alorton 

Kansas
      City 

Virginia 

Germany 

Erliban 1  

Aurora 

West
      Plains 

Petersburg 

Kiel 

Foshan 

Champaign 1  

Montana 

Roanoke 

Rostock 

Qingzhou 2  

Chicago 

Laurel 

Wisconsin 

Hungary 

Shanghai 

Decatur 

Nebraska 

Hudson 

G d ll  

Suzhou 

Dixon 

Alliance 

Prentice 

India 

Tianjin 2  

East
      Peoria 

Gering 

Wyoming 

Hosur 

Wuxi 

Granite
      City 

Lincoln 

Bill 

Pondicherry 

Xuzhou 2  

Joliet 

Northport 

Laramie 

Thiruvallur 

Poland 

Mapleton 

Sidney 

Rock
      Springs 

Indonesia 

Janow
      Lubelski 

Mossville 

South
      Morrill 

Outside
      the U.S. 

Bandung 2  

Radom 1  

Peoria 

Nevada 

Australia 

Jakarta 

Sosnowiec 

Pontiac 

Sparks 

Burnie 

Italy 

Russia 

Rochelle 

North
      Carolina 

Melbourne 

Anagni 

Tosno 

Sterling 

Clayton 

Wivenhoe 

Atessa 

South
      Africa 

Woodridge 1  

Franklin 

Belgium 

Bazzano 

Boksburg 

Indiana 

Goldsboro 

Gosselies 

Fano 

Sweden 

Charlestown 

Morganton 

Brazil 

Frosinone 

Soderhamn 

East
      Chicago 

Sanford 

Curitiba 

Jesi 

Switzerland 

Franklin 

Zebulon 

Diadema 

Marignano 

Riazzino 

Lafayette 

North
      Dakota 

Hortolandia 

Milan 

Tunisia 

Kansas 

West
      Fargo 

Piracicaba 

Minerbio 

Sfax 

Fort
      Scott 

Canada 

Edmonton 

1  

Facility of
      affiliated company (50 percent or less owned) 

2  

Facility of
      partially owned subsidiary (more than 50 percent, less than 100
      percent) 

Page 22 

Item
      3 .  Legal
      Proceedings.       

We have disclosed certain individual
legal proceedings in this filing.  Additionally, we are involved in
other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The
most prevalent  of these unresolved actions  involve disputes related to product
design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and
welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues or intellectual property
rights.   Although it is not possible to predict with certainty
the outcome of these unresolved legal actions we believe that these actions will
not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
operations.  

On May 14, 2007,
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of Violation to
Caterpillar Inc., alleging various violations of Clean Air Act Sections 203, 206
and 207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar violated such sections by
shipping engines and catalytic converter after-treatment devices separately,
introducing into commerce a number of uncertified and/or misbuilt engines and
failing to timely report emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is
currently engaging in negotiations with EPA to resolve these issues, but we are
unable at this time to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and, based
upon initial discussions and although penalties could potentially exceed
$100,000, management does not believe that this issue will have a material
adverse impact on our financial position. 

On September 29,
2004, Kruse Technology Partnership (Kruse) filed a lawsuit against Caterpillar
in the United States District Court for the Central District of California
alleging that certain Caterpillar engines built from October 2002 to the present
infringe upon certain claims of three of Kruse's patents on engine fuel
injection timing and combustion strategies.  Caterpillar denied
Kruse's allegations and filed a counterclaim seeking a declaration from the
court that Caterpillar is not infringing upon Kruse's patents and that the
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  On December 20, 2008,
Caterpillar and Kruse entered into a confidential settlement agreement whereby
all pending claims with regard to the lawsuit were settled.  The
settlement, which did not have a material impact on our financial statements,
included an agreement by both parties to not bring any future actions in the
matter.  Subsequent to the agreement, the court entered an order
dismissing the case. 

Item
      4 .   Submission
      of Matters to a Vote  of Security
       Holders.      

Not
applicable. 

PART
      II      

Item
      5 .  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related
      Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities.     

Stock
Information  

Information required by Item 5 regarding
our stock is incorporated by reference from the Supplemental Stockholder
Information section of Exhibit 13 under  Listing Information,   Price Ranges, 
 Number of Stockholders  and  Performance Graph  and from the Management s
Discussion and Analysis section of Exhibit 13 under  Dividends paid per common
share.   

Page 23 

Sale of
Unregistered Securities  

Non-U.S.
Employee Stock Purchase Plans  

We have 30 employee stock purchase plans
administered outside the United States for our foreign employees.  As
of December 31, 2008, those plans had approximately 12,200 active participants
in the aggregate.  During the fourth quarter of 2008, approximately
82,000 shares of Caterpillar common stock or foreign denominated equivalents
were distributed under the plans.  Participants in some foreign plans
have the option of receiving non-U.S. share certificates (foreign-denominated
equivalents) in lieu of U.S. shares of Caterpillar common stock upon withdrawal
from the plan.  These equivalent certificates are tradable only on the
local stock market and are included in our determination of shares
outstanding.  

Distributions of Caterpillar stock under
the plans are exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (Act)
pursuant to 17 CFR 230.903 of the Act.  

Purchases of
Securities  

Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities 

Other Purchases of Equity
Securities 

Item
      6 .  Selected   Financial
      Data.       

Information required by Item 6 is
incorporated by reference from the "Five-year Financial Summary" and
"Management s Discussion and Analysis  of Exhibit 13.  

Page 24 

Item 7 .  Management's Discussion and  Analysis 
      of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations.    

Information
required by Item 7 is incorporated by reference from the  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of
Exhibit 13. 

This Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in
conjunction with our discussion of cautionary statements and significant risks
to the company s business under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form
10-K.  

Item 7A .  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
      About Market
Risk.  

Information required by Item 7A appears
in Note 1    Operations and summary of significant accounting policies,  Note 3
     Derivative financial instruments and risk management,  Note
19    Fair values disclosures  and Note 20    Concentration of credit risk  of
Exhibit 13.  Other information required by Item 7A is incorporated by
reference from  Management s Discussion and Analysis  of Exhibit
13.  

Item 8 .  Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data.  

Information required by Item 8 is
incorporated by reference from the  Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm  and from the  Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  of Exhibit 13.  Other information required by
Item 8 is included in "Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges" filed
as Exhibit 12 to this Form 10-K.  

Item 9 . Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
      Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure.  

Not
Applicable.  

Item 9A .  Controls and
      Procedures.   

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures  

       Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, we conducted an
evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures; as such term is defined
under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).  Based on this evaluation, our
chief executive officer and our chief financial officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period
covered by this annual report.  

Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

       The management of Caterpillar is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.  

Page 25 

Management assessed the effectiveness of
the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.
In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  . Based
on this assessment management concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, the
company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those
criteria.  

Management has excluded Caterpillar
Japan Ltd. from our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2008 because Caterpillar Japan Ltd. was consolidated by the
company on August 1, 2008.  Caterpillar Japan Ltd. is a 67
percent owned subsidiary of the company with total assets and total
revenues represent five percent and less than one percent, respectively, of the
related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2008.  Prior to consolidation, the company accounted for
its investment in this entity under the equity method.  

The effectiveness of the company's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm. The report appears under the  Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm  of Exhibit 13 . 

Changes
in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

       During
the last fiscal quarter, there has been no significant change in the company's
internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over
financial reporting.  

Item 9B . Other
      Information.     

Not Applicable.  

PART
      III     

Item 10 .  Directors, Executive Officers and
      Corporate
  Governance.  

Identification
of Directors and Business Experience  

       Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Identification
of Executive Officers and Business Experience  

       Information required by this Item
appears in Item 1C of this Form 10-K.  

Family
Relationships  

       There are no family relationships
between the officers and directors of the company.  All officers serve
at the pleasure of the board of directors and are elected annually at a meeting
of the board.  

Legal
Proceedings Involving Officers and Directors  

       Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Audit
Committee Financial Expert  

       Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Identification
of Audit Committee  

       Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Stockholder
Recommendation of Board Nominees  

       Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act  

       Information required by this Item
relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
is incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Page 26 

Code of
Ethics  

       Our Worldwide Code of Conduct (Code),
first published in 1974 and most recently amended in 2005, sets a high standard
for honesty and ethical behavior by every employee, including the principal
executive officer, principal financial officer, controller and principal
accounting officer.  The Code is posted on our website at   www.CAT.com/governance   and is incorporated by reference as
Exhibit 14 to this Form 10-K.  To obtain a copy of the Code at no
charge, submit a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams
Street, Peoria, Illinois 61629-7310.   We will post on our
website any required amendments to or waivers granted under our Code pursuant to
SEC or New York Stock Exchange disclosure rules. 

Item 11 .  Executive
      Compensation.    

Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Item
      12 .  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management and Related Stockholder
      Matters.  

Information required by this Item
relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Information
required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans is included in the following table: 

Item
      13 .  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
      Director
      Independence.  

Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

Item
      14 .  Principal Accountant Fees and
      Services.  

Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2009 Proxy Statement.   

Page 27 

PART
      IV     

Item
      15 .  Exhibits and Financial Statement
      Schedules.    

(a)    
             
                The following
      documents are incorporated by reference from Exhibit
  13: 

1.  Financial
Statements:  

Report of Independent Registered
      Public Accounting Firm  

Statement 1
      -  Consolidated Results of
  Operations  

Statement 2
      -  Consolidated Financial
  Position  

Statement 3 -  Changes
      in Consolidated Stockholders'
Equity  

Statement 4
      -  Consolidated Statement of Cash
  Flow  

Notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements  

2.  Financial Statement
Schedules:  

All
      schedules are omitted because the required information is shown in the
      financial statements or the notes thereto incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 13 or considered to be
  immaterial.  

Page 28 

10.2  

Caterpillar
      Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended and restated through fifth
      amendment. 

10.3 

Supplemental
      Pension Benefit Plan, as amended and restated January 2003 (incorporated
      by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the 2004 Form 10-K). 

10.4 

Supplemental
      Employees' Investment Plan, as amended and restated through December 1,
      2002  (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 10.4 to  the 2002 Form
  10-K). 

10.5 

Caterpillar
      Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, effective as of January 1,
      2002  (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 10.5 to  the 2002 Form
  10-K). 

10.6 

Directors'
      Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated through January 1,
      2005 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to the 2006 Form
      10-K). 

10.7  

Directors'
      Charitable Award Program, as amended and restated through April 1,
      2008. 

10.8 

Deferred
      Employees' Investment Plan, as amended and restated through February 16,
      2005 (incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.8 to the 2005 Form
      10-K). 

10.9 

Five-Year
      Credit Agreement dated September 21, 2006 (2006 Five-Year Credit
      Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services
      Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c. and Caterpillar
      Finance Corporation, the Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of
      Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Citibank International plc, ABN AMRO Bank
      N.V., Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, J.P. Morgan Securities,
      Inc., Soci t  G n rale and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed September 26,
      2006). 

10.10 

Japan Local
      Currency Addendum to the 2006 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Japan
      Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A. and The Bank of
      Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.2 to
      Form 8-K filed September 26, 2006). 

10.11 

Local
      Currency Addendum to the 2006 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c.,
      the Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A.,  and
      Citibank International plc (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.3 to
      Form 8-K filed September 26, 2006). 

10.12 

Amendment No.
      1 to the 2006 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar Inc.,
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation and Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c., the Banks, Japan
      Local Currency Banks and Local Currency Banks named therein, The Bank of
      Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Citibank International plc and Citibank, N.A.
      (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-Q filed October
      31, 2008). 

10.13 

Omnibus
      Amendment and Waiver Agreement (Amendment No. 2) to the 2006 Five-Year
      Credit Agreement among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services
      Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, Caterpillar International
      Finance p.l.c., the Banks and Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank
      International plc and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 10.13 to Form 10-Q filed October 31, 2008). 

10.14 

Amendment No.
      3 to the 2006 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar Inc.,
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation and Caterpillar International Finance Limited (f/k/a
      Caterpillar International Finance p.l.c.), the Banks, Japan Local Currency
      Banks and Local Currency Banks named therein, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
      UFJ, Ltd., Citibank International plc and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 99.4 to Form 8-K filed September 23,
      2008). 

10.15 

Five-Year
      Credit Agreement dated September 20, 2007 (2007 Five-Year Credit
      Agreement) among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services
      Corporation and Caterpillar Finance Corporation, certain financial
      institutions named therein, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
      UFJ, Ltd., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC,
      J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Soci t  G n rale and Citigroup Global
      Markets Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K
      filed September 25, 2007). 

10.16 

Japan Local
      Currency Addendum to the 2007 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Japan
      Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A. and The Bank of
      Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.2 to
      Form 8-K filed September 25, 2007). 

10.17 

Amendment No.
      1 to the 2007 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar Inc.,
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation, the Banks and Japan Local Currency Banks named therein, The
      Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K filed September 23,
      2008). 

Page 29  

10.18 

364-Day
      Credit Agreement dated September 18, 2008 (2008 364-Day Credit Agreement)
      among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation,
      Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A.,
      The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Bank of
      America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Soci t 
      G n rale and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed September 23, 2008). 

10.19 

Japan Local
      Currency Addendum to the 2008 364-Day Credit Agreement among Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Japan
      Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A. and The Bank of
      Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.2 to
      Form 8-K filed September 23, 2008). 

10.20 

Amendment No.
      1 to the 2008 364-Day Credit Agreement among Caterpillar Inc., Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Banks
      and Japan Local Currency Banks named therein, The Bank of Tokyo -
      Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed January 26, 2009). 

10.21 

Amendment No.
      2 to the 2007 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar Inc.,
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation, the Banks and Japan Local Currency Banks named therein, The
      Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K filed January 26,
      2009). 

10.22 

Amendment No.
      4 to the 2006 Five-Year Credit Agreement among Caterpillar Inc.,
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Limited (f/k/a Caterpillar
      International Finance p.l.c.), the Banks, Japan Local Currency Banks and
      Local Currency Banks named therein, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ,
      Ltd., Citibank International plc and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K filed January 26,
      2009). 

10.23 

Amendment No.
      1 to 2007 Japan Local Currency Addendum among Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Limited (f/k/a
      Caterpillar international Finance p.l.c.), the Local Currency Banks named
      therein, Citibank International plc and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by
      reference from Exhibit 99.4 to Form 8-K filed January 26,
      2009). 

10.24 

Amendment No.
      1 to 2006 Japan Local Currency Addendum among Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, The Bank of
      Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by reference
      from Exhibit 99.5 to Form 8-K filed January 26, 2009). 

10.25 

Amendment No.
      1 to 2006 Local Currency Addendum among Caterpillar Financial Services
      Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Corporation, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
      UFJ, Ltd. and Citibank, N.A. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.6
      to Form 8-K filed January 26, 2009). 

11  

Computations
      of Earnings per Share. 

12  

Computation
      of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

13  

General and
      Financial Information for 2008 containing the information required by SEC
      Rule 14a-3 for an annual report to security holders. 

14 

Caterpillar
      Worldwide Code of Conduct (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 14 to
      the 2005 Form 10-K). 

21  

Subsidiaries
      and Affiliates of the Registrant. 

23  

Consent of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31.1  

Certification
      of James W. Owens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar
      Inc., as required pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
      of 2002. 

31.2  

Certification
      of David B. Burritt, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
      Caterpillar Inc., as required pursuant to Section 302 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32  

Certification
      of James W. Owens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar
      Inc. and David B. Burritt, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
      Caterpillar Inc., as required pursuant to Section 906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

99.1  

Annual CEO
      certification to the New York Stock Exchange for fiscal year
      2008. 

Page 30 

Form 10-K  

                   SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
      of 1934, the company has duly caused this report to be signed on its
      behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

CATERPILLAR
      INC. 

                  (Registrant) 

February 20,
      2009 

By: 

/s/James B. Buda    

James B.
      B u da,  Secretary  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
      has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
      and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

February 20,
      2009  

/s/James
      W. Owens  

Chairman of the Board,
      Director  

                 and Chief Executive
      Officer  

(James W.
      Owens)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/Richard
      P. Lavin 

Group
    President  

(Richard P.
      Lavin)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/Stuart
      L. Levenick  

Group
    President  

(Stuart L.
      Levenick)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/
      Douglas R. Oberhelman 

Group
    President  

(Douglas R.
      Oberhelman)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/Edward
      J. Rapp 

Group
    President  

(Edward J.
      Rapp)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/Gerard
      R. Vittecoq 

Group
    President  

(Gerard R.
      Vittecoq)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/Steven
      H. Wunning 

Group
    President  

(Steven
      H.  Wunning )  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/David
      B. Burritt 

Vice President and Chief Financial
      Officer  

(David B.
      Burritt)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/Bradley
      M. Halverson   

Controller  

(Bradley M.
      Halverson)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/Jananne A.
      Copeland   

(Jananne A.
      Copeland)  

Chief Accounting
      Officer  

Page 31 

Page 32  

<EX-10.1>
 2
 ex_10-1.htm
 1996 STOCK OPTION AND LTIP

ex_10-1.htm 

Exhibit
10.1 

Caterpillar
Inc. 

1996
Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan 

(Amended and
Restated through Fourth Amendment) 

Section
1.  Purpose 

The Caterpillar
Inc. 1996 Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan ( Plan ) is designed to
attract and retain outstanding individuals as non-employee directors, officers
and key employees of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the
 Company ), and to furnish incentives to such individuals through awards based
upon the performance of the Company and its stock.  To this end, the
Plan provides for grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights
( SARs ) ,  restricted
stock, restricted stock units, and performance awards, or combinations thereof,
to non-employee directors, officers and other key employees of the Company, on
the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Plan. 

Section
2.  Shares Subject to the Plan 

2.1            Shares Reserved for
Issuance  

Sixty-Four Million
shares of Company common stock ( Shares ) shall be available for issuance under
the Plan either from authorized but unissued Shares or from Shares acquired by
the Company, including Shares purchased in the open market.  An
additional four million Shares authorized but unissued under prior Company stock
option plans shall be available for issuance under this Plan. 

2.2            Reacquired
Shares  

If Shares subject
to an award under the Plan are not acquired by participants, or Shares issued
under the Plan are reacquired by the Company, because of lapse, expiration, or
termination of an award, such Shares shall again become available for issuance
under the Plan.  Shares tendered upon exercise of an option by a Plan
participant may be added back and made available solely for future awards under
the Plan. 

2.3            Adjustments in Authorized
Shares  

In the event of any
corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the
shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger,
consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend,
stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of
stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares,
dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution
(other than normal cash dividends) to stockholders of the Company, or any
similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in its sole discretion,
in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants  rights under the
Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares
that may be issued under the Plan or under particular forms of awards, the
number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding awards, the option exercise
price or base price applicable to outstanding awards, the annual award limits,
the limits on awards set forth in Sections 5.1(a), 6.1(b) and 8.2, and other
value determinations applicable to outstanding awards. 

The Committee, in
its sole discretion, may also make appropriate adjustments in the terms of any
awards under the Plan related to such changes or distributions and to modify any
other terms of outstanding awards, including modifications of performance goals
and changes in the length of Performance Periods.  The determination
of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive
and binding on Participants under the Plan. 

Section
3.  Administration 

Unless otherwise
provided in the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to grant awards
under the Plan to non-employee directors, officers, and other key employees of
the Company. Except as limited by the express provisions of the Plan or by
resolutions adopted by the Board, the Committee also shall have the authority
and discretion to interpret the Plan, to establish and revise rules and
regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it
believes necessary or advisable for administration of the Plan, except to the
extent that such authority or discretion would cause an award to fail to qualify
as performance based compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) of the
Code. 

The Committee shall
be composed solely of members of the Board that satisfy applicable tax,
securities and stock exchange rules, and other requirements determined to be
necessary or advisable by the Board.  The Committee may delegate to
one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company, and/or its
Subsidiaries and Affiliates or to one or more agents or advisors such
administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or
any person to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one
or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the
Committee or such person may have under the Plan. 

Section
4.  Eligibility and Participation 

4.1            Eligibility  

Individuals
eligible to participate in this Plan include non-employee directors, officers,
and other key employees. 

4.2            Actual
Participation  

Subject to the
provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all
eligible officers and key Employees those to whom awards shall be
granted.  The Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, the
nature of any and all terms (as permissible by law) and the amount of each
award. Directors who are not employees shall only receive awards in accordance
with the terms set forth in this Plan. 

Section
5.  Stock Options 

5.1            Company
Employees  

(a)           Eligibility 

The Committee shall
determine Company officers and key employees to whom options shall be granted,
the timing of such grants, and the number of shares subject to the option;
provided that the maximum number of Shares upon which options may be granted to
any employee in any calendar year shall be 400,000.  All Options
granted under the Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement. 

(b)           Option
Exercise Price 

The exercise price
of each option shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of Shares
underlying the option at the time the option is granted.  The fair
market value for purposes of determining the exercise price shall be the mean
between the high and the low prices at which Shares are traded on the New York
Stock Exchange on the day the option is granted.  In the event this
method for determining fair market value is not practicable, fair market value
shall be determined by such other reasonable method as the Committee shall
select. 

(c)           Option
Exercise 

Options shall be
exercisable in such installments and during such periods as may be fixed by the
Committee at the time of grant.  Each Option granted to a Participant
shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant;
provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10 th )
anniversary date of its grant. 

Payment of the
exercise price shall be made upon exercise of all or a portion of any
option.  Such payment shall be in cash or by tendering Shares that
have been owned by the participant for at least six months having a fair market
value equal to 100% of the exercise price.  The fair market value of
Shares for this purpose shall be the mean between the high and low prices at
which Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of
exercise.  Upon exercise of an option, any applicable taxes the
Company is required to withhold shall be paid to the Company.  Shares
to be received upon exercise may be surrendered to satisfy withholding
obligations. 

(d)           Termination
of Employment 

The Committee may
require a period of continued employment before an option can be
exercised.  That period shall not be less than one year, except that
the Committee may permit a shorter period in the event of termination of
employment by retirement or death.  An exception to the one-year
period other than retirement or death is applicable only for the 2004 year
grant, of which the options may be exercised as of January 3, 2005. 

Termination of
employment with the Company shall terminate remaining rights under options then
held;  provided, however, that an option grant may provide that if
employment terminates after completion of a specific period, the option may be
exercised during a period of time after termination.  That period may
not exceed sixty months where termination of employment is caused by retirement
or death or sixty days where termination results from any other cause provided
that such period shall not extend beyond the original maximum term of the
option.  If death occurs after termination of employment but during
the period of time specified, such period may be extended to not more than
sixty-six months after retirement, or thirty-eight months after termination of
employment for any other cause provided that such period shall not extend beyond
the original maximum term of the option.  In the event of termination
within two years after a Change of Control as defined in Section 10.2 of the
Plan, options shall be exercisable for a period of sixty months following the
date of termination or for the maximum term of the option, whichever is
shorter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may change the
post-termination period of exercisability of an option provided that change does
not extend the original maximum term of the option. 

Notwithstanding the
foregoing or anything herein or in an award document to the contrary, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to accelerate the
vesting of non-tandem SARs at any time following the time of grant. 

(e)           Transferability
of Options 

(i)           Except
as otherwise permitted in Section 4.1(e)(ii), options shall not be transferable
other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a
qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act.  Options are exercisable during the
holder s lifetime only by the holder, unless the holder becomes incapacitated or
disabled, in which case the option may be exercised by the holder s authorized
representative.  A holder may file with the Company a written
designation of beneficiaries with the authority to exercise options in the event
of the holder s death. 

(ii)           Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 4.1(e)(i), and in addition to the permissible
transfers under that provision, options granted to persons at the level of Vice
President and above, as well as directors of the Company and persons retired
from those positions, may be transferred to any one or more  Permitted
Transferees,  as long as those options are not incentive stock options as
defined below and are fully vested.  Options granted to employees
below the level of Vice President may be transferred upon prior approval of the
Company s Director of Compensation and Benefits pursuant to the terms of this
section. 

(iii)           For
purposes of Section 4.1(e)(ii), the term "Permitted Transferees" shall mean the
members of the group that consists exclusively of the individual to whom the
option is granted, the spouse of the individual to whom the option is granted,
the lineal descendants of the individual to whom the option is granted, the
spouses of the lineal descendents to whom the option is granted, the lineal
descendants of any spouse or former spouse of the individual to whom the option
is granted, the spouses of the lineal descendants of any spouse or former spouse
of the individual to whom the option is granted, the estate (and any trust that
serves a distributive function of an estate) of the Permitted Transferee, all
trusts that an individual who is a Permitted Transferee can revoke and all
trusts, corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies and other
entities in which, directly or indirectly, but for the exercise of a power of
appointment or the death of the survivor of the individual who are Permitted
Transferees.  Each owner of an equitable interest is an individual who
is a Permitted Transferee. 

(f)           Incentive
Stock Options 

Incentive stock
options ( ISOs ), as defined in Section 422 of the Code, may be granted to key
employees under the Plan. The decision to grant ISOs to particular persons is
within the Committee s discretion. An Option Award Agreement shall specify
whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a Non-Qualified Stock Option
( NQSO ).  A NQSO is an option that does not meet the definition of an
ISO.  ISOs shall not be exercisable after expiration of ten years from
the date of grant. The amount of ISOs vesting in a particular calendar year for
an option recipient under this Plan and all incentive stock option plans of the
Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation cannot exceed $100,000, based on
the fair market value of the Shares subject to the options on the date of grant;
provided that any portion of an option that cannot be exercised as an ISO
because of this limitation may be converted by the Committee to another form of
option. If any employee or former employee shall make any disposition of Shares
issued pursuant to the exercise of an ISO under the circumstances described in
Section 421(b) of the Code (relating to certain disqualifying dispositions),
such employee or former employee shall notify the Company of such disposition
within ten (10) days thereof.  The Board may amend the Plan to comply
with Section 422 of the Code or other applicable laws and to permit options
previously granted to be converted to ISOs. 

5.2            Non-Employee
Directors  

(a)           Terms 

Subject to the
share ownership requirements, options with a term of ten years are granted to
each non-employee director for 4,000 Shares, effective as of the close of each
annual meeting of stockholders at which an individual is elected a director or
following which such individual continues as a director.  Options
granted to non-employee directors shall become exercisable by one-third at the
end of each of the three successive one-year periods since the date of
grant.  The exercise price of each option shall be 100% of the fair
market value of Shares underlying the option on the date of grant. 

(b)           Termination
of Directorship 

An option awarded
to a non-employee director may be exercised any time within sixty months of
the date the director terminates such status.  In the event of a
director s death, the director s authorized representative may exercise the
option within sixty months of the date of death, provided that if the director
dies after cessation of director status, the option is exercisable within
sixty-six months of such cessation.  In no event shall an option
awarded to a non-employee director be exercisable beyond the expiration date of
that option. 

Section
6.  Stock Appreciation Rights 

6.1            Company
Employees  

(a)           Types
of SARs 

The Committee may
grant  tandem  and  non-tandem  SARs under the Plan.  A tandem SAR
shall be granted at the same time as an option and may be exercised by the
recipient as an alternative to the option.  The term of a tandem SAR,
its exercisability and any conditions or restrictions applicable to it shall be
the same as its related option, and its base price shall be equal to the
exercise price of the related option.  In addition, upon the exercise
of the option, the tandem SAR (or the portion related to the exercise) shall
expire and upon exercise of the tandem SAR, the related option (or such portion)
shall expire.  The terms of a non-tandem SAR shall be established by
the Committee.  A SAR that is not otherwise designated but is granted
at the same time as an option shall be a tandem SAR. 

(b)           Eligibility 

The Committee shall
determine Company officers and employees to whom SARs shall be granted, the
timing of such grants, and the number of shares subject to the SAR; provided
that the maximum number of Shares upon which non-tandem SARs may be granted to
any employee in any calendar year shall be 400,000. 

(c)           SAR
Base Price 

The base price of
each non-tandem SAR shall not be less than one hundred percent of the fair
market value of Shares underlying the SAR at the time the SAR is
granted.  The fair market value for purposes of determining the base
price shall be the mean between the high and the low prices at which Shares are
traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the day the SAR is
granted.  In the event this method for determining fair market value
is not practicable, fair market value shall be determined by such other
reasonable method as the Committee shall select. 

(d)           SAR
Exercise 

Non-tandem SARs
shall be exercisable in such installments and during such periods as may be
fixed by the Committee at the time of grant.  Non-tandem SARs shall
not be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the date of
grant. 

Upon exercise of an
SAR, the recipient shall be entitled to receive from the Company that number of
Shares having an aggregate fair market value as of the date of exercise equal to
the product of (i) the number of Shares as to which the recipient is exercising
the SAR, and (ii) the excess of the fair market value (at the date of exercise)
of a Share over the base price of the SAR, provided that the Committee may elect
to settle all or a portion of the Company's obligation arising out of the
exercise of an SAR by the payment of cash in an amount equal to the fair market
value as of the date of exercise of the Shares it would otherwise be obligated
to deliver.  The fair market value of Shares for this purpose shall be
the mean between the high and low prices at which Shares are traded on the New
York Stock Exchange on the date of exercise.  Upon exercise of an SAR,
any applicable taxes the Company is required to withhold shall be paid to the
Company.  Shares to be received upon exercise may be surrendered to
satisfy withholding obligations. 

Notwithstanding the
foregoing or anything herein or in an award document to the contrary, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to accelerate the
vesting of non-tandem SARs at any time following the time of grant. 

(e)           Termination
of Employment 

The Committee may
require a period of continued employment before a non-tandem SAR can be
exercised.  That period shall not be less than one year, except that
the Committee may permit a shorter period in the event of termination of
employment by retirement or death. 

Termination of
employment with the Company shall terminate remaining rights under non-tandem
SARs then held; provided, however, that a non-tandem SAR grant may provide that
if employment terminates after completion of a specific period, the SAR may be
exercised during a period of time after termination.  That period may
not exceed sixty months where termination of employment is caused by retirement
or death or sixty days where termination results from any other cause provided
that such period shall not extend beyond the original maximum term of the
SAR.  If death occurs after termination of employment but during the
period of time specified, such period may be extended to not more than sixty-six
months after retirement, or thirty-eight months after termination of employment
for any other cause provided that such period shall not extend beyond the
original maximum term of the SAR.  In the event of termination within
two years after a Change of Control as defined in Section 10.2 of the Plan,
non-tandem SARs shall be exercisable for a period of sixty months following the
date of termination or for the maximum term of the SAR, whichever is
shorter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may change the
post-termination period of exercisability of a non-tandem SAR provided that
change does not extend the original maximum term of the SAR. 

(f)           Transferability
of SARs 

(i)           Except
as otherwise permitted in Section 6(f)(ii), non-tandem SARs shall not be
transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act.  Non-tandem SARs are
exercisable during the holder s lifetime only by the holder, unless the holder
becomes incapacitated or disabled, in which case the SAR may be exercised by the
holder s authorized representative.  A holder may file with the
Company a written designation of beneficiaries with the authority to exercise
non-tandem SARs in the event of the holder s death. 

(ii)           Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 6(f)(i), and in addition to the permissible transfers
under that provision, non-tandem SARs granted to persons at the level of Vice
President and above, as well as directors of this corporation and persons
retired from those positions, may be transferred to any one or more  Permitted
Transferees,  as long as those SARs are fully vested.  Non-tandem SARs
granted to employees below the level of Vice President may be transferred upon
prior approval of the Company s Director of Compensation and Benefits pursuant
to the terms of this section. 

(iii)           For
purposes of Section 6(f)(ii), the term "Permitted Transferees" shall mean the
members of the group that consists exclusively of the individual to whom the
non-tandem SAR is granted, the spouse of the individual to whom the non-tandem
SAR is granted, the lineal descendants of the individual to whom the non-tandem
SAR is granted, the spouses of the lineal descendents to whom the non-tandem SAR
is granted, the lineal descendants of any spouse or former spouse of the
individual to whom the non-tandem SAR is granted, the spouses of the lineal
descendants of any spouse or former spouse of the individual to whom the
non-tandem SAR is granted, the estate (and any trust that serves a distributive
function of an estate) of the Permitted Transferee, all trusts that an
individual who is a Permitted Transferee can revoke and all trusts,
corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies and other entities in
which, directly or indirectly, but for the exercise of a power of appointment or
the death of the survivor of the individual who are Permitted
Transferees.  Each owner of an equitable interest is an individual who
is a Permitted Transferee. 

6.2            Non-Employee
Directors  

(a)           Terms 

The Committee may
grant SARs to non-employee directors.  With respect to the grant of
SARs to non-employee directors and subject to any share ownership requirements,
each year the Committee shall determine (i) the type of such  SAR
grant (i.e., tandem or non-tandem), (ii)  the timing of such SAR grant
and (iii) the number of shares subject to the SAR.  All SARs granted
under this provision of the Plan will be evidenced by an Award
Agreement. 

SARs granted to
non-employee directors shall have a term of ten years and become exercisable by
one-third at the end of each of the three successive one-year periods since the
date of grant. The base price of each SAR shall be 100% of the fair market value
of Shares underlying the SAR on the date the SAR is granted. 

(b)           Termination
of Directorship 

A SAR granted to a
non-employee director may be exercised any time within sixty months of the
date the director terminates such status.  In the event of a
director s death, the director s authorized representative may exercise the SAR
within sixty months of the date of death, provided that if the director dies
after cessation of director status, the authorized representative may exercise
the SAR within sixty-six months of such cessation.  In no event shall
a SAR granted to a non-employee director be exercisable beyond the original
expiration date of that SAR. 

Section
7.  Restricted Stock 

7.1            Company
Employees  

(a)           Eligibility 

The Committee may
determine whether restricted stock or restricted stock units shall be awarded to
Company officers and employees, the timing of award, and the conditions and
restrictions imposed on the award.  Restricted stock units are similar
to restricted stock except that no Shares are actually awarded to the employee
on the date of grant.  Shares are awarded only on the date of
exercise. 

(b)           Terms 

With respect to
restricted stock grants, during the restriction period the recipient shall have
a beneficial interest in the restricted stock and all associated rights and
privileges of a stockholder, including the right to vote and receive dividends,
subject to any restrictions imposed by the Committee at the time of
grant.  The recipient shall have no voting or dividend rights with
respect to any restricted stock units granted hereunder.  The
Committee may grant dividend equivalents on restricted stock units with such
terms and conditions as the Committee shall specify. 

The following
restrictions will be imposed on Shares of restricted stock (and restricted stock
units where specified) until expiration of the restriction period: 

(i)           The
recipient shall not be entitled to delivery of the certificates for the
Shares; 

(ii)           None
of the restricted stock units or   Shares issued as
restricted stock may be transferred other than by will or by the laws of descent
and distribution; and 

(iii)           Restricted
stock units or Shares issued as restricted stock shall be forfeited if the
recipient terminates employment with the Company, except for termination due to
retirement after a specified age, disability, death or other special
circumstances approved by the Committee. 

Shares awarded as
restricted stock will be issued subject to a restriction period set by the
Committee of no less than two nor more than ten years.  The Committee,
except for restrictions specified in the preceding paragraphs, shall have the
discretion to remove any or all of the restrictions on a restricted stock award
whenever it determines such action appropriate.  Except with respect
to a maximum of five percent of the Shares authorized in Section 2, any awards
of restricted stock or restricted stock units which vest on the basis of the
recipient s continued employment with or provision of service to the Company
shall not provide for vesting which is any more rapid than annual pro rata
vesting over a three year period and any awards of restricted stock or
restricted stock units which vest upon the attainment of performance goals shall
provide for a performance period of at least twelve months.  Upon
expiration of the restriction period, the Shares will be made available to the
recipient, subject to satisfaction of applicable tax withholding
requirements. 

7.2            Non-Employee
Directors  

(a)           On
January 1 of each year, 400 Shares of restricted stock shall be granted to each
director who is not currently an employee of the Company.  The stock
will be subject to a restriction period of three years from the date of
grant.  During the restriction period, the recipient shall have a
beneficial interest in the restricted stock and all associated rights and
privileges of a stockholder, including the right to vote and receive
dividends. 

The following
restrictions will be imposed on restricted stock until expiration of the
restricted period: 

(i)           The
recipient shall not be entitled to delivery of the Shares; 

(ii)           None
of the Shares issued as restricted stock may be transferred other than by will
or by the laws of descent and distribution; and 

(iii)           Shares
issued as restricted stock shall be forfeited if the recipient ceases to serve
as a director of the Company, except for termination due to death, disability,
or retirement under the Company s Directors  Retirement Plan. 

Upon expiration of
the restriction period, the Shares will be made available to the recipient,
subject to satisfaction of applicable tax withholding requirements. 

(b)           Each
January 1st, 350 shares of restricted stock, in addition to shares described in
Section 7.2(a), shall be awarded to each director who is not currently and has
not been an employee of the Company. Shares awarded under this Section 7.2(b)
will be held in escrow until the director terminates service with the Company.
During the restriction period, the recipient shall have a beneficial interest in
the restricted stock and all associated rights and privileges of a stockholder
except as discussed below. 

The following
restrictions will be imposed on restricted stock awarded under this Section
7.2(b) until it is made available to the recipient: 

(i)           The
recipient shall not receive dividends on the shares, but an amount equal to such
dividends will be credited to the director s stock equivalent account in the
Company s Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan; 

(ii)           The
recipient shall not be entitled to delivery of the shares; 

(iii)           None
of the shares awarded may be transferred other than by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution; and 

(iv)           The
right to receive shares shall be subordinate to the claims of general creditors
of the Company. 

Upon termination of
service, restricted shares will be made available to the recipient subject to
satisfaction of applicable tax withholding requirements; provided, however, that
if the recipient has not served on the Board for at least five years at the time
of such termination, all restricted shares awarded under this Section 7.2(b)
shall be forfeited. 

Pursuant to
termination of the Company s Directors  Retirement Plan effective December 31,
1996, each director continuing in office was awarded an amount of restricted
stock equal to the accumulated value of past pension accruals as determined by
the Company s actuary.  Those shares will be subject to the same
restrictions as shares awarded annually pursuant to this Section
7.2(b). 

(c)           Effective
January 1, 2002, shares of restricted stock shall no longer be granted under
Section 7.2(a) of the Plan or awarded under Section 7.2(b) of the
Plan.  Shares of restricted stock that were granted or awarded prior
to January 1, 2002, shall be subject to the same restrictions and provisions as
determined in 7.2(a) and 7.2(b). 

(d)           With
respect to the award of restricted stock units, the Committee in its sole
discretion may determine (i) whether restricted stock units shall be awarded to
non-employee directors, (ii) the timing of award, and (iii) the conditions and
restrictions imposed on the award. 

Section
8  Performance Awards 

8.1            Eligibility and
Terms  

The Committee may
grant awards to officers and other key employees ( Performance Awards ) based
upon Company performance over a period of years ( Performance
Period ).  The Committee shall have sole discretion to determine
persons eligible to participate, the Performance Period, Company performance
factors applicable to the award ( Performance Measures ), and the method of
Performance Award calculation. 

At the time the
Committee establishes a Performance Period for a particular award, it shall also
establish Performance Measures and targets to be attained relative to those
measures ( Performance Targets ).  Performance Measures may be based
on any of the following factors, alone or in combination, as the Committee deems
appropriate: (i) return on assets; (ii) return on equity; (iii) return on sales;
(iv) total stockholder return; (v) cash flow; (vi) economic value added; (vii)
net earnings; and (viii) earnings per share relative to a peer
group.  The Committee may establish the peer group referenced above
and amend the peer group as the Committee determines
desirable.  Performance Targets may include a minimum, maximum and
target level of performance with the size of Performance Awards based on the
level attained.  Once established, Performance Targets and Performance
Measures shall not be changed during the Performance Period; provided, however,
that the Committee may eliminate or decrease the amount of a Performance Award
otherwise payable to a participant.  Upon completion of a Performance
Period, the Committee shall determine the Company s performance in relation to
the Performance Targets for that period and certify in writing the extent to
which Performance Targets were satisfied. 

8.2            Payment of
Awards  

Performance Awards
may be paid in cash, stock, restricted stock (pursuant to terms applicable to
restricted stock awarded to Company employees as described in the Plan), or a
combination thereof as determined by the Committee. Performance Awards shall be
made not later than ninety days following the end of the relevant Performance
Period. The fair market value of a Performance Award payment to any individual
employee in any calendar year shall not exceed Two Million Five Hundred Thousand
and NO/100 Dollars ($2,500,000.00).  The fair market value of Shares
to be awarded shall be determined by the average of the high and low price of
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange on the last business day of the
Performance Period. Federal, state and local taxes will be withheld as
appropriate. 

8.3            Termination  

To receive a
Performance Award, the participant must be employed by the Company on the last
day of the Performance Period.  If a participant terminates employment
during the Performance Period by reason of death, disability or retirement, a
payout based on the time of employment during the Performance Period shall be
distributed.  Participants employed on the last day of the Performance
Period, but not for the entire Performance Period, shall receive a payout
prorated for that part of the Performance Period for which they were
participants.  If the participant is deceased at the time of
Performance Award payment, the payment shall be made to the recipient s
designated representative. 

Section
9.  Election to Receive Non-Employee Director Fees in
Shares 

Effective April 8,
1998, non-employee directors shall have the option of receiving all or a portion
of their annual retainer fees, as well as fees for attendance at meetings of the
Board and committees of the Board (including any Committee Chairman stipend), in
the form of Shares. 

The number of
Shares that may be issued pursuant to such election shall be based on the amount
of cash compensation subject to the election divided by the fair market value of
one Share on the date such cash compensation is payable.  The fair
market value shall be the mean between the high and low prices at which Shares
are traded on the New York Stock Exchange on payable date. 

Shares provided
pursuant to the election shall be held in book-entry form by the Company on
behalf of the non-employee director.  Upon request, the Company shall
deliver Shares so held to the non-employee director.  While held in
book-entry form, the Shares shall have all associated rights and privileges,
including voting rights and the right to receive dividends. 

Section
10.  Change of Control 

10.1            Effect on Grants and
Awards  

Unless the
Committee shall otherwise expressly provide in the agreement relating to a grant
or award under the Plan, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control as defined
below: (i) all options and SARs then outstanding under the Plan shall become
fully exercisable as of the date of the Change of Control; (ii) all terms and
conditions of restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards, and other
stock-based awards for which no performance goals have been established then
outstanding shall be deemed satisfied as of the date of the Change of Control;
and (iii) all Performance Awards or other stock-based awards for which
performance goal(s) have been established for a Performance Period not completed
at the time of the Change of Control shall be payable in an amount equal to the
product of the maximum award opportunity for the Performance Award or other
stock-based award, and a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
months that have elapsed since the beginning of the Performance Period through
the later of (A) the date of the Change of Control or (B) the date the
participant terminates employment, and the denominator of which is the total
number of months in the Performance Period; provided, however, that if this Plan
shall remain in force after a Change of Control, a Performance Period is
completed during that time, and the participant s employment has not terminated,
this provision (iii) shall not apply. 

10.2            Change of Control
Defined  

For purposes of the
Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if: 

(a)           Any
person becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
fifteen percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then
outstanding common stock, unless the Board by resolution negates the effect of
this provision in a particular circumstance, deeming that resolution to be in
the best interests of Company stockholders; 

(b)           During
any period of two consecutive years, there shall cease to be a majority of the
Board comprised of individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted
the Board; 

(c)           The
stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation which would result
in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity) less than fifty percent of the
combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving
entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation;
or 

(d)           Company
stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an
agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all
of its assets. 

Section
11.  Amendment and Termination 

11.1            Amendment, Modification, Suspension,
and Termination  

Subject to Section
11.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend,
modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or
in part; provided, however, that, no amendment of the Plan shall be made without
stockholder approval if stockholder approval is required by law, regulation, or
stock exchange rule. 

11.2            Adjustment of Awards Upon the
Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events  

The Committee may
make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in,
awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without
limitation, the events described in Section 2.3 hereof) affecting the Company or
the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws,
regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that
such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or
enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available
under the Plan.  The determination of the Committee as to the
foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants
under the Plan. 

11.3            Awards Previously
Granted  

Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment,
suspension, or modification of the Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely
affect in any material way any award previously granted under the Plan,
without the written consent of the Participant holding such award. 

Section
12.  Regulatory Compliance 

Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan, the issuance or delivery of any Shares may be
postponed for such period as may be required to comply with any applicable
requirements of any national securities exchange or any requirements under any
other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or delivery of such
Shares.  The Company shall not be obligated to issue or deliver any
Shares if such issuance or delivery shall constitute a violation of any
provision of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or national
securities exchange. 

Section
13.  Dividend Equivalents 

Any participant
selected by the Committee may be granted dividend equivalents based on the
dividends declared of Shares that are subject to any award, to be credited as of
dividend payment dates, during the period between the date the award is granted
and the date the award is exercised, vests, or expires, as determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion.  Such dividend equivalents shall be
converted to cash or additional Shares by such formula and at such time and
subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion. 

Section
14.  Beneficiary Designation 

Each Participant
under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries
(who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the
Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or
all of such benefit.  Each such designation shall revoke all
prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the
Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing
with the Company during the Participant s lifetime.  In the absence of
any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant s death shall
be paid to the Participant s estate. 

Section
15.  Rights of Participants 

15.1            Employment  

Nothing in the Plan
or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the
Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, to terminate any Participant s
employment or service on the Board at any time or for any reason not prohibited
by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his or her
employment or service as a Director for any specified period of
time. 

Neither an award
nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract
with the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries and, accordingly,
subject to Sections 3 and 11, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be
terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee
without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates,
and/or its Subsidiaries. 

15.2            Participation  

No individual shall
have the right to be selected to receive an award under this Plan, or, having
been so selected, to be selected to receive a future award. 

15.3            Rights as a
Stockholder  

Except as otherwise
provided herein, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder
with respect to Shares covered by any award until the Participant becomes the
record holder of such Shares. 

15.4            Clawback
Provision  

Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including Section 11.3 which
prohibits material and adverse modifications to any award previously granted
under the Plan, any participant who is an officer of the Company whose
negligent, intentional or gross misconduct contributes to the Company s having
to restate all or a portion of its financial statements, will be required to
forfeit awards granted under this Plan and repay the Company the total amount of
award gain realized by the participant upon the exercise of an option or
settlement of an award, as determined by the Board of Directors, an authorized
committee, or its designee, pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Guidelines on
Corporate Governance Issues as adopted on February 14, 2007 and any subsequent
amendments.  Any award granted under this Plan prior to February 14,
2007 is subject to the provisions of this Section 15.4 only with the written
consent of the participant. 

Section
16.  Successors 

All obligations of
the Company under the Plan with respect to awards granted hereunder shall be
binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor
is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the
Company. 

Section
17.  Nonexclusivity of the Plan 

The adoption of
this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the
Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem
desirable for any Participant. 

Section
18.  No Constraint on Corporate Action 

Nothing in this
Plan shall be construed to: (i) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company s
or a Subsidiary s or an Affiliate s right or power to make adjustments,
reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business
structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer
all or any part of its business or assets; or, (ii) limit the right or power of
the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity
deems to be necessary or appropriate. 

Section
19.  Governing Law 

The Plan and each
Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois,
excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise
refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of
another jurisdiction.  Unless otherwise provided in the Award
Agreement, recipients of an award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the
exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Illinois, to
resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any
related Award Agreement. 

Section
20.  Duration of the Plan 

Unless sooner
terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten years from the date
it was initially adopted. After the Plan is terminated, no awards may be granted
but awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their
applicable terms and conditions and the Plan s terms and
conditions. 

Section
21.  Effective Date 

This Plan
Restatement shall be effective December 19, 2008. 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 ex_10-2.htm
 2006 LTIP

ex_10-2.htm 

Exhibit
10.2 

Caterpillar
Inc. 

2006
Long-Term Incentive Plan 

(Amended
and Restated through Fifth Amendment) 

Section
1. 

        Establishment,
Objectives and Duration 

1.1.    Establishment  .   Subject
to the approval of the stockholders of Caterpillar Inc., a Delaware corporation
(the  Company ), the Company has established the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), as set forth herein.  The Plan supersedes
and replaces all prior equity and non-equity long-term incentive compensation
plans or programs maintained by the Company; provided that, any prior plans of
the Company shall remain in effect until all awards granted under such prior
plans have been exercised, forfeited, canceled, expired or otherwise terminated
in accordance with the terms of such grants.  

1.2.    Purpose  .   The
Plan is intended to provide certain present and future employees and Directors
cash-based incentives, stock-based incentives and other equity interests in the
Company thereby giving them a stake in the growth and prosperity of the Company
and encouraging the continuance of their services with the Company or its
Subsidiaries.  

1.3.    Effective
Date . The Plan is effective as of the later of (a) the date the Plan is
adopted by the Board or (b) the date the Company s stockholders approve the Plan
(the  Effective Date ).  The Plan will be deemed to be approved by the
stockholders if it receives the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of
the shares of stock of the Company present or represented and entitled to vote
at a meeting duly held in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company.  

1.4.    Duration  .    
The Plan shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Company s Board of
Directors to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Section 16,
until all Shares subject to the Plan shall have been purchased or granted
according to the Plan s provisions.  However, in no event may an Award
be granted under the Plan on or after the tenth anniversary of the Effective
Date.  Upon termination of the Plan, no Awards may be granted but
Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with the terms
of the Plan and the applicable Award Document.  

Section
2. 

        Definitions
and Construction 

When
a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and
the word or phrase does not commence a sentence, the word or phrase shall
generally be given the meaning ascribed to it in this Section unless a clearly
different meaning is required by the context.  The following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings: 

2.1.       Award    
means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Nonqualified
Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted
Stock, Performance Shares or Performance Units.  

2.2.       Award
Document    
means any agreement, contract, or other written instrument that evidences an
Award granted to the Participant under the Plan and sets forth the terms and
provisions applicable to such Award.  

2.3.       Award
Gain       means   (a)
with respect to a given Option exercise, the product of (X) the excess of the
Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the Option Price times
(Y) the number of shares as to which the Option was exercised at that date, and
(b) with respect to any other settlement of an Award granted to the Participant,
the Fair Market Value of the cash or Shares paid or payable to the Participant
(regardless of any elective deferral pursuant to Section 13) less any cash or
the Fair Market Value of any Shares or property (other than an Award that would
have itself then been forfeitable hereunder and excluding any payment of tax
withholding) paid by the Participant to the Company as a condition of or in
connection such settlement.  

2.4.       Board     . 
means the Board of Directors of the Company.  

2.5.       Cause     . 
means, except as otherwise provided in an Award Document, a willful engaging in
gross misconduct materially and demonstrably injurious to the
Company.  For this purpose,  willful  means an act or omission in bad
faith and without reasonable belief that such act or omission was in or not
opposed to the best interests of the Company.  

2.6.       Change
of Control    .
means the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) any person becomes the
 beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly
or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 15 percent or more of
the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding common stock, unless
the Board by resolution negates the effect of this provision in a particular
circumstance, deeming that resolution to be in the best interests of Company
stockholders; (b) during any period of two consecutive years, there shall cease
to be a majority of the Board comprised of individuals who at the beginning of
such period constituted the Board; (c) the stockholders of the Company approve a
merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto representing (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity) less than fifty percent of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after
such merger or consolidation; or (d) Company stockholders approve a plan of
complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition
by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets.  

2.7.       Code     . 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any
successor legislation thereto.  

2.8.       Committee     . 
means the Compensation Committee of the Board, appointed to administer the Plan,
as provided in Section 3.  

2.9. 
     Company    .
means Caterpillar Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor to such entity
as provided in Section 18.  

2.10. 
     Director    .
means any individual who is a member of the Board.  

2.11.       Disability    .
means, unless otherwise provided for in an employment, change of control or
similar agreement in effect between the Participant and the Company or a
Subsidiary or in an Award Document, (a) in the case of an Employee, the Employee
qualifying for long-term disability benefits under any long-term disability
program sponsored by the Company or Subsidiary in which the Employee
participates, and (b) in the case of a Director, the inability of the Director
to engage in any substantial gainful business activity by reason of any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to
result in death, or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous
period of not less than 12 months, as determined by the Committee, based upon
medical evidence.  

2.12. 
     Effective
Date     . 
means the date specified in Section 1.3.  

2.13. 
     Employee     . 
means any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary.  

2.14. 
     Exchange
Act    .
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any
successor act thereto.  

2.15.       Fair
Market Value    .
means, as of any given date, the fair market value of a Share on a particular
date determined by such methods or procedures as may be established from time to
time by the Committee.  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee,
the Fair Market Value of a Share as of any date shall be the mean between the
high and low prices at which the Share is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
for that date or, if no prices are reported for that date, the prices on the
next preceding date for which prices were reported.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of
Section 6.5(d) of the Plan, Fair Market Value means the actual price at which
the Shares used to acquire Shares are sold.  

2.16.       Family
Member    
means any (a) child; (b) stepchild; (c) grandchild; (d) parent; (e) stepparent;
(f) grandparent; (g) spouse; (h) former spouse; (i) sibling; (j) niece; (k)
nephew; (l) mother-in-law; (m) father-in-law; (n) son-in-law; (o)
daughter-in-law; (p) brother-in-law; or (q) sister-in-law of the Participant
(including adoptive relationships).  Family Member also shall mean any
person sharing in the Participant s household (other than a tenant or an
employee).  

2.17.       Good
Reason     . 
means, except as otherwise provided in an Award Document, the occurrence of any
of the following circumstances (unless such circumstances are fully corrected by
the Company before a Participant s termination of
employment):  

(a)
the Company s assignment of any duties materially inconsistent with the
Participant s position within the Company, or which have a significant adverse
alteration in the nature or status of the responsibilities of the Participant s
employment; or 

(b)  a
material reduction by the Company in the Participant s annual base salary,
unless such reduction is part of a compensation reduction program affecting all
similarly situated management employees. 

2.18.       Incentive
Stock Option    .
or     ISO    
means the right to purchase Shares pursuant terms and conditions that provide
that such right will be treated as an incentive stock option within the meaning
of Code Section 422, as described in Section 6.  

2.19.       Long
Service Separation    
means, except as otherwise provided in an Award Document, a termination of
employment with the Company or a Subsidiary after the attainment of age 55 and
the completion of ten or more years of service with the Company and/or its
Subsidiaries.  Notwithstanding the foregoing and notwithstanding
anything in an Award Document to the contrary, for purposes of determining
whether a Participant has incurred a Long Service Separation, the last period of
continuous service with Progress Rail Services, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries and
affiliates ( Progress Rail ) prior to May 16, 2006 shall be considered service
with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, subject to such administrative rules
that the Committee (or its delegate) determines are appropriate and provided
such participant was employed by Progress Rail on May 16,
2006.  

2.20.       Named
Executive Office  r   . 
means a Participant who is one of the group of covered employees as defined in
the regulations promulgated under Code Section 162(m), or any successor
provision or statute.  

2.21.       Nonqualified
Stock Option     . 
or     NQSO    .
means the right to purchase Shares pursuant to terms and conditions that provide
that such right will not be treated as an Incentive Stock Option, as described
in Section 6.  

2.22.       Option     . 
means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, as described in
Section 6.  

2.23.       Option
Price     . 
means the per share price of a Share available for purchase pursuant to an
Option.  

2.24.       Participant     . 
means an Employee, prospective Employee, Director, beneficiary or any other
person who has outstanding an Award granted under the Plan, and includes those
former Employees and Directors who have certain post-termination rights under
the terms of an Award granted under the Plan.  

2.25.       Performance-Based
Exception     . 
means the exception for performance-based compensation from the tax
deductibility limitations of Code Section 162(m).  

2.26.       Performance
Period     . 
means the time period during which performance goals must be achieved with
respect to an Award, as determined by the Committee.  

2.27.       Performance
Share    .
means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Section
9.  

2.28.       Performance
Unit     . 
means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Section
9.  

2.29.       Period
of Restriction    .
means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock is
limited in some way, and the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of
forfeiture, as provided in Section 8.  

2.30.       Permitted
Transferee    
means any one or more of the following: (a) Family Members; (b) a trust in which
the Participant and/or Family Members have more than fifty percent of the
beneficial interest; (c) a foundation in which the Participant and/or Family
Members control the management of the assets; or (d) any other entity in which
the Participant and/or Family Members own more than fifty percent of the voting
interests.  

2.31.       Plan    .
means the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as set forth
herein.  

2.32.       Restricted
Stock     . 
means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to
Section 8.  

2.33.       Section
16 Officer    
means any Employee who is considered an officer of the Company for purposes of
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

2.34.       Share      or
     Shares     . 
means shares of common stock of the Company.   

2.35.       Stock
Appreciation Right      or
     SAR    .
means an Award, granted alone or in connection with a related Option, designated
as an SAR, pursuant to the terms of Section 7.  

2.36.       Subsidiary    .
means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, affiliate, or other entity in
which the Company is at least a majority-owner of all issued and outstanding
equity interests or has a controlling interest.  

2.37.       Tandem
SAR    .
means a SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to
Section 7, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to
purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is purchased under
the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be forfeited).  

2.38.       Non-Tandem
SAR     . 
means a SAR that is granted independently of any Options, as described in
   Section
7. 

Section
3. 

        Administration 

3.1.    Plan
Administration  .   The
Committee, or any other committee appointed by the Board, shall administer the
Plan.  The Committee or other committee appointed to administer the
Plan shall consist of not less than two non-Employee Directors of the Company,
within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act and not less than two
outside directors, within the meaning of Code Section 162(m).  The
Board may, from time to time, remove members from, or add members to, the
Committee.  Members of the Board shall fill any vacancies on the
Committee.  Acts of a majority of the Committee at a meeting at which
a quorum is present, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by unanimous
consent of the members of the Committee, shall be valid acts of the
Committee.  

3.2.    Authority
of the Committee  .   Except
as limited by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the
Company, and subject to the provisions herein, the Committee shall have full
power to select Employees, prospective Employees and Directors who shall
participate in the Plan; determine the sizes and types of Awards; determine the
terms and conditions of Awards in a manner consistent with the Plan; construe
and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the
Plan; establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan s
administration; and amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award to
the extent such terms and conditions are within the sole discretion of the
Committee as provided in the Plan and subject to Section 16.  Further,
the Committee shall make all other determinations, which may be necessary or
advisable for the administration of the Plan.  As permitted by law,
the Committee may delegate the authority granted to it
herein.  

3.3.    Electronic
Administration . The Committee may, in its discretion, utilize a system
for complete or partial electronic administration of the Plan and may replace
any written documents described in the Plan with electronic counterparts, as
appropriate.  

3.4.    Decisions
Binding  .   All
determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of
the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Board shall be final,
conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders,
Employees, Participants, and their estates and
beneficiaries.  

Section
4. 

        Shares
Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards 

4  .1.    

Shares
      Available for Awards .  

(a)  The
Shares available for Awards may be either authorized and unissued Shares or
Shares held in or acquired for the treasury of the Company.  The
aggregate number of Shares that may be issued or used for reference purposes
under the Plan or with respect to which Awards may be granted shall not exceed
twenty million (20,000,000) Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section
4.3.  In addition, seventeen million six hundred thousand (17,600,000)
Shares authorized but unissued pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. 1996 Stock
Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan shall be reserved and available for grant
under the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate number
of Shares with respect to which ISOs may be granted shall not exceed the number
specified above, and provided further, that up to an aggregate of twenty percent
(20%) of the authorized Shares under the Plan may be issued with respect to
Awards of Restricted Stock and up to an aggregate of twenty percent (20%) of the
authorized Shares under the Plan may be issued with respect to Awards of
Performance Shares. 

(b)  Upon: 

(i)  a
payout of a Non-Tandem SAR or Tandem SAR in the form of cash; 

(ii)
a cancellation, termination, expiration, forfeiture, or lapse for any reason
(with the exception of the termination of a Tandem SAR upon exercise of the
related Options, or the termination of a related Option upon exercise of the
corresponding Tandem SAR) of any Award; or 

(iii)  payment
of an Option Price or payout of any Award with previously acquired Shares or by
withholding Shares which otherwise would be acquired on exercise or issued upon
such payout, 

the
number of Shares underlying any such Award that were not issued as a result of
any of the foregoing actions shall again be available for the purposes of Awards
under the Plan.  In addition, in the case of any Award granted in
substitution for an award of a company or business acquired by the Company or a
Subsidiary, Shares issued or issuable in connection with such substitute Award
shall not be counted against the number of Shares reserved under the Plan, but
shall be available under the Plan by virtue of the Company s assumption of the
plan or arrangement of the acquired company or business. 

4.2.    Individual
Participant Limitations  .   Unless
and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Named Executive Officer
shall not be designed to comply with the Performance-Based Exception, the
following rules shall apply to grants of such Awards under the
Plan:  

(a)  Subject
to adjustment as provided in Section 4.3, the maximum aggregate number of Shares
(including Options, SARs, Restricted Stock and Performance Shares to be paid out
in Shares) that may be granted in any one fiscal year to a Participant shall be
800,000 Shares. 

(b)  Except
as otherwise provided in Section 7.5(b) regarding SAR exercise, the maximum
aggregate cash payout (including Performance Units and Performance Shares paid
out in cash) with respect to Awards granted in any one fiscal year that may be
made to any Participant shall be $5 million. 

4.3.    Adjustments
in Authorized Shares  .   In
the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, or a
corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including
a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, any
reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition
of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of the
Company, an adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares available
for Awards, the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to
outstanding Awards granted under the Plan and the number of Shares set forth in
Sections 4.1 and 4.2, to prevent dilution or enlargement of
rights.  Such adjustment shall be made in a manner determined by the
Committee, in its sole discretion, to be appropriate and equitable; provided,
however, that (a) no such adjustment shall cause an increase in the fair value
of an Award for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004) or any successor thereto; and (b) the number of Shares subject to
any Award shall always be a whole number by rounding any fractional Share (up or
down) to the nearest whole Share.  

Section
5. 

        Eligibility
and Participation 

5.1.    Eligibility  .    
Persons eligible to participate in the Plan include all current and future
Employees (including officers), persons who have been offered employment by the
Company or a Subsidiary (provided that such prospective Employee may not receive
any payment or exercise any right relating to an Award until such person begins
employment with the Company or Subsidiary), and Directors, as determined by the
Committee.  

5.2.    Participation  .    
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall determine and
designate, from time to time, the Employees, prospective Employees, and
Directors to whom Awards shall be granted, the terms of such Awards, and the
number of Shares subject to such Award.  

5.3.    Foreign
Participants .  In order to assure the viability of Awards
granted to Participants employed in foreign countries, the Committee may provide
for such special terms as it may consider necessary or appropriate to
accommodate differences in local law, tax policy, or
custom.  Moreover, the Committee may approve such supplements to, or
amendments, restatements, or alternative versions of the Plan as it may consider
necessary or appropriate for such purposes without thereby affecting the terms
of the Plan as in effect for any other purpose; provided, however, that no such
supplements, amendments, restatements, or alternative versions shall increase
the share limitations contained in Section 4 of the Plan.  

Section
6. 

        Stock
Options 

(a)   Option
Grant  .    Subject
to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to one or more
Participants in such number, upon such terms and provisions, and at any time and
from time to time, as determined by the Committee, in its sole
discretion.  The Committee may grant either Nonqualified Stock Options
or (in the case of Options granted to Employees) Incentive Stock Options, and
shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Options of each
granted to each Participant, subject to the limitations of Section
4.  Each Option grant shall be evidenced by a resolution of the
Committee approving the Option grant. 

(b)   Award
Document  .
    All
Options shall be evidenced by an Award Document.  The Award Document
shall specify the Option Price, the term of the Option, the number of Shares
subject to the Option, and such other provisions as the Committee shall
determine, and which are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the
Plan.  The Award Document shall also specify whether the Option is to
be treated as an ISO within the meaning of Code Section 422.  If such
Option is not designated as an ISO, such Option shall be a NQSO. 

6.2.    Option
Price  .    
The Committee shall designate the Option Price for each Share subject to an
Option under the Plan, provided that such Option Price shall not be less than
100% of the Fair Market Value of Shares subject to an Option on the date the
Option is granted, and which Option Price may not be subsequently changed by the
Committee except pursuant to Section 4.3.  With respect to a
Participant who owns, directly or indirectly, more than 10% of the total
combined voting power of all classes of the stock of the Company or any
Subsidiary, the Option Price of Shares subject to an ISO shall be at least 110%
of the Fair Market Value of such Shares on the ISO s grant
date.  

6.3.    Term
of Options  .    
Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee
shall determine at the time of grant, but in no event shall be exercisable later
than the 10th anniversary of the grant date.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, with respect to ISOs, in the case of a Participant who owns, directly
or indirectly, more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes
of the stock of the Company or any Subsidiary, no such ISO shall be exercisable
 later
than the fifth anniversary of the grant date.   

6.4.    Exercise
of Options  .    Options
granted under this Section 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject
to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance
approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant, and
shall be set forth in the applicable Award Document.  Notwithstanding
the preceding sentence, the Fair Market Value of Shares to which ISOs are
exercisable for the first time by any Participant during any calendar year
(under all plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries) may not exceed
$100,000.  Any ISOs that become exercisable in excess of such amount
shall be deemed NQSOs to the extent of such excess.  If the Award
Document does not specify the time or times at which the Option shall first
become exercisable, such an Option shall become fully vested and exercisable by
the Participant on the third anniversary of the grant date.  

6.5.    Payment  .    Options
granted under this Section 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of
exercise to the Company (or its designated agent(s)), setting forth the number
of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by
full payment for the Shares.  The Option Price upon exercise of any
Option shall be payable to the Company in full either:  

(a)  in
cash or its equivalent, or 

(b)  by
tendering previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at
the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price, or 

(c)  by
cashless exercise through delivery of irrevocable instructions to a broker to
promptly deliver to the Company the amount of proceeds from a sale of shares
having a Fair Market Value equal to the purchase price. 

6.6.    Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .    
The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award
Document the extent to which a Participant shall have the right to exercise the
Option or Options following termination of his or her employment with the
Company or any Subsidiary or following termination of his or her service as a
Director.  Such provisions need not be uniform among all Options
issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons
for such termination, including, but not limited to, termination for Cause or
for Good Reason, or reasons relating to the breach or threatened breach of
restrictive covenants.  Subject to Section 15, in the event that
a Participant s Award Document does not set forth such provisions, the following
provisions shall apply:  

(a)   Long
Service Separation, Death or Disability  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director terminates by reason of Long Service Separation, death or
Disability, to the extent that the Option is not exercisable, all Shares covered
by his or her Options shall immediately become fully vested and shall remain
exercisable until the earlier of (i) the remainder of the term of the Option, or
(ii) 60 months from the date of such termination.  In the case of the
Participant s death, the Participant s beneficiary or estate may exercise the
Option. 

(b)   Termination
for Cause  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director terminates for Cause, all Options granted to such
Participant shall expire immediately and all rights to purchase Shares (vested
or nonvested) under the Options shall cease upon such termination. 

(c)   Other
Termination  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director terminates for any reason other than Long Service
Separation, death, Disability, or for Cause, all Options shall remain
exercisable until the earlier of (i) the remainder of the term of the Option, or
(ii) 60 days from the date of such termination.  In such circumstance,
the Option shall only be exercisable to the extent that it was exercisable as of
such termination date and shall not be exercisable with respect to any
additional Shares.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything herein
or in an Award Document to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion,
shall have the authority to extend the period during which an Option is
exercisable pursuant to this Section 6.6(c) to a period that is no longer than
the earlier of (A) the remainder of the term of the Option, or (B) 60 months
from the date of the Participant s termination of employment. 

6.7.    Restrictions
on Shares  .    The
Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the
exercise of an Option granted under this Section 6 as it may deem advisable,
including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable Federal securities
laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such
Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state or foreign
securities laws applicable to such Shares.  

6.8.    

Transferability
      of Options .  

(a)   Incentive
Stock Options  .    No
ISO granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or
otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution.  Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant
under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such
Participant. 

(b)   Nonqualified
Stock Options  .
 NQSOs may only be transferred in accordance with this Section
6.8(b). 

(i)  Except
as otherwise provided in paragraph (ii) below or in an Award Document, no NQSO
shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will, by the
laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a Domestic Relations Order (as
such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code). 

(ii)  NQSOs
(whether vested or unvested) held by (A) Participants who are Section 16
Officers; (B) Participants who are Directors; or (C) any Participants who
previously held the positions in clauses (A) and (B) may be transferred by gift
or by domestic relations order to one or more Permitted
Transferees.  NQSOs (whether vested or unvested) held by all other
Participants and by Permitted Transferees may be transferred by gift or by
domestic relations order only to Permitted Transferees upon the prior written
approval of the Company s Director of Compensation + Benefits. 

6.9    Accleration
of Vesting  .    Notwithstanding
anything in this Section 6 to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole
discretion, shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options at any
time.  

Section
7. 

        Stock
Appreciation Rights 

(a)   SAR
Grant  .       Subject
to the terms and provisions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants in
such number, upon such terms and provisions, and at any time and from time to
time, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The
Committee may grant Non-Tandem SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these
forms of SARs.  The Committee shall have complete discretion in
determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant (subject to Section
4) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and
conditions pertaining to such SARs.  The Committee shall designate, at
the time of grant, the grant price of a Non-Tandem SAR, which grant price shall
not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the grant date of
the SAR.  The grant price of Tandem SARs shall equal the Option Price
of the related Option.  Grant prices of SARs shall not subsequently be
changed by the Committee, except pursuant to Section 4.3. 

(b)   Award
Document  .   All
SARs shall be evidenced by an Award Document.  The Award Document
shall specify the grant price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as
the Committee shall determine, and which are not inconsistent with the terms and
provisions of the Plan. 

7.2.    Term
of SARs  .    
The term of a SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee,
in its sole discretion; provided, however, that unless otherwise designated by
the Committee, such term shall not exceed ten years from the grant
date.  

7.3.    Exercise
of Tandem SARs  .    Tandem
SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related
Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the
related Option.  A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to
the Shares for which its related Option is then
exercisable.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the
contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an
ISO:  (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of
the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR
may be for no more than 100% of the difference between the Option Price of the
underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying
ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (iii) the Tandem SAR may be
exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO
exceeds the Option Price of the ISO.  

7.4.    Exercise
of Non-Tandem SARs  .    
Non-Tandem SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the
Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them.  

7.5.    Payment
of SAR Amount  .   

(a)  Upon
exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the
Company in an amount determined by multiplying: 

(i)  The
excess of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the
grant price; by 

(ii)  The
number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. 

(b)  Unless
otherwise provided in the Award Document, the payment upon SAR exercise may be
in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination
thereof.  If, and to the extent that the payment upon SAR exercise is
made in cash, such cash payment shall not be subject to the limitation of
Section 4.2(b). 

7.6.    Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .    The
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award
Document the extent to which a Participant shall have the right to exercise the
SAR or SARs following termination of his or her employment with the Company or
any Subsidiary or following termination of his or her service as a
Director.  Such provisions need not be uniform among all SARs issued
pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for such
termination, including, but not limited to, termination for Cause or for Good
Reason, or reasons relating to the breach or threatened breach of restrictive
covenants.  Subject to Section 15, in the event that a Participant s
Award Document does not set forth such provisions, the following provisions
shall apply:  

(a)   Long
Service Separation, Death or Disability  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director terminates by reason of Long Service Separation, death or
Disability, to the extent that the SARs are not exercisable, all of his or her
SARs shall immediately become fully vested and shall remain exercisable until
the earlier of (i) the remainder of the term of the SAR, or (ii) 60 months from
the date of such termination.  In the case of the Participant s death,
the Participant s beneficiary or estate may exercise the SAR. 

(b)   Termination
for Cause  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director terminates for Cause, all SARs shall expire immediately
and all rights thereunder shall cease upon such termination. 

(c)   Other
Termination  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director terminates for any reason other than Long Service
Separation, death, Disability, or for Cause, all SARs shall remain exerciseable
until the earlier of (i) the remainder of the term of the SAR, or (ii) 60 days
from the date of such termination.  In such circumstance, the SAR
shall only be exercisable to the extent it was exercisable as of such
termination date and shall not be exercisable with respect to any additional
SARs.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything herein or in an Award
Document to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the
authority to extend the period during which a SAR is excercisable pursuant to
this Section 6.6(c) to a period that is no longer than the earlier of (A) the
remainder of the term of the SAR, or (B) 60 months from the date of the
Participant s termination of employment. 

7.7.    Transferability
of SARs  .    
SARs may only be transferred in accordance with this Section
7.7.  

(a)  Except
as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) below or in an Award Document, no SAR
shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will, by the
laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a Domestic Relations Order (as
such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code). 

(b)  SARs
held by (i) Participants who are Section 16 Officers; (ii) Participants who are
Directors; or (iii) any Participants who previously held the positions in
clauses (i) and (ii) may be transferred by gift or by domestic relations order
to one or more Permitted Transferees.  SARs held by all other
Participants and by Permitted Transferees may be transferred by gift or by
domestic relations order to Permitted Transferees only upon the prior written
approval of the Company s Director of Compensation and Benefits. 

(c)  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO,
no such Tandem SAR may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise
alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution. 

7.8    Acceleration
of Vesting  .   Notwithstanding
anything in this Section 7 to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole
discretion, shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of SARs at any
time.  

Section
8. 

        Restricted
Stock 

8.1.    

Grant
      of Restricted Stock .  

(a)   Grant
of Restricted Stock  .
    Subject
to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from
time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Participants in such
amounts as the Committee shall determine. 

(b)   Award
Document  .   All
shares of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award
Document.  The Award Document shall specify the Period or Periods of
Restriction (consistent with the next sentence), the number of Shares of
Restricted Stock granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall
determine pursuant to Section 8.3 or otherwise, and which shall not be
inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan.  Shares of
Restricted Stock not in excess of five percent of the number of shares that may
be issued with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock, as provided in Section
4.1, may have a Period or Periods of Restriction as determined by the Committee
in its sole discretion, and any other shares of Restricted Stock shall have a
Period of Restriction, as determined by the Committee, that shall not lapse in
any respect until on or after the third anniversary of the grant
date.  If no Period of Restriction is set forth in the Award Document,
the transfer and any other restrictions shall lapse (i) to the extent of
one-third of the Shares (rounded to the nearest whole) covered by the Restricted
Stock Award on the third anniversary of the grant date, (ii) to the extent of
two-thirds of the Shares (rounded to the nearest whole) covered by the
Restricted Stock Award on the fourth anniversary of the grant date, and (iii) to
the extent of 100% of the Shares covered by the Restricted Stock Award on the
fifth anniversary of the grant date. 

8.2.    Other
Restrictions .  Subject to Section 10 herein, the Committee may
impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted
Stock granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including without
limitation, a requirement that Shares will not be issued until the end of the
applicable Period of Restriction, a requirement that Participants pay a
stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock, restrictions based
upon the achievement of specific performance goals (Company-wide,
Subsidiary-wide, divisional, and/or individual), time-based restrictions on
vesting, which may or may not be following the attainment of the performance
goals, sales restrictions under applicable shareholder agreements or similar
agreements, and/or restrictions under applicable Federal or state securities
laws.  The Company shall retain the certificates representing Shares
of Restricted Stock in the Company s possession until such time as all
conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been
satisfied.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8 or in any
Award Document, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock
grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the Participant
after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction.  

8.3.    Voting
Rights  .    
Unless otherwise designated by the Committee at the time of grant, Participants
to whom Shares of Restricted Stock have been granted hereunder may exercise full
voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of
Restriction.  

8.4.    Dividends
and Other Distributions  .    
Unless otherwise designated by the Committee at the time of grant, Participants
holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be credited with
regular cash dividends paid with respect to the underlying Shares while they are
so held during the Period of Restriction.  The Committee may apply any
restrictions to the dividends that the Committee deems
appropriate.  Without limiting the generality of the preceding
sentence, if the grant or vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock granted to a
Named Executive Officer is designed to comply with the requirements of the
Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems
appropriate to the payment of dividends declared with respect to such Shares of
Restricted Stock, such that the dividends and/or the Shares of Restricted Stock
maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based Exception.  In the
event that any dividend constitutes a derivative security or an equity security
pursuant to the rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act, such dividend shall
be subject to a vesting period equal to the remaining vesting period of the
Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which the dividend is
paid.  

8.5.    Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .    The
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award
Document the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive
unvested Shares of Restricted Stock following termination of the Participant s
employment with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries or termination of service as
a Director.  Such provisions need not be uniform among all Shares of
Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based
on the reasons for termination of employment including; but not limited to,
termination of employment for Cause or for Good Reason, or reasons relating to
the breach or threatened breach of restrictive covenants; provided, however
that, except in the cases of terminations connected with a Change of Control and
terminations by reason of death or Disability, the vesting of Shares of
Restricted Stock that qualify for the Performance-Based Exception and that are
held by Named Executive Officers shall not occur before the time they otherwise
would have, but for the employment termination.  Subject to Section
15, in the event that a Participant s Award Document does not set forth such
termination provisions, the following termination provisions shall
apply:  

(a)   Death
and Disability  .
 Unless the Award qualifies for the Performance-Based Exception, if a
Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as a
Director is terminated due to death or Disability, all Shares of Restricted
Stock of such Participant shall immediately become fully vested on the date of
such termination and any restrictions shall lapse. 

(b)   Other
Termination  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director is terminated for any reason other than death or
Disability all Shares of Restricted Stock that are unvested at the date of
termination shall be forfeited to the Company. 

8.6.    Acceleration
of Vesting .  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8 to the
contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to
accelerate the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock at any
time.  

8.7.    Transferability  .   Except
as provided in this Section 8, the Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may
not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
hypothecated, voluntarily or involuntarily, until the end of the applicable
Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Award
Document, or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by
the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Award
Document.  All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock granted to
a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only
to such Participant.  

Section
9. 

        Performance
Units and Performance Shares 

9.1. 

Grant
      of Performance Units/Shares . 

(a)   Grant
of Performance Unit/Shares  .
    Subject
to the terms of the Plan, Performance Units and/or Performance Shares may be
granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and
from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee, which shall not be
inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan and shall be set forth in
an Award Document. 

(b)   Award
Document  .
 All Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be evidenced by an
Award Document.  The Award Document shall specify the initial value of
the Award, the performance goals and the Performance Period, as the Committee
shall determine, and which are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of
the Plan. 

9.2.     Value
of Performance Units/Shares  .    
Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value (which may be $0) that is
established by the Committee at the time of grant.  Each Performance
Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on
the grant date.  The Committee shall set performance goals in its sole
discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met will determine
the number and/or value of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares that will
be paid out to the Participant.  For purposes of this Section 9, the
time period during which the performance goals must be met shall be called a
Performance Period.  Performance Shares not in excess of five percent
of the number of shares that may be issued with respect to Awards of Performance
Shares, as provided in Section 4.1, may have a Performance Period as determined
by the Committee in its sole discretion, and any other Performance Shares shall
have a Performance Period, as determined by the Committee, of not less than one
year.  

9.3.    Earning
of Performance Units/Shares  .    
Subject to the terms of the Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has
ended, the holder of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares shall be
entitled to receive payout on the number and value of Performance Units and/or
Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be
determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance
goals have been achieved, as established by the Committee.  

9.4.    Form
and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Shares  .    
Except as provided below, payment of earned Performance Units and/or Performance
Shares shall be made in a single lump sum as soon as reasonably practicable
following the close of the applicable Performance Period.  Subject to
the terms of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned
Performance Units and/or Performance Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or
in a combination thereof) which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the
value of the earned Performance Units and/or Performance Shares at the close of
the applicable Performance Period.  Such Shares may be granted subject
to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.  At the sole
discretion of the Committee, Participants may be entitled to receive any
dividends declared with respect to Shares which have been earned in connection
with grants of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares which have been
earned, but not yet distributed to Participants.  

9.5.    Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .    The
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award
Document the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive
payment for Performance Units and/or Performance Shares following termination of
the Participant s employment with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries or
termination of service as a Director.  Such provisions need not be
uniform among all Performance Units and/or Performance Shares granted pursuant
to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for such
termination including; but not limited to, termination for Cause or for Good
Reason, or reasons relating to the breach or threatened breach of restrictive
covenants.  Subject to Section 15, in the event that a Participant s
Award Document does not set forth such termination provisions, the following
termination provisions shall apply:  

(a)   Long
Service Separation, Death or Disability  .
 Subject to Section 15, if a Participant s employment with the Company
and/or any Subsidiary or service as a Director is terminated during a
Performance Period due to Long Service Termination, death or Disability, the
Participant shall receive a prorated payout of the Performance Units and/or
Performance Shares, unless the Committee determines otherwise.  The
prorated payout shall be determined by the Committee, shall be based upon the
length of time that the Participant held the Performance Units and/or
Performance Shares during the Performance Period, and shall further be adjusted
based on the achievement of the preestablished performance
goals.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise in the event of a
termination due to death, Disability or Long Service Separation, payment of
earned Performance Units and/or Performance Shares shall be made at the same
time as payments are made to Participants who did not terminate employment
during the applicable Performance Period. 

(b)   Other
Termination  .
 If a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or
service as a Director is terminated during a Performance Period for any reason
other than Long Service Termination, death or Disability all Performance Units
and/or Performance Shares shall be forfeited by the Participant to the
Company. 

9.6.    Nontransferability  .    
Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Document, Performance
Units and/or Performance Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned,
or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a
Participant s Award Document, a Participant s rights under the Plan shall be
exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant or the
Participant s legal representative.  

9.7.    Acceleration
of Vesting.   Notwithstanding anything in this Section 9 to the
contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to
accelerate the vesting of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares at any
time.  

Section
10. 

        Performance
Measures 

10.1.    Performance
Measures .  Unless and until the Committee proposes for
stockholder vote and stockholders approve a change in the general performance
measures set forth in this Section 10, the attainment of which may determine the
degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards to Named Executive
Officers that are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the
performance goals to be used for purposes of such grants shall be established by
the Committee in writing and stated in terms of the attainment of specified
levels of or percentage changes in any one or more of the following
measurements: (a) revenue; (b) primary or fully-diluted earnings per Share; (c)
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and/or amortization; (d) pretax
income; (d) cash flow from operations; (e) total cash flow; (f) return on
equity; (g) return on invested capital; (h) return on assets; (i) net operating
profits after taxes; (j) economic value added; (k) total stockholder return; (l)
return on sales; or (m) any individual performance objective which is measured
solely in terms of quantifiable targets related to the Company or the Company s
business; or any combination thereof.  In addition, such performance
goals may be based in whole or in part upon the performance of the Company, a
Subsidiary, division and/or other operational unit under one or more of such
measures.  

10.2.    Performance
Procedures .  The degree of payout and/or vesting of such Awards
designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception shall be determined
based upon the written certification of the Committee as to the extent to which
the performance goals and any other material terms and conditions precedent to
such payment and/or vesting have been satisfied.  The Committee shall
have the sole discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of
attainment of the preestablished performance goals; provided, however, that the
performance goals applicable to Awards which are designed to qualify for the
Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by Named Executive Officers, may
not be adjusted so as to increase the payment under the Award (the Committee
shall retain the sole discretion to adjust such performance goals upward, or to
otherwise reduce the amount of the payment and/or vesting of the Award relative
to the pre-established performance goals).  In the event that
applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee sole discretion
to alter the governing performance measures without obtaining stockholder
approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such
changes without obtaining stockholder approval.  In addition, in the
event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards which
shall not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make
such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and,
thus, which use performance measures other than those specified
above.  

Section
11. 

        Award
Forfeitures 

11.1.    Forfeiture
of Options and Other Awards  .    
Each Award granted hereunder shall be subject to the following additional
forfeiture conditions, to which the Participant, by accepting an Award
hereunder, agrees.  If any of the events specified in Section 11.2
occurs (a  Forfeiture Event ), all of the following forfeitures will
result:  

(a)  The
unexercised portion of any Option, whether or not vested, and any other Award
not then settled (except for an Award that has not been settled solely due to an
elective deferral pursuant to Section 13 by the Participant and otherwise is not
forfeitable in the event of any termination of service of the Participant) will
be immediately forfeited and canceled upon the occurrence of the Forfeiture
Event; and 

(b)  The
Participant will be obligated to repay to the Company, in cash, within five
business days after demand is made therefor by the Company, the total amount of
Award Gain (as defined herein) realized by the Participant upon each exercise of
an Option or settlement of an Award (regardless of any elective deferral
pursuant to Section 13) that occurred on or after (i) the date that is six
months before the occurrence of the Forfeiture Event, if the Forfeiture Event
occurred while the Participant was employed by the Company or a Subsidiary, or
(ii) the date that is six months before the date the Participant s employment
by, or service as a Director with the Company or a Subsidiary terminated, if the
Forfeiture Event occurred after the Participant ceased to be so
employed. 

11.2.    Events
Triggering Forfeiture  .    The
forfeitures specified in Section 11.1 will be triggered upon the occurrence of
any one of the following Forfeiture Events at any time during the Participant s
employment by or service as a Director with the Company or a Subsidiary or
during the one-year period following termination of such employment or
service:  

(a)   Non-Solicitation  .   The
Participant, for his or her own benefit or for the benefit of any other person,
company or entity, directly or indirectly, (i) induces or attempts to induce or
hires or otherwise counsels, induces or attempts to induce or hire or otherwise
counsel, advise, encourage or solicit any person to leave the employment of or
the service for the Company or any Subsidiary, (ii) hires or in any manner
employs or retains the services of any individual employed by or providing
services to the Company or any Subsidiary as of the date of his or her
termination of employment, or employed by or providing services to the Company
or any Subsidiary subsequent to such termination, (iii) solicits, pursues, calls
upon or takes away, any of the customers of the Company or any Subsidiary, (iv)
solicits, pursues, calls upon or takes away, any potential customer of the
Company or any Subsidiary that has been the subject of a bid, offer or proposal
by the Company or any Subsidiary, or of substantial preparation with a view to
making such a bid, proposal or offer, within six months before such
Participant s termination of employment with the Company or any Subsidiary, or
(v) otherwise interferes with the business or accounts of the Company or any
Subsidiary. 

(b)   Confidential
Information  .
 The Participant discloses to any person or entity or makes use of any
 confidential or proprietary information  (as defined below in this subparagraph
(b)) for his or her own purpose or for the benefit of any person or entity,
except as may be necessary in the ordinary course of employment with or other
service to the Company or any Subsidiary.  Such  confidential or
proprietary information  of the Company or any Subsidiary, includes, but is not
limited to, the design, development, operation, building or manufacturing of
products manufactured and supplied by the Company and its Subsidiaries, the
identity of the Company s or any Subsidiary s customers, the identity of
representatives of customers with whom the Company or any Subsidiary has dealt,
the kinds of services provided by the Company or any Subsidiary to customers and
offered to be performed for potential customers, the manner in which such
services are performed or offered to be performed, the service needs of actual
or prospective customers, pricing information, information concerning the
creation, acquisition or disposition of products and services, customer
maintenance listings, computer software and hardware applications and other
programs, personnel information, information identifying, relating to or
concerning investors in the Company or any Subsidiary, joint venture partners of
the Company or any Subsidiary, business partners of the Company or any
Subsidiary or other entities providing financing to the Company or any
Subsidiary, real estate and leasing opportunities, communications and
telecommunications operations and processes, zoning and licensing matters,
relationships with, or matters involving, landlords and/or property owners, and
other trade secrets. 

11.3.    Agreement
Does Not Prohibit Competition or Other Participant Activities  .   Although
the conditions set forth in this Section 11 shall be deemed to be incorporated
into an Award, the Plan does not thereby prohibit the Participant from engaging
in any activity, including but not limited to competition with the Company and
its Subsidiaries.  Rather, the non-occurrence of the Forfeiture Events
set forth in Section 11.2 is a condition to the Participant s right to realize
and retain value from his or her compensatory Awards, and the consequence under
the Plan if the Participant engages in an activity giving rise to any such
Forfeiture Event are the forfeitures specified herein.  This provision
shall not preclude the Company and the Participant from entering into other
written agreements concerning the subject matter of Sections 11.1 and 11.2
and, to the extent any terms of this Section 11 are inconsistent with any
express terms of such agreement, this Section 11 shall not be deemed to modify
or amend such terms.  

11.4.    Committee
Discretion  .    
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, waive in whole or in part the
Company s right to forfeiture under this Section 11, but no such waiver shall be
effective unless evidenced by a writing signed by a duly authorized officer of
the Company.  In addition, the Committee may impose additional
conditions on Awards, by inclusion of appropriate provisions in the Award
Document.  Nothing contained herein shall require the Committee to
enforce the forfeiture provisions of this Section 11.  Failure to
enforce these forfeiture provisions against any individual shall not be
construed as a waiver of the Company s right to forfeiture under this Section
11.  

11.5.    Clawback
Provision  .   Notwithstanding
any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including Section 16.1 which
prohibits material- and adverse changes to any outstanding Award, any
Participant who is an officer of the Company whose negligent, intentional or
gross misconduct contributes to the Company s having to restate all or a portion
of its financial statements, will be required to forfeit Awards granted under
this Plan and repay the Company the total amount of Award Gain realized by the
Participant upon the exercise of an Option or settlement of an Award, as
determined by the Board of Directors, an authorized committee, or its designee,
pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, as
adopted on February 14, 2007 and any subsequent amendments.  Any
Awards granted under this Plan prior to February 14, 2007 are subject to the
provisions of this Section 11.5 only with the written consent of the
Participant.  

Section
12. 

        Beneficiary
Designation 

12.1.    Beneficiary
Designations .  Each Participant under the Plan may, from time
to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or
successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or
her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit.  Each
such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant,
shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when
filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant s
lifetime.  In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining
unpaid at the Participant s death shall be paid to the Participant s
estate.  

Section
13. 

        Deferrals 

13.1.    Deferrals .  The
Committee may permit a Participant to defer such Participant s receipt of the
payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such
Participant upon the exercise of any Option or by virtue of the lapse or waiver
of restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock, or the satisfaction of any
requirements or goals with respect to Performance Units/Shares.  If
any such deferral election is required or permitted, the Committee shall, in its
sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment
deferrals.  All such deferrals (and rules and procedures) shall be
consistent with Code Section 409A and any other applicable
law.  

Section
14. 

        Rights
and Obligations of Parties 

14.1.    No
Guarantee of Employment or Service Rights  .    
Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the
Company to terminate any Participant s employment at any time, nor confer upon
any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any
Subsidiary.  

14.2.    Temporary
Absence  .   For
purposes of the Plan, temporary absence from employment because of illness,
vacation, approved leaves of absence, and transfers of employment among the
Company and its Subsidiaries, shall not be considered to terminate employment or
to interrupt continuous employment.  

14.3.    Participation  .    No
Employee or Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award
under the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future
Award.  

14.4.    Right
of Setoff  .    
The Company or any Subsidiary may, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
deduct from and set off against any amounts the Company or Subsidiary may owe to
the Participant from time to time, including amounts payable in connection with
any Award, owed as wages, fringe benefits, or other compensation owed to the
Participant, such amounts as may be owed by the Participant to the Company,
although the Participant shall remain liable for any part of the Participant s
payment obligation not satisfied through such deduction and
setoff.  By accepting any Award granted hereunder, the Participant
agrees to any deduction or setoff under this Section 14.  

14.5.    Section
83(b) Election  .    
No   election
under Section 83(b) of the Code (to include in gross income in the year of
transfer the amounts specified in Code Section 83(b)) or under a similar
provision of the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States may be made,
unless expressly permitted by the terms of the Award Document or by action of
the Committee in writing before the making of such election.  In any
case in which a Participant is permitted to make such an election in connection
with an Award, the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within
ten days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service or
other governmental authority, in addition to any filing and notification
required pursuant to regulations issued under Code Section 83(b) or other
applicable provision.  

14.6.    Disqualifying
Disposition Notification  .    
If any Participant shall make any disposition of Shares delivered pursuant to
the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in
Code Section 421(b) (relating to certain disqualifying dispositions), such
Participant shall notify the Company of such disposition within ten days
thereof.  

Section
15. 

        Change
of Control 

15.1.    Change
of Control .  If a Participant s employment or service with the
Company and/or any Subsidiary terminates either without Cause or for Good Reason
within the 12 month period following a Change of Control, unless otherwise
specifically prohibited under applicable laws, or by the rules and regulations
of any governing governmental agencies or national securities
exchanges:  

(a)  Any
and all Options and SARs granted hereunder shall become immediately exercisable,
and shall remain exercisable throughout their entire term; 

(b)  Any
Period of Restriction and other restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock shall
lapse; and 

(c)  Unless
otherwise specified in an Award Document, the maximum payout opportunities
attainable under all outstanding Awards of Performance Units and Performance
Shares shall be deemed to have been fully earned for the entire Performance
Period(s) as of the effective date of the Change of Control.  The
vesting of all such Awards shall be accelerated as of the effective date of the
Change of Control, and in full settlement of such Awards, there shall be paid
out in cash to Participants within 30 days following the effective date of the
Change of Control the maximum of payout opportunities associated with such
outstanding Awards. 

Section
16. 

        Amendment,
Modification, and Termination 

16.1.    Amendment,
Modification, and Termination  .    
The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or the Committee s authority
to grant Awards under the Plan without the consent of stockholders or
Participants; provided, however, that any amendment to the Plan shall be
submitted to the Company s stockholders for approval not later than the earliest
annual meeting for which the record date is after the date of such Board action
if such stockholder approval is required by any federal or state law or
regulation or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on
which the Shares may then be listed or quoted and the Board may otherwise, in
its sole discretion, determine to submit other amendments to the Plan to
stockholders for approval; and provided further, that, without the written
consent of an affected Participant, no such Board action may materially and
adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any outstanding
Award.  The Committee shall have no authority to waive or modify any
other Award term after the Award has been granted to the extent that the waived
or modified term was mandatory under the Plan.  

Section
17. 

        Withholding 

17.1.    Tax
Withholding  .    
The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require
a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal,
state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be
withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of the
Plan.  

17.2.    Share
Withholding  .    
With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon
the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock, or upon any other taxable event
arising as a result of Awards granted hereunder, the withholding requirement
shall be satisfied by the Company withholding Shares having a Fair Market Value
on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax
which would be imposed on the transaction.  

Section
18. 

        Miscellaneous 

18.1.    Unfunded
Plan  .    
The Plan is intended to constitute an  unfunded  plan for incentive and deferred
compensation.  With respect to any payments not yet made to a
Participant or obligation to deliver Shares pursuant to an Award, nothing
contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Participant any rights
that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company; provided that
the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts and deposit therein cash,
Shares, other Awards or other property, or make other arrangements to meet the
Company s obligations under the Plan.  Such trusts or other
arrangements shall be consistent with the  unfunded  status of the Plan unless
the Committee otherwise determines with the consent of each affected
Participant.  No such funding shall be established that would cause an
amount to be taxable under Code Section 409A before it is received by a
Participant or cause an amount to be subject to additional tax under such
Section.  

18.2.    Forfeitures;
Fractional Shares  .   Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, in the event of a forfeiture of an Award
with respect to which a Participant paid cash consideration, the Participant
shall be repaid the amount of such cash consideration.  No fractional
Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any
Award.  The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards or
other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional Shares or
whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or
otherwise eliminated.  

18.3.    Compliance
with Code Section 162(m)  .    
The Company intends that Options and SARs granted to Named Executive Officers
and other Awards designated as Awards to Named Executive Officers shall
constitute qualified  performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Code
Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee at the time of allocation of an Award.  Accordingly, the
terms of Sections 4.2, 6, 7, 8.5, 8.6, 9 and 10, including the definitions of
Named Executive Officer and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a
manner consistent with Code Section 162(m) and regulations
thereunder.  The foregoing notwithstanding, because the Committee
cannot determine with certainty whether a given Participant will be a Named
Executive Officer with respect to a fiscal year that has not yet been completed,
the Committee may, in its discretion, extend the terms of such Sections to any
Participant that the Committee deems appropriate.  If any provision of
the Plan or any Award Document relating to a Performance Award that is
designated as intended to comply with Code Section 162(m) does not comply or is
inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m) or regulations
thereunder, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent
necessary to conform to such requirements, and no provision shall be deemed to
confer upon the Committee or any other person sole discretion to increase the
amount of compensation otherwise payable in connection with any such Award upon
attainment of the applicable performance objectives.  

18.4.    Gender
and Number; Headings  .    
Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein
also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the
singular shall include the plural.  Headings are included for the
convenience of reference only and shall not be used in the interpretation or
construction of any such provision contained in the Plan.  

18.5.    Severability  .    
In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any
reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the
Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid
provision had not been included.  

18.6.    Successors .  All
obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted
hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the
existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect merger,
consolidation, purchase of all or substantially all of the business and/or
assets of the Company or otherwise.  

18.7.    Requirements
of Law  .    
The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be
subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by
any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be
required.  

18.8.    Securities
Law Compliance  .    With
respect to  insiders,  transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with
all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the Exchange
Act.  To the extent any provision of the Plan or action by the
Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent
permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Committee.  An  insider 
includes any individual who is, on the relevant date, an officer, Director or
more than 10% beneficial owner of any class of the Company s equity securities
that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, all as defined
under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

18.9.    Governing
Law  .    To
the extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder,
shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of
Illinois without regard to the conflict of law provisions
thereof.  

This
Plan Restatement shall be effective December 19,
2008. 

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.7>
 4
 ex_10-7.htm
 DIRECTORS' CHARITABLE AWARD PROGRAM

ex_10-7.htm 

Exhibit
10.7 

CATERPILLAR
INC. 

DIRECTORS 
CHARITABLE AWARD PROGRAM 

(Amended and
Restated effective as of April 1, 2008) 

1. 

PURPOSE OF
      THE PROGRAM 

Under the
Caterpillar Inc. Directors  Charitable Award Program (the  Program ),
Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) will make a donation of up to $1,000,000 in
memory of each eligible Director.  The donation will be made by the
Company, in the Director s name, in ten equal annual installments, with the
first installment to be made as soon as is practicable after the Director s
death.  Of the total donation amount, 50% will be donated to one or
more eligible tax-exempt organizations (the  Donee(s) ) recommended by the
Director, and the remaining portion of the donation will be made to the
Caterpillar Foundation (the  Foundation ). The purpose of the Program is to
acknowledge the service of the Company s Directors, recognize the interest of
the Company and its Directors in supporting worthy educational institutions and
charitable organizations, provide an additional means of support to the
Foundation, and enhance the Company s Director benefit program so that the
Company is able to continue to attract and retain Directors of the highest
caliber. 

2. 

ELIGIBILITY 

All persons serving
as Directors of the Company as of April 1, 1993 shall be eligible to participate
in the Program. All Directors who join the Company s Board of Directors after
that date but before April 1, 2008 shall be immediately eligible to participate
in the Program upon election to the Board.  A Director who joins the
Board on or after April 1, 2008 shall not be eligible to participate in the
Program. 

3. 

DONATION
      AMOUNT 

While serving as a
Director, the donation amount for a Director will be determined based on the
Director s months of Board service, in accordance with the following
schedule: 

A Director will
continue to be eligible to participate in the program after he or she terminates
Board service.  The total donation amount in effect on the date a
Director s Board service terminates shall be continued based upon his or her
months of service on that date.  However, notwithstanding this
schedule, a Director will be treated as having served for 60 or more months if
he or she terminates Board service as a result of disability or mandatory
retirement. 

In determining a
Director s total donation amount, Board service prior to the effective date of
the Program (even if it is not continuous service) will be counted. 

4. 

RECOMMENDATION
      OF DONATION 

When a Director
becomes eligible to participate in the Program, he or she shall make a written
recommendation to the Company, on a form approved by the Company for this
purpose, designating the Donee(s) which he or she intends to be the recipient(s)
of the Company donation to be made on his or her behalf. A Director may revise
or revoke any such recommendation prior to his or her death by signing a new
recommendation form and submitting it to the Company.  Each eligible
Director may choose one Donee to receive a Company donation of $500,000, or up
to five Donees to receive donations aggregating $500,000.  Each
recommended Donee must be recommended to receive a donation of at least
$100,000. 

5. 

TIMING AND
      PAYMENT OF DONATION 

The donation made
on a Director s behalf will be made by the Company in ten equal annual
installments, with the first installment to be made as soon as is practicable
after the Director s death.  The first five installments (the Donee
installments) will be donated to the Donee(s) recommended by the Director, and
the last five installments (the Foundation installments) will be donated to the
Foundation.  If a Director recommends more than one Donee to receive a
donation, each will receive a prorated portion of each Donee installment, unless
otherwise requested by the Director and approved by the Company.  If a
Donee is not in existence or is not an eligible tax-exempt organization at the
time of payment, then the portion otherwise payable to that Donee will instead
be paid to the other qualified Donees recommended by the Director in proportion
to their respective shares or, if none, to the Foundation. 

In order to be
eligible to receive a donation, a recommended organization must be an
educational institution or charitable organization described in Sections 170(b)
and 2055(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, or any successor provision, and must
initially, and at the time a donation is to be made, qualify to receive
tax-deductible donations under the Internal Revenue Code. Also, the organization
must be reviewed and approved by the Vice President and Manager of the
Foundation.  An organization will be approved unless it is determined,
in the exercise of good faith judgment, that a donation to the organization
would be detrimental to the best interests of the Company.  Private
foundations (except for the Foundation) are not eligible to receive donations
under the Program. 

7. 

FUNDING AND
      PROGRAM ASSETS 

The Company may
fund the Program or it may choose not to fund the Program.  If the
Company elects to fund the Program in any manner, neither the Directors nor
their recommended Donee(s) shall have any rights or interests in any assets of
the Company identified for such purpose.  Nothing contained in the
Program shall create, or be deemed to create, a trust, actual or constructive,
for the benefit of a Director or any Donee recommended by a Director to receive
a donation, or shall give, or be deemed to give, any Director or recommended
Donee any personal financial interest in or tax benefit from any assets of the
Program or the Company.  If the Company elects to fund the Program
through life insurance policies, a participating Director must cooperate and
fulfill the enrollment requirements necessary to obtain insurance on his or her
life. 

8. 

AMENDMENT OR
      TERMINATION 

The Board of
Directors of the Company may, at any time, without the consent of the Directors
participating in the Program, amend, suspend, or terminate the
Program. 

9. 

ADMINISTRATION 

The Program shall
be administered by the Company. The Company shall have plenary authority in its
discretion, but subject to the provisions of the Program, to prescribe, amend,
and rescind rules, regulations and procedures relating to the
Program.  The Company shall have sole discretion to construe and
interpret the terms of the Program and to resolve all questions arising under
the Program.  The determinations of the Company on the foregoing
matters shall be conclusive and binding on all interested parties. 

It is intended that
the benefits under this Program do not result in taxable compensation to any
Director or provide for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section
409A of the Internal Revenue Code, or any successor provision. 

The Program shall
be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois, and
all provisions thereof shall be administered according to the laws of said
State. 

The Program was
originally effective as of April 1, 1993.  The effective date of
the amended and restated Program is April 1, 2008.  The recommendation
of an individual Director will be effective when he or she completes all
enrollment requirements. 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-11>
 5
 ex_11.htm
 COMP OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

ex_11.htm 

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 6
 ex_12.htm
 COMP OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

ex_12.htm 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 7
 ex_13.htm
 2008 GENERAL & FINANCIAL INFORMATION

ex_13.htm 

EXHIBIT
13 

CATERPILLAR INC. 

        GENERAL
AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

        2008 

Page A-1  

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS 

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
      Reporting  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm  

Consolidated Financial Statements  and  Notes   

Five-year Financial Summary   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations (MD A)  

Overview  

2008 Compared with 2007   

Fourth Quarter 2008 Compared with Fourth Quarter
      2007   

2007 Compared with 2006   

Glossary of Terms   

Liquidity and Capital
  Resources   

Critical Accounting Policies  

Employment    

Other Matters  

Non-GAAP Financial
    Measures    

Outlook    

Supplemental Stockholder
      Information    

Directors and
Officers   

Page A-2  

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT  ON 

                          INTERNAL
      CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

The management of
Caterpillar Inc. (company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management assessed
the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework . Based on our assessment we concluded that,
as of December 31, 2008, the company's internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria. 

Management has
excluded Caterpillar Japan Ltd. from our assessment of internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 because Caterpillar Japan Ltd. was
consolidated by the company on August 1, 2008.  Caterpillar Japan Ltd.
is a 67 percent owned subsidiary of the company with  total assets and
total revenues representing 5% and less than 1%, respectively, of the related
consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December
31, 2008.  Prior to consolidation, the company accounted for its
investment in this entity under the equity method. 

The effectiveness of
the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm. Their report appears on page A-4. 

/s/
      James W. Owens     

James W.
      Owens 

                            Chairman of
      the Board 

                            and Chief
      Executive Officer 

/s/
      David B. Burritt    

David B.
      Burritt 

                            Vice President
      and 

                             Chief
      Financial Officer 

February 19,
      2009 

Page A-3  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
      FIRM  

To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Caterpillar Inc.: 

In our opinion, the
accompanying consolidated statement of financial position and the related
statements of consolidated results of operations, changes in stockholders'
equity, and cash flow, including pages A-5 through A-60, present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Caterpillar Inc. and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's
management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing on
page A-3.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these
financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our
audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our
audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinions. 

As discussed in Note
1K to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in
which it measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value in 2008, the
manner in which it accounts for uncertainty in income taxes in 2007, and the
manner in which it accounts for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
plans, effective December 31, 2006. 

A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

As described in
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management has
excluded Caterpillar Japan Ltd. from its assessment of internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 because Caterpillar Japan Ltd. was
consolidated by the Company on August 1, 2008.  We have also excluded
Caterpillar Japan Ltd. from our audit of internal control over financial
reporting.  Caterpillar Japan Ltd. is a 67 percent owned subsidiary of
the Company with total assets and total revenues representing 5% and less than
1%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of
and for the year ended December 31, 2008.  Prior to consolidation, the
Company accounted for its investment in this entity under the equity
method. 

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

                    Peoria,
Illinois 

                    February 19,
2009 

Page A-4  

Consolidated Financial Statements  

1  

Diluted by
      assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury
      stock method. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

Page A-5  

See accompanying notes to
      Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

Page A-6  

(Continued) 

Page A-7  

1  

Pension and
      other postretirement benefits include net adjustments for Cat Japan Ltd,
      while they were an unconsolidated affiliate, of $(9) million and $(6)
      million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.   The ending
      balances are $(52) million and $(43) million as of December 31, 2007 and
      2006, respectively.  See Note 25 regarding the Cat Japan share
      redemption. 

2  

Adjustments to
      profit employed in the business and pension and other postemployment
      benefits were net of tax of $(17) million and $9 million,
      respectively. 

3  

Amount
      consists of $1,800 million of cash-settled purchases and $94 million of
      derivative contracts. 

4  

See Note 25
      regarding the Cat Japan share redemption. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

Page A-8  

All
      short-term investments, which consist primarily of highly liquid
      investments with original maturities of three months or less, are
      considered to be cash equivalents. 

Non-cash
      activities: 

On June 19,
      2006, Caterpillar acquired 100 percent of the equity in Progress Rail
      Services, Inc.  A portion of the acquisition was financed with
      5.3 million shares of Caterpillar stock with a fair value of $379 million
      as of the acquisition date.  See Note 25 for further
      discussion. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

Page A-9  

NOTES  TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
  STATEMENTS 

1. 

Operations
      and summary of significant accounting policies 

A. 

Nature
      of operations 

We operate in
      three principal lines of business: 

(1) 

Machinery   A principal
      line of business which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and
      sales of construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel
      tractors, track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products,  skid steer loaders and related parts. Also includes
      logistics services for other companies and the design, manufacture,
      remanufacture, maintenance and services of rail-related
      products. 

(2) 

Engines     A
      principal line of business including the design, manufacture, marketing
      and sales of engines for Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation
      systems; on-highway vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum,
      construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications; and related
      parts.  Also includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and
      a variety of Caterpillar machine and engine components and remanufacturing
      services for other companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power
      needs ranging from 10 to 21,700 horsepower (8 to over 16 000
      kilowatts).  Turbines range from 1,600 to 30,000 horsepower (1
      200 to 22 000 kilowatts). 

(3) 

Financial Products   A
      principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc.
      (Cat Insurance), Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation (Cat Power
      Ventures) and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat Financial
      provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and dealers
      for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well as other
      equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also extends loans
      to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides various forms
      of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and
      lease of our equipment.  Cat Power Ventures is an investor in
      independent power projects using Caterpillar power generation equipment
      and services. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations are highly integrated. Throughout the Notes,
      Machinery and Engines represents the aggregate total of these principal
      lines of business. 

Our products
      are sold primarily under the brands "Caterpillar," "CAT," design versions
      of "CAT" and "Caterpillar," "Solar Turbines,"  MaK," "Perkins," "FG
      Wilson," "Olympian" and  Progress Rail.  

We conduct
      operations in our Machinery and Engines lines of business under highly
      competitive conditions, including intense price competition. We place
      great emphasis on the high quality and performance of our products and our
      dealers' service support. Although no one competitor is believed to
      produce all of the same types of machines and engines that we do, there
      are numerous companies, large and small, which compete with us in the sale
      of each of our products. 

Machines are
      distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers
      (dealer network), 52 located in the United States and 128 located outside
      the United States. Worldwide, these dealers serve 182 countries and
      operate 3,537 places of business, including 1,467 dealer rental outlets.
      Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and
      to other manufacturers for use in products manufactured by them. Some of
      the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins are also sold through a
      worldwide network of 131 distributors located in 172 countries. The FG
      Wilson branded electric power generation systems are sold through a
      worldwide network of 157 dealers located in 180 countries. Our dealers do
      not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and
      servicing of our products are the dealers' principal business. Turbines
      and large medium speed reciprocating engines are sold through sales forces
      employed by the company. At times, these employees are assisted by
      independent sales representatives. 

Manufacturing
      activities of the Machinery and Engines lines of business are conducted in
      99 plants in the United States; 13 in the United Kingdom; nine in Italy;
      eight in China and Mexico; five each in Canada and France; Four in Brazil;
      three each in Australia, India and Poland; two each in Germany,
      Indonesia, Japan, the Netherlands and Northern Ireland; and one each
      in Belgium, Hungary, Malaysia, Nigeria, Russia, South Africa, Sweden,
      Switzerland and Tunisia. Thirteen parts distribution centers are located
      in the United States and 16 are located outside the United
      States. 

The Financial
      Products line of business also conducts operations under highly
      competitive conditions. Financing for users of Caterpillar products is
      available through a variety of competitive sources, principally commercial
      banks and finance and leasing companies. We emphasize prompt and
      responsive service to meet customer requirements and offer various
      financing plans designed to increase the opportunity for sales of our
      products and generate financing income for our company. Financial Products
      activity is conducted primarily in the United States, with additional
      offices in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and Latin
    America. 

Page A-10  

B. 

Basis
      of consolidation 

The financial
      statements include the accounts of Caterpillar Inc. and its
      subsidiaries.  Investments in companies that are owned 20% to
      50% or are less than 20% owned and for which we have significant influence
      are accounted for by the equity method (see Note 11). 

We consolidate
      all variable interest entities where Caterpillar Inc. is the primary
      beneficiary.  For variable interest entities, we assess whether
      we are the primary beneficiary as prescribed by FASB Interpretation 46R,
       Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of
      Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51  (FIN 46R).  The primary
      beneficiary of a variable interest entity is the party that absorbs a
      majority of the entity s expected losses, receives a majority of its
      expected residual returns, or both. 

Certain
      amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with the
      current-year financial statement presentation. 

Shipping and
      handling costs are included in Cost of goods sold in Statement
      1.  Other operating expense primarily includes Cat Financial's
      depreciation of equipment leased to others, Cat Insurance s underwriting
      expenses, gains (losses) on disposal of long-lived assets, long-lived
      asset impairment charges and employee separation charges. 

Prepaid
      expenses and other current assets in Statement 2 include prepaid rent,
      prepaid insurance and other prepaid items.  In addition, at
      December 31, 2008, this line included a security deposit of $232 million
      related to a deposit obligation due in 2009, while at December 31,
      2006, this line included a security deposit of $249 million related to a
      deposit obligation due in 2007. See Note 16 for further
      discussion. 

C. 

Sales
      and revenue recognition 

Sales of
      Machinery and Engines are generally recognized when title transfers and
      the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to customers or
      independently owned and operated dealers.  Typically, where
      product is produced and sold in the same country, title and risk of
      ownership transfer when the product is shipped.  Products that
      are exported from a country for sale typically pass title and risk of
      ownership at the border of the destination country. 

No right of
      return exists on sales of equipment.  Replacement part returns
      are estimable and accrued at the time a sale is recognized. 

We provide
      discounts to dealers and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) through
      merchandising programs that are administered by our marketing
      divisions.  We have numerous programs that are designed to
      promote the sale of our products.  The most common dealer
      programs provide a discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted
      end user.  OEM programs provide discounts designed to encourage
      the use of our engines. The cost of these discounts is estimated based on
      historical experience and known changes in merchandising programs and is
      reported as a reduction to sales when the product sale is
      recognized.    

Our standard
      invoice terms are established by marketing region. When a sale is made to
      a dealer, the dealer is responsible for payment even if the product is not
      sold to an end customer and must make payment within the standard terms to
      avoid interest costs. Interest at or above prevailing market rates is
      charged on any past due balance. Our policy is to not forgive this
      interest. In 2008 terms were extended to not more than one year for $544
      million of receivables, which represent approximately 1% of consolidated
      sales.   In 2007 and 2006, terms were extended to not more
      than one year for  $219 million  and
      $49 million of receivables, respectively, which represent less than
      1% of consolidated sales. 

Page A-11  

Revenues of
      Financial Products primarily represent the following Cat Financial
      revenues: 

Retail
      (end-customer) finance revenue on finance leases and installment sale
      contracts is recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate
      of return on the scheduled outstanding principal
      balance.  Revenue on retail notes is recognized based on the
      daily balance of retail receivables outstanding and the applicable
      effective interest rate. 

Operating
      lease revenue is recorded on a straight-line basis in the period earned
      over the life of the contract. 

Wholesale
      (dealer) finance revenue on installment contracts and finance leases is
      recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate of return on
      the scheduled outstanding principal balance.  Revenue on
      wholesale notes is recognized based on the daily balance of wholesale
      receivables outstanding and the applicable effective interest
      rate. 

Loan
      origination and commitment fees are deferred and then amortized to revenue
      using the interest method over the life of the finance
      receivables. 

Recognition of
      income is suspended when collection of future income is not probable.
      Accrual is resumed, and previously suspended income is recognized, when
      the receivable becomes contractually current and/or collection doubts are
      removed. Cat Financial provides wholesale inventory financing to dealers.
      See Notes 7 and 8 for more information. 

Sales and
      revenue recognition items are presented net of sales and other related
      taxes. 

D. 

Inventories 

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is principally determined
      using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The value of inventories on
      the LIFO basis represented about 70% of total inventories at December 31,
      2008, and about 75% of total inventories at December 31, 2007 and
      2006. 

If the FIFO
      (first-in, first-out) method had been in use, inventories would have been
      $3,183 million, $2,617 million and $2,403 million higher than reported at
      December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

E. 

Securitized
      receivables 

We
      periodically sell finance receivables in securitization transactions. When
      finance receivables are securitized, we retain interests in the
      receivables in the form of subordinated certificates, an interest in
      future cash flows (excess), reserve accounts and servicing rights. The
      retained interests are recorded in  Other assets  at fair value. We
      estimate fair value based on the present value of future expected cash
      flows using key assumptions for credit losses, prepayment rates and
      discount rates. See Note 8 and Note 19 for more information. 

F. 

Depreciation
      and amortization 

Depreciation
      of plant and equipment is computed principally using accelerated methods.
      Depreciation on equipment leased to others, primarily for Financial
      Products, is computed using the straight-line method over the term of the
      lease. The depreciable basis is the original cost of the equipment less
      the estimated residual value of the equipment at the end of the lease
      term. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Cat Financial depreciation on equipment
      leased to others was $724 million, $671 million and $631 million,
      respectively, and was included in "Other operating expenses" in Statement
      1. In 2008, 2007 and 2006 consolidated depreciation expense was $1,907
      million, $1,725 million and $1,554 million, respectively. Amortization of
      purchased intangibles is computed principally using the straight-line
      method, generally not to exceed a period of 20 years. 

G. 

Foreign
      currency translation 

The functional
      currency for most of our Machinery and Engines consolidated companies is
      the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our Financial
      Products and equity basis companies is the respective local currency.
      Gains and losses resulting from the translation of foreign currency
      amounts to the functional currency are included in "Other income
      (expense)" in Statement 1. Gains and losses resulting from translating
      assets and liabilities from the functional currency to U.S. dollars are
      included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income" in Statement
      2. 

Page A-12  

H. 

Derivative
      financial instruments 

Our earnings
      and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign
      currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity
      prices.  In addition, the amount of Caterpillar stock that can
      be repurchased under our stock repurchase program is impacted by movements
      in the price of the stock.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy)
      allows for the use of derivative financial instruments to prudently manage
      foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, commodity price and
      Caterpillar stock price exposures.  Our policy specifies that
      derivatives are not to be used for speculative
      purposes.  Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign
      currency forward and option contracts, interest rate swaps, commodity
      forward and option contracts and stock repurchase contracts. Our
      derivative activities are subject to the management, direction and control
      of our senior financial officers.  Risk management practices,
      including the use of financial derivative instruments, are presented to
      the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors at least
      annually. 

Payments for
      stock repurchase derivatives are accounted for as a reduction in
      stockholders  equity. All other derivatives are recognized on the
      Consolidated Financial Position at their fair value. On the date the
      derivative contract is entered, we designate the derivative as (1) a hedge
      of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability ("fair value" hedge),
      (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flow to
      be paid ("cash flow" hedge), or (3) an "undesignated" instrument. Changes
      in the fair value of a derivative that is qualified, designated and highly
      effective as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on the hedged
      liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in current
      earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is qualified,
      designated and highly effective as a cash flow hedge are recorded in other
      comprehensive income until earnings are affected by the forecasted
      transaction or the variability of cash flow and are then reported in
      current earnings. Changes in the fair value of undesignated derivative
      instruments and the ineffective portion of designated derivative
      instruments are reported in current earnings. Cash flows from designated
      derivative financial instruments are classified within the same category
      as the item being hedged on Statement 4.  Cash flows from
      undesignated derivative financial instruments are included in the
      investing category on Statement 4. 

We formally
      document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items,
      as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking
      various hedge transactions.  This process includes linking all
      derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges to specific assets
      and liabilities on the Consolidated Financial Position and linking cash
      flow hedges to specific forecasted transactions or variability of cash
      flow. 

We also
      formally assess, both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis,
      whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
      effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flow of hedged
      items. When it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective as
      a hedge or that it has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we
      discontinue hedge accounting prospectively, in accordance with Statement
      of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 (SFAS 133), "Accounting for
      Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."  See Note 3 for
      more information. 

I. 

Income
      taxes 

The provision
      for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach for
      accounting for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS 109), "Accounting for Income
      Taxes."  Tax laws require items to be included in tax filings at
      different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements.
      A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the
      current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences
      expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are
      recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax
      rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred
      tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be
      realized. 

J. 

Estimates
      in financial statements 

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
      management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts.
      The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased assets,
      fair values for goodwill impairment tests, impairment of
      available-for-sale securities, warranty liability, stock-based
      compensation and reserves for product liability and insurance losses,
      postemployment benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income
      taxes. 

K. 

New
      accounting standards 

SFAS 155    In February
      2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 155 (SFAS 155),  Accounting for Certain
      Hybrid Financial Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and
      140.   SFAS 155 allows financial instruments that have embedded
      derivatives to be accounted for as a whole, eliminating the need to
      separate the derivative from its host, if the holder elects to account for
      the whole instrument on a fair value basis.  This new accounting
      standard was effective January 1, 2007.  The adoption of SFAS
      155 did not have a material impact on our financial
      statements. 

Page A-13  

SFAS 156    In March
      2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 156
      (SFAS 156),  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets   an amendment
      of FASB Statement No. 140.   SFAS 156 requires that all
      separately recognized servicing rights be initially measured at fair
      value, if practicable.  In addition, this Statement permits an
      entity to choose between two measurement methods (amortization method or
      fair value measurement method) for each class of separately recognized
      servicing assets and liabilities.  This new accounting standard
      was effective January 1, 2007.  The adoption of SFAS 156 did not
      have a material impact on our financial statements. 

FIN 48    In June 2006,
      the FASB issued FIN 48  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
      interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  to create a single model to
      address accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 clarifies that
      a tax position must be more likely than not of being sustained before
      being recognized in the financial statements. As required, we adopted the
      provisions of FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007.  The following table
      summarizes the effect of the initial adoption of FIN 48. See Note 5 for
      additional information. 

Initial
      adoption of FIN 48 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

January 1,
      2007 

                                                                            Prior to
      FIN 48 Adjustment 

FIN 48
      Adjustment 

January 1,
      2007 

                                                                            Post
      FIN 48 Adjustment 

Deferred and
      refundable income taxes  

$ 

733 

$ 

82 

$ 

815 

Noncurrent
      deferred and refundable income taxes 

1,949 

211 

2,160 

Other current
      liabilities 

1,145 

(530 

) 

615 

Other
      liabilities 

1,209 

682 

1,891 

Profit
      employed in the business   

14,593 

141 

14,734 

SFAS 157    In September
      2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157
      (SFAS 157),  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS 157 provides a common
      definition of fair value and a framework for measuring assets and
      liabilities at fair values when a particular standard prescribes it. In
      addition, the Statement expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
      In February 2008, the FASB issued final Staff Positions that (1) deferred
      the effective date of this Statement for one year for certain nonfinancial
      assets and nonfinancial liabilities (see below) and (2) removed certain
      leasing transactions from the scope of the Statement.  We
      applied this new accounting standard to all other fair value measurements
      effective January 1, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 157 did not have a
      material impact on our financial statements. See Note 19 for additional
      information. 

FSP 157-2      In February 2008,
      the FASB issued FASB Staff Position on Statement 157 "Effective Date of
      FASB Statement No. 157" (FSP 157-2).  FSP 157-2 delays the
      effective date of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial
      liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed on a recurring
      basis, to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008.  Our
      significant nonfinancial assets and liabilities that could be impacted by
      this deferral include assets and liabilities initially measured at fair
      value in a business combination and goodwill tested annually for
      impairment.  The adoption of FSP 157-2 is not expected to have a
      material impact on our financial statements. 

FSP 157-3      In October 2008,
      the FASB issued FASB Staff Position on Statement 157 "Determining the Fair
      Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active 
      (FSP 157-3).  FSP 157-3 clarifies how SFAS 157 should be applied
      when valuing securities in markets that are not active by illustrating key
      considerations in determining fair value.  It also reaffirms the
      notion of fair value as the exit price as of the measurement
      date.  FSP 157-3 was effective upon issuance, which included
      periods for which financial statements have not yet been
      issued.  This new accounting standard has been adopted for our
      financial statements starting July 1, 2008.  The adoption of FSP
      157-3 did not have a material impact on our financial
      statements. 

SFAS 158    In September
      2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158
      (SFAS 158),  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
      Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
      132R.   SFAS 158 requires recognition of the overfunded or
      underfunded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on
      the balance sheet.  Under SFAS 158, gains and losses, prior
      service costs and credits and any remaining transition amounts under SFAS
      87 and SFAS 106 that have not yet been recognized through net periodic
      benefit cost are recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income
      (loss), net of tax effects, until they are amortized as a component of net
      periodic benefit cost. Also, the measurement date   the date at which the
      benefit obligation and plan assets are measured   is required to be the
      company s fiscal year-end. 

As required by
      SFAS 158, we adopted the balance sheet recognition provisions at December
      31, 2006. SFAS 87 required the recognition of an additional minimum
      liability (AML) if the market value of plan assets was less than the
      accumulated benefit obligation at the end of the measurement
      date.  The AML was eliminated upon the adoption of SFAS
      158.  The following summarizes the effect of the required
      changes in the AML, as well as the impact of the initial adoption of SFAS
      158, as of December 31, 2006. See Note 14 for additional information
      regarding postemployment
benefits. 

Page A-14  

We adopted the
      year-end measurement date effective January 1, 2008 using the  one
      measurement  approach.  Under the one measurement approach, net
      periodic benefit cost for the period between any early measurement date
      and the end of the fiscal year that the measurement provisions are applied
      is allocated proportionately between amounts to be recognized as an
      adjustment of Profit employed in the business and net periodic benefit
      cost for the fiscal year.  Previously, we used a November 30th
      measurement date for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit
      plans and September 30th for our non-U.S. plans.  The following
      summarizes the effect of adopting the year-end measurement date provisions
      as of January 1, 2008.  See Note 14 for additional
      information. 

SFAS 159    In February
      2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159
      (SFAS 159),  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
      Liabilities   including an amendment of SFAS No. 115.  SFAS 159 creates a
      fair value option under which an entity may irrevocably elect fair value
      as the initial and subsequent measurement attribute for certain financial
      assets and liabilities on a contract by contract basis, with changes in
      fair values recognized in earnings as these changes occur.  We
      adopted this new accounting standard on January 1, 2008. We have not
      elected to measure any financial assets or financial liabilities at fair
      value which were not previously required to be measured at fair value.
      Therefore, the adoption of SFAS 159 did not have a material impact on our
      financial statements. 

SFAS 141R  and SFAS
      160    In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007) (SFAS 141R),  Business
      Combinations,  and No. 160 (SFAS 160),  Noncontrolling Interests in
      Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51.  SFAS 141R
      requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize the
      assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Further, SFAS 141R also changes
      the accounting for acquired in-process research and development assets,
      contingent consideration, partial acquisitions and transaction
      costs.  Under SFAS 160, all entities are required to report
      noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries as equity in the
      consolidated financial statements. In addition, transactions between an
      entity and noncontrolling interests will be treated as equity
      transactions. SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 will become effective for fiscal
      years beginning after December 15, 2008. We will adopt these new
      accounting standards on January 1, 2009.  We do not expect the
      adoption to have a material impact on our financial
      statements. 

SFAS 161    In March
      2008, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161
      (SFAS 161),  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
      Activities   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.  SFAS 161 expands
      disclosures for derivative instruments by requiring entities to disclose
      the fair value of derivative instruments and their gains or losses in
      tabular format.  SFAS 161 also requires disclosure of
      information about credit risk-related contingent features in derivative
      agreements, counterparty credit risk, and strategies and objectives for
      using derivative instruments.   SFAS 161 will become
      effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
      2008.  We will adopt this new accounting standard on January 1,
      2009.  We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact
      on our financial statements. 

Page A-15  

SFAS 162      In May 2008, the
      FASB issued   Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 162 (SFAS 162),  The Hierarchy of
      Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.  SFAS 162 identifies the sources
      of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to
      be used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental
      entities that are presented in conformity with U.S. GAAP.  SFAS
      162 was effective November 16, 2008.  This Statement did not
      result in a change in our current
practice. 

SFAS 163      In May 2008, the
      FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 163 (SFAS
      163),  Accounting for Financial Guarantee Insurance Contracts   an
      interpretation of FASB Statement No. 60.  SFAS 163 requires that an
      insurance enterprise recognize a claim liability prior to an event of
      default (insured event) when there is evidence that credit deterioration
      has occurred in an insured financial obligation. It also requires
      disclosure about (1) the risk-management activities used by an insurance
      enterprise to evaluate credit deterioration in its insured financial
      obligations and (2) the insurance enterprise s surveillance or watch
      list.  SFAS 163 will become effective for fiscal years beginning
      after December 15, 2008.  We will adopt this new accounting
      standard on January 1, 2009.  We do not expect the adoption to
      have a material impact on our financial
  statements. 

FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN
      46R-8     
      In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position on Statement 140 and
      FIN 46R "Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of
      Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities" (FSP FAS
      140-4 and FIN 46R-8).  This FSP expands the disclosure
      requirements in SFAS 140 and FIN 46R by requiring additional information
      about companies  involvement with variable interest entities (VIEs) and
      their continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. This new
      accounting standard has been adopted for our financial statements ended
      December 31, 2008.  The adoption of FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8
      did not have a material impact on our financial
  statements. 

FSP FAS 132R-1      In December 2008,
      the FASB issued FASB Staff Position on Statement 132R, "Employers 
      Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets" (FSP FAS 132(R)-1).
      This FSP expands the disclosure set forth in SFAS 132R by adding required
      disclosures about (1) how investment allocation decisions are made by
      management, (2) major categories of plan assets, and (3) significant
      concentration of risk. Additionally, the FSP requires an employer to
      disclose information about the valuation of plan assets similar to that
      required under SFAS 157. This new accounting standard will become
      effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.  We
      will adopt this new accounting standard on January 1, 2009.  We
      do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our financial
      statements. 

FSP EITF 99-20-1  
       In   January 2009, the
      FASB issued FASB Staff Position on EITF Issue No. 99-20, "Amendments to
      the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99-20" (FSP EITF
      99-20-1).  FSP EITF 99-20-1 aligns the impairment guidance in
      EITF Issue No. 99-20 with that in Statement of Financial Accounting
      Standards No. 115 (SFAS 115), "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
      and Equity Securities."  It changes how companies determine
      whether an other-than-temporary impairment exists for certain beneficial
      interests by allowing management to exercise more
      judgment.  This new accounting standard has been adopted for our
      financial statements ended December 31, 2008.  The adoption of
      FSP EITF 99-20-1 did not have a material impact on our financial
      statements. 

L. 

Goodwill 

Goodwill
      represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of
      the net assets acquired.  We account for goodwill in accordance
      with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and
      Other Intangible Assets," which requires that we test goodwill for
      impairment, at the reporting unit level, annually and when events or
      circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit may be below its
      carrying value.  A reporting unit is an operating segment or
      sub-segment to which goodwill is assigned when initially recorded. We
      assign goodwill to reporting units based on our integration plans and the
      expected synergies resulting from the business
      combination.   Because Caterpillar is a highly integrated
      company, the businesses we acquire are sometimes combined with or
      integrated into existing reporting units.  

We perform our
      annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for interim
      triggering events on an ongoing basis.  Goodwill is reviewed for
      impairment utilizing a two-step process.  The first step
      requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit, which we
      compute using a discounted cash flow analysis, to the respective carrying
      value, which includes goodwill.  If the fair value of the
      reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the goodwill is not considered
      impaired.  If the carrying value is higher than the fair value,
      there is an indication that an impairment may exist and the second step is
      required.  In step two, the implied fair value of goodwill is
      calculated as the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the
      fair values assigned to its assets and liabilities.  If the
      implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of the
      reporting unit s goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment
      loss. 

M. 

Stock-based
      compensation 

On January 1,
      2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
      (revised 2004) (SFAS 123R),  Share-Based Payment  using the modified
      prospective transition method. SFAS 123R requires all stock based payments
      to be recognized in the financial statements based on the grant date fair
      value of the award.  Under the modified prospective transition
      method, we were required to record stock-based compensation expense for
      all awards granted after the date of adoption and for the unvested portion
      of previously granted awards outstanding as of the date of
      adoption.  See Note 2 for additional information regarding
      stock-based compensation. 

Page A-16  

2. 

Stock-based
      compensation 

Stock Incentive
      Plans  

In 1996,
      stockholders approved the Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan (the
      1996 Plan), which expired in April of 2006.  The 1996 Plan
      reserved 144 million shares of common stock for issuance (128 million
      under this plan and 16 million under prior plans).  On June 14,
      2006, stockholders approved the 2006 Caterpillar Long-Term Incentive Plan
      (the 2006 Plan).  The 2006 non-employee Directors  grant was
      issued from this plan.  The 2006 Plan reserves 37.6 million
      shares for issuance (20 million under the 2006 Plan and 17.6 million
      transferred from the 1996 Plan).   The plans primarily
      provide for the granting of stock options, stock-settled stock
      appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock units (RSUs) to Officers
      and other key employees, as well as non-employee Directors. Stock options
      permit a holder to buy Caterpillar stock at the stock's price when the
      option was granted. SARs permit a holder the right to receive the value in
      shares of the appreciation in Caterpillar stock that occurred from the
      date the right was granted up to the date of exercise.  A
      restricted stock unit (RSU) is an agreement to issue shares of Caterpillar
      stock at the time of vesting. 

Our
      long-standing practices and policies specify all stock-based compensation
      awards are approved by the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the
      Board of Directors on the date of grant.  The stock-based award
      approval process specifies the number of awards granted, the terms of the
      award and the grant date.  The same terms and conditions are
      consistently applied to all employee grants, including Officers. The
      Committee approves all individual Officer grants.  The number of
      stock-based compensation awards included in an individual s award is
      determined based on the methodology approved by the
      Committee.  Prior to 2007, the terms of the 1996 Stock Option
      and Long-Term Incentive Plan (which expired in April of 2006) provided for
      the exercise price methodology to be the average of the high and low price
      of our stock on the date of grant.  In 2007, under the terms of
      the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (approved by
      stockholders in June of 2006), the Compensation Committee approved the
      exercise price methodology to be the closing price of the Company stock on
      the date of the grant. 

Common stock
      issued from Treasury stock under the plans totaled 4,807,533 for 2008,
      11,710,958 for 2007 and 15,207,055 for 2006. 

In 2007, in
      order to align our stock award program with the overall market, we
      adjusted our 2007 grant by reducing the overall number of employee awards
      and utilizing RSUs in addition to the SARs and option
      awards.  The 2008, 2007 and 2006 awards generally vest three
      years after the date of grant.  At grant, SARs and option awards
      have a term life of ten years.  Upon separation from service, if
      the participant is 55 years of age or older with more than ten years of
      service, the participant meets the criteria for a  Long Service
      Separation."  If the  Long Service Separation  criteria are met,
      the vested options/SARs will have a life that is the lesser of 10 years
      from the original grant date or five years from the separation
      date. 

Our
      stock-based compensation plans allow for the immediate vesting upon
      separation for employees who meet the criteria for a  Long Service
      Separation  and who have fulfilled the requisite service period of six
      months.  With the adoption of SFAS 123R, compensation expense is
      recognized over the period from the grant date to the end date of the
      requisite service period for employees who meet the immediate vesting upon
      retirement requirements.  For those employees who become
      eligible for immediate vesting upon retirement subsequent to the requisite
      service period and prior to the completion of the vesting period,
      compensation expense is recognized over the period from grant date to the
      date eligibility is achieved. 

SFAS 123R
      requires companies to estimate the fair value of options/SARs on the date
      of grant using an option-pricing model. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the fair
      value of the option/SAR grant was estimated using a lattice-based
      option-pricing model.  The lattice-based option-pricing model
      considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest
      rate and historical employee behavior.  Expected volatility was
      based on historical and current implied volatilities from traded options
      on our stock. The risk-free rate was based on U.S. Treasury security
      yields at the time of grant.  The weighted-average dividend
      yield was based on historical information.  The expected life
      was determined from the lattice-based model. The lattice-based model
      incorporated exercise and post vesting forfeiture assumptions based on
      analysis of historical data. The following table provides the assumptions
      used in determining the fair value of the stock-based awards for the years
      ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
  respectively. 

The fair value
      of the RSU grant was determined by reducing the stock price on the day of
      grant by the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during
      the vesting period.  The estimated dividends are based on
      Caterpillar s weighted-average dividend
yield. 

Page A-17  

The amount of
      stock-based compensation expense capitalized for the years ended December
      31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 did not have a significant impact on our financial
      statements. 

At December
      31, 2008, there was $136 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
      from stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the plans, which
      is related to non-vested stock-based awards.  The compensation
      expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
      approximately 1.8 years. 

Please refer to Tables I and II
      below for additional information on our stock-based
      awards.  

The
      computations of weighted-average exercise prices and aggregate intrinsic
      values are not applicable to RSUs since an RSU represents an agreement to
      issue shares of stock at the time of vesting.  At December 31,
      2008, there were 2,673,474 outstanding RSUs with a weighted average
      remaining contractual life of 1.7
years. 

Page A-18  

The following
      table summarizes the effect of the adoption of SFAS
  123R: 

(Dollars
      in millions except per share data) 

2006 

Stock-based
      compensation expense, before tax 

$ 

137 

Stock-based
      compensation expense, after tax 

$ 

92 

Income tax
      benefit recognized in net income 

$ 

45 

Decrease in
      profit per share of common stock, basic 

$ 

.14 

Decrease in
      profit per share of common stock, diluted 

$ 

.09 

Before tax
      stock-based compensation expense for 2008 and 2007 was $194 million and
      $146 million, with a corresponding income tax benefit of $62 million and
      $48 million, respectively. 

In accordance
      with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107  Share-based payment,  we classify
      stock-based compensation within cost of goods sold, selling, general and
      administrative expenses and research and development expenses
      corresponding to the same line item as the cash compensation paid to
      respective employees, officers and non-employee directors.  We
      do not allocate stock-based compensation to reportable
      segments. 

We currently
      use shares that have been repurchased through our stock repurchase program
      to satisfy share award exercises. 

In November
      2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123R-3  Transition
      Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment
      Awards.   In the third quarter of 2006, we elected to adopt the
      alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
      calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation.  The
      alternative transition method includes simplified methods to determine the
      beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital (APIC) pool related to
      the tax effects of stock-based compensation, and to determine the
      subsequent impact on the APIC pool and the Statement of Cash Flow of the
      tax effects of stock-based awards that were fully vested and outstanding
      upon the adoption of SFAS 123R. 

The tax
      benefits realized from stock awards exercised for December 31, 2008, 2007
      and 2006 were $60 million, $167 million and $170 million, respectively. We
      use the direct only method and tax law ordering approach to calculate the
      tax effects of stock-based compensation.  In certain
      jurisdictions, tax deductions for exercises of stock-based awards did not
      generate a cash benefit.  A tax benefit of approximately $24
      million will be recorded in APIC when these deductions reduce our future
      income taxes payable. 

3. 

Derivative
      financial instruments and risk
management 

A. 

Foreign
      currency exchange rate risk 

Foreign
      currency exchange rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the
      U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs incurred in foreign currencies.
      Movements in foreign currency rates also affect our competitive position
      as these changes may affect business practices and/or pricing strategies
      of non-U.S.-based competitors. Additionally, we have balance sheet
      positions denominated in foreign currency, thereby creating exposure to
      movements in exchange rates. 

Page A-19  

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations purchase, manufacture and sell products in many
      locations around the world. As we have a diversified revenue and cost
      base, we manage our future foreign currency cash flow exposure on a net
      basis. We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage
      unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to
      minimize the risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S.
      dollar value of our foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for
      managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to five
      years. 

We generally
      designate as cash flow hedges at inception of the contract any Australian
      dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan,
      euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Singapore dollar, New Zealand dollar or
      Swiss franc forward or option contracts that meet the requirements for
      hedge accounting. Designation is performed on a specific exposure basis to
      support hedge accounting. The remainder of Machinery and Engines foreign
      currency contracts are undesignated. We designate as fair value hedges
      specific euro forward contracts used to hedge firm
      commitments. 

As of
      December 31, 2008, $43 million (net of tax) of deferred net gains
      included in equity ( Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)  in
      Statement 2), are expected to be reclassified to current earnings ( Other
      income (expense)  in Statement 1) over the next twelve
      months.  The actual amount recorded in  Other income (expense) 
      will vary based on exchange rates at the time the hedged transactions
      impact earnings. 

In managing
      foreign currency risk for our Financial Products operations, our objective
      is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the
      remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions. Our policy
      allows the use of foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset
      the risk of currency mismatch between our receivables and debt. All such
      foreign currency forward and option contracts are
      undesignated. 

Gains and
      losses on the Financial Products contracts above are designed to offset
      balance sheet translation gains and
losses. 

B. 

Interest
      rate risk 

Interest rate
      movements create a degree of risk by affecting the amount of our interest
      payments and the value of our fixed-rate debt. Our practice is to use
      interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate
      changes and, in some cases, lower the cost of borrowed funds. 

Machinery and
      Engines operations generally use fixed rate debt as a source of
      funding.  Our objective is to minimize the cost of borrowed
      funds.  Our policy allows us to enter into fixed-to-floating
      interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to meet that objective
      with the intent to designate as fair value hedges at inception of the
      contract all fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps.  Designation
      as a hedge of the fair value of our fixed rate debt is performed to
      support hedge accounting. 

During 2001,
      our Machinery and Engines operations liquidated all existing
      fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. The gain ($2 million at December
      31, 2008) is being amortized to earnings ratably over the remaining life
      of the hedged debt.  During 2006 and 2007, we entered into $400
      million (notional amount) of interest rate swaps designated as fair value
      hedges of our fixed rate long-term debt. During the first quarter 2008,
      our Machinery and Engines operations liquidated all of these
      fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps.  The gain ($18 million
      remaining at December 31, 2008) is being amortized to earnings ratably
      over the remaining life of the hedged debt.  During the fourth
      quarter 2008, we entered into $750 million (notional amount) of forward
      starting swaps designated as cash flow hedges of our anticipated long-term
      debt offering which occurred in December 2008.  At the issuance
      of the debt, Caterpillar settled the forward starting
      swaps.  The loss ($29 million at December 31, 2008) is being
      amortized to earnings ratably over the remaining term of the debt (10
      years). 

Financial
      Products operations have a match-funding policy that addresses interest
      rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate)
      of Cat Financial s debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of their
      receivables portfolio within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In
      connection with that policy, we use interest rate derivative instruments
      to modify the debt structure to match assets within the receivables
      portfolio. This match funding reduces the volatility of margins between
      interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, regardless of
      which direction interest rates
move. 

Page A-20  

Our policy
      allows us to use fixed-to-floating, floating-to-fixed and
      floating-to-floating interest rate swaps to meet the match-funding
      objective. To support hedge accounting, we designate fixed-to-floating
      interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the fair value of our
      fixed-rate debt at the inception of the swap contract. Financial Products'
      practice is to designate most floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps as
      cash flow hedges of the variability of future cash flows at the inception
      of the swap contract. 

Financial
      Products liquidated fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps during 2006,
      2005 and 2004, which resulted in deferred net gains.  These
      gains ($4 million remaining at December 31, 2008) are being amortized to
      earnings ratably over the remaining term of the hedged
    debt. 

As of December
      31, 2008, $51 million (net of tax) of deferred net losses included in
      equity ("Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" in Statement 2),
      related to Financial Products floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, are
      expected to be reclassified to current earnings ("Interest expense of
      Financial Products" in Statement 1) over the next 12
    months. 

C. 

Commodity
      price risk 

Commodity
      price movements create a degree of risk by affecting the price we must pay
      for certain raw material. Our policy is to use commodity forward and
      option contracts to manage the commodity risk and reduce the cost of
      purchased materials. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations purchase aluminum, copper and nickel embedded in
      the components we purchase from suppliers. Our suppliers pass on to us
      price changes in the commodity portion of the component cost. In addition,
      we are also subject to price changes on natural gas purchased for
      operational use. 

Our objective
      is to minimize volatility in the price of these commodities. Our policy
      allows us to enter into commodity forward and option contracts to lock in
      the purchase price of a portion of these commodities within a four-year
      horizon. All such commodity forward and option contracts are
      undesignated.  There were no net gains or losses on undesignated
      contracts in 2007, and no contracts were outstanding during
      2008.  Gains on undesignated contracts of $1 million were
      recorded in current earnings ("Other income (expense)" in Statement 1) in
      2006. 

D. 

Stock
      repurchase risk 

In February
      2007, the Board of Directors authorized a $7.5 billion stock repurchase
      program, expiring on December 31, 2011.  The amount of
      Caterpillar stock that can be repurchased under the authorization is
      impacted by the movements in the price of the stock.  In August
      2007, the Board of Directors authorized the use of derivative contracts to
      reduce stock repurchase volatility. 

In connection
      with our stock repurchase program, we entered into capped call
      transactions ( call ) with a major bank for an aggregate of 6.0 million
      shares.  A call permits us to reduce share repurchase price
      volatility by providing a floor and cap on the price at which the shares
      can be repurchased.  During 2007, we paid the bank premiums of
      $56 million for the establishment of calls for 3.5 million shares, which
      was accounted for as a reduction to stockholders 
      equity.  During 2008, we paid the bank premiums of $38 million
      for the establishment of calls for 2.5 million shares.  The
      floor, cap and strike prices for the calls were based upon the average
      purchase price paid by the bank to purchase our common stock to hedge
      these transactions.  Each call matured and was exercised within
      one year after the call was established.  If we exercised a
      call, we could elect to settle the transaction with the bank by physical
      settlement (paying cash and receiving shares), cash settlement (receiving
      a net amount of cash) or net share settlement (receiving a net amount of
      shares). 

Page A-21  

For the year
      ended December 31, 2008, $268 million of cash was used to repurchase 5.0
      million shares pursuant to calls exercised under this program. Premiums
      previously paid associated with these exercised calls were $78
      million.  In December 2008, a call for 1.0 million shares
      matured, but was not exercised.  Premiums previously paid
      associated with this unexercised call were $16 million.  As of
      December 31, 2008, there were no outstanding
  calls. 

5. 

Income
      taxes 

Profit before
      taxes, as shown above, is based on the location of the entity to which
      such earnings are attributable. Where an entity s earnings are subject to
      taxation, however, may not correlate solely to where an entity is
      located.  Thus, the income tax provision shown below as U.S. or
      non-U.S. may not correspond to the earnings shown
  above. 

Page A-22  

The provision
      for income taxes for 2008 includes tax benefits of $456 million recorded
      discretely in the quarter of occurrence. Repatriation of non-U.S. earnings
      resulted in a tax benefit of $409 million due to available foreign tax
      credits in excess of the U.S. tax liability on the dividend.  A
      benefit of $47 million was also recorded in 2008 due to a change in tax
      status of a non-U.S. subsidiary allowing indefinite reinvestment of
      undistributed profits and reversal of U.S. tax previously recorded .   

The 2006
      provision for income taxes includes a benefit of $5 million for net
      changes in tax reserves.  Favorable settlement of a non-U.S. tax
      issue resulted in a $25 million decrease in reserves.  This was
      partially offset by a $20 million increase in U.S. tax reserves related to
      transfer pricing adjustments for tax years 1992 to 1994, which we continue
      to dispute. 

We have
      recorded income tax expense at U.S. tax rates on all profits, except for
      undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries of approximately $8 billion
      which are considered indefinitely reinvested.  Determination of
      the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to indefinitely
      reinvested profits is not feasible.  A deferred tax asset is
      recognized only if we have definite plans to generate a U.S. tax benefit
      by repatriating earnings in the foreseeable
  future. 

SFAS 109
      requires that individual tax-paying entities of the company offset all
      current deferred tax liabilities and assets within each particular tax
      jurisdiction and present them as a single amount in the Consolidated
      Financial Position. A similar procedure is followed for all noncurrent
      deferred tax liabilities and assets. Amounts in different tax
      jurisdictions cannot be offset against each other. The amount of deferred
      income taxes at December 31, included on the following lines in
      Statement 2, are as follows: 

Page A-23  

At
      December 31, 2008, we had U.S. foreign tax credits of approximately
      $250 million to carry forward for up to ten
  years. 

At
      December 31, 2008, amounts and expiration dates of net operating loss
      carryforwards in various non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions
    were: 

A valuation
      allowance has been recorded at certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that have not
      yet demonstrated consistent and/or sustainable profitability to support
      the recognition of net deferred tax assets. 

At
      December 31, 2008, approximately $288 million of state tax net
      operating losses (NOLs) and $128 million of state tax credit carryforwards
      were available. Of the NOLs, over three-fourths expire after 2018. The
      state tax credit carryforwards expire over the next ten years. We
      established a valuation allowance for those NOLs and credit carryforwards
      likely to expire prior to utilization. 

We adopted FIN
      48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  as of January 1, 2007. A
      reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized
      tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting
      only the timing of tax benefits,
follows. 

At adoption, the amount of
      unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective
      tax rate was $486 million.  The corresponding amounts for the
      years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $646 million and $537 million,
      respectively.  

We classify interest and penalties
      on tax uncertainties as a component of the provision for income taxes. We
      recognized interest and penalties of $18 million and $36 million during
      the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The
      total amount of interest and penalties accrued was $116 million and $98
      million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
      respectively.  

It is expected that the amount of
      unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next 12
      months.  However, we do not expect the change to have a
      significant impact on our results of operations or financial
      position.  

Page A-24  

The Internal
      Revenue Service (IRS) is currently examining U.S. tax returns for 2005 and
      2006 and has completed its field examination of our tax returns for 1992
      to 2004.  For tax years 1992 to 1994, we expect to litigate the
      unagreed adjustments related to transfer pricing.  We anticipate
      the appeals process for tax years 1995 to 1999, primarily related to
      foreign sales corporation commissions, foreign tax credit calculations and
      research and development credits, will be settled within the next 12
      months. For tax years 2000 to 2004, we are in the appeals process for
      unagreed adjustments primarily related to export tax
      benefits.   In the opinion of management, the ultimate
      disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
      our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
      operations. 

In our major non-U.S.
      jurisdictions, tax years are typically subject to examination for three to
      six years.  

6. 

Sales and servicing of trade
      receivables  

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations generate trade receivables from the sale of
      inventory to dealers and customers. Certain of these receivables are sold
      to Cat Financial. 

Cat Financial
      has sold interests in a certain pool of trade receivables through a
      revolving structure to third-party commercial paper conduits, asset-backed
      commercial paper issuers that are special purpose entities (SPEs) of the
      sponsor bank and are not consolidated by Cat Financial. In accordance with
      SFAS 140, the transfers to the conduits are accounted for as sales.
      Cat Financial services the sold trade receivables and receives an annual
      servicing fee of approximately 0.5% of the average outstanding principal
      balance. Consolidated expenses of $10 million, $15 million and
      $15 million related to the sale of trade receivables were recognized
      during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are included in "Other
      income (expense)" in Statement 1. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
      the outstanding principal balance of the sold trade receivables was $240
      million. 

Cat
      Financial s remaining interest in the pool of trade receivables as of
      December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 of $1,432 million, $1,233 million
      and $2,718 million, respectively, is included in "Receivables trade and
      other" in Statement 2.   The carrying amount approximated
      fair value due to the short-term nature of these receivables. 

The cash collections from these
      receivables held by Cat Financial, including those attributable to the
      third-party conduits, are first applied to satisfy any obligations of Cat
      Financial to the third-party conduits. The third-party conduits have no
      recourse to Cat Financial's assets, other than the remaining interest, for
      failure of debtors to pay when
due.  

7. 

Wholesale inventory
      receivables  

Wholesale inventory receivables
      are receivables of Cat Financial that arise when Cat Financial provides
      financing for a dealer's purchase of inventory. These receivables are
      included in "Receivables trade and other" and "Long-term receivables trade
      and other" in Statement 2 and were $1,555 million, $1,496 million,
      and $1,215 million at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. Please refer to Note 19 and Table IV for fair
      value information.  

Page A-25  

8. 

Finance
      receivables 

Finance
      receivables are receivables of Cat Financial, which generally can be
      repaid or refinanced without penalty prior to contractual maturity. Total
      finance receivables reported in Statement 2 are net of an allowance
      for credit losses. 

During 2008,
      2007 and 2006, Cat Financial sold certain finance receivables related to
      retail installment sale contracts and finance leases to special purpose
      entities (SPEs) as part of their asset-backed securitization program. The
      SPEs have limited purposes and generally are only permitted to purchase
      the finance receivables, issue asset-backed securities and make payments
      on the securities. The SPEs only issue a single series of securities and
      generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid in full. The
      SPEs, typically trusts, are considered to be qualifying special purpose
      entities (QSPEs) and thus, in accordance with SFAS 140, are not
      consolidated. The QSPEs issue debt to pay for the finance receivables they
      acquire from Cat Financial.  The primary source for repayment of
      the debt is the cash flows generated from the finance receivables owned by
      the QSPEs.  The assets of the QSPEs are legally isolated and are
      not available to pay the creditors of Cat Financial or any other affiliate
      of Cat Financial.  For bankruptcy analysis purposes, Cat
      Financial has sold the finance receivables to the QSPEs in a true sale and
      the QSPEs are separate legal entities. 

Cat Financial
      retained interests in the finance receivables that were sold through their
      asset-backed securitization program.  Retained interests include
      subordinated certificates, an interest in future cash flows (excess) and
      reserve accounts. Retained interests in securitized assets are classified
      as available-for-sale securities and are included in  Other assets  in
      Statement 2 at fair value in accordance with SFAS 115. Cat Financial
      estimates fair value based on the present value of the future expected
      cash flows using key assumptions for credit losses, prepayment rates and
      discount rates. These assumptions are based on historical experience,
      market trends and anticipated performance relative to the particular
      assets securitized. Cat Financial periodically reviews the key assumptions
      and estimates used in determining the fair value of their retained
      interests with unrealized gains and losses recorded in Statement 2 as
      part of  Accumulated other comprehensive income .  If based on
      current information and events, it is probable that there has been an
      adverse change in estimated cash flows, an  other-than-temporary 
      impairment is recorded and included in profit to write down the retained
      interest to estimated fair value. Cat Financial retains credit risk in the
      retail finance receivables that are sold through Cat Financial s
      asset-backed securitizations because Cat Financial s retained interests
      are subordinate to the investors  interests. Any credit losses in the pool
      of securitized assets would be limited to Cat Financial s retained
      interests. For 2008, subordinated interests included subordinated
      certificates with an initial fair value of $27 million, an interest in
      certain future cash flow (excess) with an initial fair value of $8 million
      and a reserve account with an initial fair value of $9 million. For 2007,
      subordinated interests included subordinated certificates with an initial
      fair value of zero, an interest in certain future cash flow (excess) with
      an initial fair value of $2 million and a reserve account with an
      initial fair value of $9 million. For 2006, subordinated interests
      included subordinated certificates with an initial fair value of
      $4 million, an interest in certain future cash flow (excess) with an
      initial fair value of $3 million and a reserve account with an
      initial fair value of $10 million. Net gains of $12 million,
      $4 million and $7 million were recognized on these transactions
      in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

Page A-26  

Significant
      assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the retained interests and
      subordinated certificates at the time of the transaction
    were: 

The company
      receives annual servicing fees of approximately 1% of the unpaid note
      value. 

As of
      December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the subordinated retained interests
      in the public securitizations totaled $52 million, $49 million and
      $68 million, respectively. Key assumptions used to determine the fair
      value of the retained interests
were: 

The investors
      and the securitization trusts have no recourse to Cat Financial's other
      assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. 

We estimated
      the impact of individual 10% and 20% changes to the key economic
      assumptions used to determine the fair value of residual cash flow in
      retained interests on our income. An independent, adverse change to each
      key assumption used to calculate the fair value of all our retained
      interests as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 would be $8 million or
      less, $2 million or less, and $3 million or less,
      respectively. 

During 2008,
      the assumptions used to determine the fair value of Cat Financial s
      retained interests in the securitization transactions were
      reviewed.  The most significant change was an increase in the
      credit loss assumption due to the continued softening of industries
      related to the U.S. housing market.  This resulted in a $27
      million impairment charge to the retained interests for the year ended
      December 31, 2008. The impairment charge was recorded in  Revenues of
      Financial Products  on Statement 1. 

To maintain
      competitiveness in the capital markets and to have effective and efficient
      use of alternative funding sources, Cat Financial may from time to time
      provide additional reserve support to previously issued asset-backed
      securitizations .
       During the third quarter of 2008, Cat Financial deposited $19
      million into a supplemental reserve account for the 2007 securitization
      transaction to maintain the credit ratings assigned to the transaction, as
      loss experiences were higher than anticipated primarily due to the
      softening of industries related to the U.S. housing
      market.  This resulted in an increase in Cat Financial s
      retained interests. 

We consider an
      account past due if any portion of an installment is due and unpaid for
      more than 30 days.  Recognition of income is suspended when
      management determines that collection of future income is not probable
      (generally after 120 days past due). Accrual is resumed, and
      previously suspended income is recognized, when the receivable becomes
      contractually current and/or collection doubts are removed. Cash receipts
      on impaired loans or finance leases are recorded against the receivable
      and then to any unrecognized income. Investment in loans/finance leases on
      nonaccrual status were $422 million, $232 million and $190 million
      and past due over 90 days and still accruing were $119 million, $47
      million and $18 million as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. 

Cat Financial
      provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met. Credit decisions
      are based on, among other things, the customer's credit history, financial
      strength and intended use of equipment. Cat Financial typically maintains
      a security interest in retail financed equipment and requires physical
      damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. 

Please refer
      to Table III for additional finance receivables information and
      Note 19 and Table IV for fair value
  information. 

Page A-27  

In estimating
      the allowance for credit losses, we review accounts that are past due,
      non-performing or in bankruptcy. 

1  

Includes
      impaired loans of $108 million primarily reflecting the fair value of the
      loan s associated collateral.  See Note 19 for more
      information. 

Page A-28  

9. 

Inventories 

Inventories
      (principally using the  last-in, first-out  method) are comprised of the
      following: 

10. 

Property,
      plant and equipment 

We had
      commitments for the purchase or construction of capital assets of
      approximately $579 million at December 31,
  2008. 

Page A-29  

At
      December 31, 2008, scheduled minimum rental payments to be received
      for equipment leased to others
were: 

11. 

Investments
      in unconsolidated affiliated
companies 

Our
      investments in affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method
      have historically consisted primarily of a 50 percent interest in Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) located in Japan.  On August
      1, 2008, SCM redeemed half of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. s (MHI s)
      shares in SCM.  As a result, Caterpillar now owns 67 percent of
      the renamed entity, Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan).  Because
      Cat Japan is accounted for on a lag, Cat Japan s August 1, 2008 financial
      position was consolidated on September 30, 2008.  Cat Japan s
      results of operations were consolidated in the fourth
      quarter.  See Note 25 for details on this share
      redemption.  In February 2008, we sold our 23 percent equity
      investment in A.S.V. Inc. (ASV) resulting in a $60 million pretax
      gain.  Accordingly, the December 31, 2008 financial position and
      equity investment amounts noted below do not include ASV or Cat
      Japan. 

Combined
      financial information of the unconsolidated affiliated companies accounted
      for by the equity method (generally on a lag of 3 months or less) was as
      follows: 

Page A-30  

At
      December 31, 2008, consolidated "Profit employed in the business" in
      Statement 2 included $10 million representing undistributed profit of
      the unconsolidated affiliated
companies. 

12. 

Intangible
      assets and goodwill 

During 2008,
      the Cat Japan share redemption resulted in additional finite-lived
      intangible assets of $54 million.  In 2008, we acquired
      finite-lived intangible assets of $17 million due to the purchase of Lovat
      Inc.  See Note 25 for details on these business
      combinations.  Also in 2008, we acquired finite-lived intangible
      assets of $32 million from other acquisitions. 

During 2007,
      we acquired finite-lived intangible assets of $89 million as part of the
      purchase of Franklin Power Products.  In 2007, we also acquired
      finite-lived intangible assets of $24 million due to the purchase of the
      Forestry Division of Blount International, Inc. During 2006 we acquired
      finite-lived intangible assets of $223 million due to the purchase of
      Progress Rail Services, Inc. (Progress Rail).  See Note 25 for
      details on the acquisition of these assets. 

Amortization
      expense related to intangible assets was $61 million, $52 million and $34
      million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Amortization
      expense related to intangible assets is expected to
  be: 

B. 

Goodwill 

During 2008,
      the Cat Japan share redemption resulted in $206 million of
      goodwill.  In 2008, we acquired net assets with related goodwill
      of $41 million as part of the purchase of Gremada Industries,
      Inc.  In 2008, we also acquired net assets with related goodwill
      of $22 million as part of the purchase of Lovat Inc.  See Note
      25 for details on these business combinations.  Also during
      2008, we acquired net assets with related goodwill of $8 million from
      other acquisitions. 

During 2007,
      we acquired assets with related goodwill of $37 million as part of the
      purchase of Franklin Power Products.  In 2007, we also acquired
      assets with related goodwill of $22 million as part of the purchase of the
      Forestry Division of Blount International, Inc.  During 2006, we
      acquired assets with related goodwill of $431 million as part of the
      purchase of Progress Rail.  During 2006, we also acquired assets
      with related goodwill of $39 million as part of the purchase of the large
      components business of Royal Oak Industries, Inc.  See Note 25
      for details on the acquisition of these
assets. 

Page A-31  

During 2006,
      we determined that the business outlook for the parts and accessories
      distribution business of MG Rover, acquired in 2004, required a specific
      impairment evaluation. The declining outlook of this business resulted
      from MG Rover s cessation of vehicle production and warranties resulting
      from their bankruptcy in 2005. Although the MG Rover parts business
      continues to provide parts to the existing population of vehicles, the
      unit s sales will continue to decline as production of new vehicles has
      ceased. In determining if there was impairment, we first compared the fair
      value of the reporting unit (calculated by discounting projected cash
      flows) to the carrying value. Because the carrying value exceeded the fair
      value, we then allocated the fair value to the assets and liabilities of
      the unit and determined the fair value of the implied goodwill was zero.
      Accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge of $18 million, representing the
      entire goodwill associated with the MG Rover parts and accessories
      business at that date, was included in  Other operating expenses  in
      Statement 1 and reported in the  All Other  category in Note
      24. 

No goodwill
      was impaired or disposed of during the years ended December 31, 2008 or
      2007. 

1  

All Other
      includes operating segments included in  All Other  category (See Note
      24). 

2  

As discussed in Note 24, our
      reportable segments were changed in the first quarter of
      2008.  As a result, goodwill of $60 million was reallocated from
      the Large Power Systems reportable segment to the newly formed Marine
        Petroleum Power reportable segment.  

13. 

Available-for-sale
      securities 

Financial
      Products, primarily Cat Insurance, has investments in certain debt and
      equity securities at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, that have been
      classified as available-for-sale in accordance with SFAS 115 and
      recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. These fair values
      are included in "Other assets" in Statement 2. Unrealized gains and losses
      arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale securities are
      included, net of applicable deferred income taxes, in equity ("Accumulated
      other comprehensive income" in Statement 2). Realized gains and losses on
      sales of investments are generally determined using the FIFO method for
      debt instruments and the specific identification method for equity
      securities. Realized gains and losses are included in "Other income
      (expense)" in Statement 1. 

Page A-32  

During 2008,
      we recognized a pretax charge in accordance with the application of SFAS
      115 for  other-than-temporary  declines in the fair values of equity
      securities in the Cat Insurance investment portfolios of $37
      million.  This charge was accounted for as a realized loss and
      was included in the  Other income (expense)  in Statement
      1.  The cost basis of the impacted securities was adjusted to
      reflect this charge.  During 2007 and 2006, there were no
      charges for "other-than-temporary" declines in the market value of
      securities. 

Government
      Debt.   The unrealized losses on our investments in U.S.
      Treasury obligations, direct obligations of U.S. governmental agencies and
      federal agency mortgage-backed securities, are the result of an increase
      in the volatility in the financial markets.  We intend to, and
      have the ability to hold our investments to fair value or
      maturity.  We do not consider these investments to be
      other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2008. 

Corporate
      Bonds.   The unrealized losses on our investments in
      corporate bonds and asset-backed securities relate primarily to an
      increase in credit-related yield spreads, risk aversion, and heightened
      volatility in the financial markets.   We intend to, and
      have the ability to hold these investments that are less than book value
      until recovery to fair value or maturity.  We do not consider
      these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31,
      2008. 

Page A-33  

Equity
      Securities.   Cat Insurance maintains a well-diversified
      equity portfolio consisting of three specific mandates: large cap value
      stocks, small and mid cap growth stocks and international growth and
      income stocks. The individual securities in these portfolios support cash
      flow, asset allocation, surplus growth and other investment
      objectives.  Some of these losses are attributable to the
      continued overall weak equity market conditions, especially those in the
      financial sector.  In each case where unrealized losses exist,
      company management is taking corrective action to increase shareholder
      value.  We currently believe it is probable that we will be able
      to recover all amounts due and do not consider these investments to be
      other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2008. 

The fair value
      of available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2008, by
      contractual maturity, is shown below. Expected maturities will differ from
      contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay and
      creditors may have the right to call
  obligations. 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

Fair
      Value 

Due in one
      year or
      less                                                                                                                          

$ 

51 

Due after one
      year through five
      years                                                                                                                          

$ 

230 

Due after five
      years through ten
      years                                                                                                                          

$ 

195 

Due after ten
      years                                                                                                                          

$ 

525 

14. 

Postemployment
      benefit plans 

We have both
      U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S.
      employees and a portion of our non-U.S. employees, primarily in our
      European and Japanese facilities. Our defined benefit plans provide a
      benefit based on years of service and/or the employee's average earnings
      near retirement. Our defined contribution plans allow employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to help save for retirement, and in
      certain cases, we provide a matching contribution. We also have
      defined-benefit retirement health care and life insurance plans covering
      substantially all of our U.S. employees. 

As discussed
      in Note 1K, we adopted the balance sheet recognition provisions of SFAS
      158 at December 31, 2006, and adopted the year-end measurement date
      effective January 1, 2008 using the  one measurement 
      approach.  Under the one measurement approach, net periodic
      benefit cost for the period between any early measurement date and the end
      of the fiscal year that the measurement provisions are applied is
      allocated proportionately between amounts to be recognized as an
      adjustment of Profit employed in the business and net periodic benefit
      cost for the fiscal year.  Previously, we used a November 30th
      measurement date for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit
      plans and September 30th for our non-U.S. plans.  Year-end asset
      and obligation amounts are disclosed as of the plan measurement
      dates. 

Page A-34  

Assumed health
      care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported
      for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health
      care cost trend rates would have the following
  effects: 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

One-percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                        point
      increase 

One-percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                        point
      decrease 

Effect on 2008
      service and interest cost components of other postretirement benefit
      cost 

$ 

32 

$ 

(28 

) 

Effect on
      accumulated postretirement benefit obligation  

$ 

350 

$ 

(309 

) 

Page A-35  

Our target
      asset allocations reflect our investment strategy of maximizing the
      long-term rate of return on plan assets and the resulting funded status,
      within an appropriate level of risk. The U.S. plans are rebalanced to plus
      or minus five percentage points of the target asset allocation ranges on a
      monthly basis. The frequency of rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies
      depending on the plan. 

The use of
      certain derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and
      necessary for achieving overall investment policy
      objectives.  The U.S. plans currently utilize futures contracts
      to offset current equity positions in order to rebalance the total
      portfolio to the target asset allocation.  During 2008,
      approximately 5% of the U.S. pension plans  assets were rebalanced from
      equity to fixed income positions through the use of futures contracts as
      compared to approximately 10% in 2007 and 2006. The actual asset
      allocation percentages above represent this rebalancing
      effort.  The plans do not engage in futures contracts for
      speculative purposes. 

Equity
      securities within plan assets include Caterpillar Inc. common stock
      in the amounts of: 

Page A-36  

The estimated
      amounts that will be amortized from  Accumulated other comprehensive
      income" at December 31, 2008 into net periodic benefit cost (pre-tax) in
      2009 are as follows: 

The following
      amounts relate to our pension plans with projected benefit obligations in
      excess of plan assets: 

Page A-37  

The
      accumulated postretirement benefit obligation exceeds plan assets for all
      of our other postretirement benefit
plans. 

The above
      table reflects the total employer contributions and benefits expected to
      be paid from the plan or from company assets and does not include the
      participants' share of the cost. The expected benefit payments for our
      other postretirement benefits include payments for prescription drug
      benefits. Medicare Part D subsidy amounts expected to be received by
      the company which will offset other postretirement benefit payments are as
      follows: 

Page A-38  

The assumed
      discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to
      today's dollars.  For 2008, the U.S. discount rate was based on
      a benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our
      benefit obligations could effectively be settled as of our measurement
      date, December 31.  The benefit cash flow-matching approach
      involves analyzing Caterpillar's projected cash flows against a high
      quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate
      Aa bonds available on the measurement date.  The very highest
      and lowest yielding bonds (top and bottom 10%) are excluded from the
      analysis.  Previously, we used the Moody's Aa bond yield as of
      our measurement date, November 30, and validated the discount rate
      using the benefit cash flow-matching approach.  A similar change
      was made in determining the assumed discount rate for our most
      significant non-U.S. plans. This rate is sensitive to changes in
      interest rates. A decrease in the discount rate would increase our
      obligation and future expense. 

Our U.S.
      expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate
      of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities
      weighted by the allocation of our pension assets. Based on historical
      performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management
      of the plan assets. To arrive at our expected long-term return, the amount
      added for active management was 1% for 2008, 2007 and 2006.  A
      similar process is used to determine this rate for our non-U.S.
      plans. 

Page A-39  

The assumed
      health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are
      assumed to increase. To calculate the 2008 benefit expense, we assumed an
      increase of 7.9% for 2008.  We expect an increase of 7.4% during
      2009.  The 2008 and 2009 rates are assumed to decrease gradually
      to the ultimate health care trend rate of 5.0% in 2016. This rate
      represents 3.0% general inflation plus 2.0% additional health care
      inflation. 

We determined
      that most of our U.S. retiree health care plans are at least actuarially
      equivalent to Medicare Part D and will qualify for the federal
      subsidy. 

F. 

Other
      postemployment benefit plans 

We offer
      long-term disability benefits, continued health care for disabled
      employees, survivor income benefit insurance and supplemental unemployment
      benefits to substantially all eligible U.S.
  employees. 

G. 

Defined
      contribution plans 

We have both
      U.S. and non-U.S. employee defined contribution plans to help employees
      save for retirement. Our U.S. 401(k) plan allows eligible employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to the plan on a tax-deferred basis,
      and we provide a matching contribution equal to 100% of employee
      contributions to the plan up to 6% of their compensation. Various other
      U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans allow eligible employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to the plans, and in some cases, we
      provide a matching contribution to the funds. 

Total company
      costs related to U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans were as
      follows: 

15. 

Short-term
      borrowings 

Page A-40  

The
      weighted-average interest rates on short-term borrowings outstanding
      were: 

Please refer
      to Note 19 and Table IV for fair value information on short-term
      borrowings. 

All
      outstanding notes and debentures are unsecured.  The deposit
      obligations have a corresponding security deposit that relates to a
      finance arrangement, which provides us a return. This finance arrangement
      requires that we commit to certain long-term obligations and provide a
      security deposit, which will fulfill these obligations when they become
      due.  In 2006 and 2007, the security deposit associated with the
      outstanding deposit obligations for Financial Products was included in
      "Other assets" in Statement 2.  In 2008, this security deposit
      was included in  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  and the
      deposit obligations were included in short-term borrowings. 

On December 3,
      2008, Caterpillar Inc. issued $350 million of 7.00% debentures due in
      2013, $900 million of 7.90% debentures due in 2018 and $250 million of
      8.25% debentures due in 2038. 

On August 8,
      2006, Caterpillar Inc. issued $500 million of 5.70% notes due in 2016 and
      $750 million of 6.05% debentures due in
2036. 

Page A-41  

We have three
      global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $6.85 billion
      (Credit Facility) available in the aggregate to both Machinery and Engines
      and Financial Products to support commercial paper programs in the event
      the programs become unavailable to us.  During 2008, based on
      management s allocation decision, which can be revised at any time, the
      portion of the credit facility allocated to Cat Financial was increased
      from $5.55 billion to $5.85 billion.  The five-year facility of
      $1.62 billion expires in September 2012.  The five-year facility
      of $2.98 billion expires in September 2011.  The 364-day
      facility was increased from $1.95 billion to $2.25 billion and will expire
      in September 2009.  As part of the 2008 global credit facilities
      renewal, Cat Financial s year-end and six-month moving average leverage
      covenants were increased from 8.5:1 to 10:1. In 2008, Cat Financial
      entered into a new 364-day facility of $300 million with a syndicate of
      banks, which expires in July 2009. The overall increase in the credit
      facilities was to support Cat Financial s portfolio
      growth.   At December 31, 2008, there were no borrowings
      under these lines. 

Consolidated
      credit lines with banks as of December 31, 2008 total $4.48 billion. These
      credit lines, which are eligible for renewal at various future dates or
      have no specified expiration date, are used primarily by our subsidiaries
      for local funding requirements.  Caterpillar Inc. or Cat
      Financial generally guarantees subsidiary borrowings under these
      lines. 

Page A-42  

At December
      31, 2008, Caterpillar s annual consolidated net worth dropped below the
      level stipulated in the Credit Facility.  This covenant requires
      Caterpillar to maintain a consolidated net worth of not less than 75% of
      the consolidated net worth as of the end of its immediately preceding
      fiscal year.  The decrease was largely driven by a significant
      decline in pension asset returns, resulting in a $3.4 billion year-end
      charge to other comprehensive income. 

In addition,
      at December 31, 2008, Cat Financial s quarterly interest coverage ratio
      for the fourth quarter dropped below the level stipulated in the Credit
      Facility.  This covenant requires Cat Financial to maintain a
      ratio of (1) earnings before interest expense and income taxes to (2)
      interest expense of not less than 1.15 to 1 for each fiscal
      quarter.  The ratio was negatively impacted in the fourth
      quarter of 2008 by, among other things, deteriorating economic
      conditions.  This, in addition to Caterpillar s drop in
      consolidated net worth, also resulted in Cat Financial falling below or
      failing to meet similar covenant requirements in other loan
      agreements. 

The associated
      bank group under the Credit Facility has consented to Caterpillar s lower
      annual consolidated net worth of $6.087 billion as of December 31, 2008,
      and to Cat Financial s lower quarterly interest coverage ratio of 0.97 as
      of December 31, 2008.  The bank group also agreed that any
      failure to comply with consolidated net worth and interest coverage ratio
      requirements would not constitute an actual or potential event of default
      under the Credit Facility.  In consideration of these
      agreements, the upper range of interest rate applicable to certain amounts
      that may be drawn by us under the Credit Facility was increased by
      approximately 1.00 to 1.50 percentage points. 

The lenders
      under Cat Financial s other loan agreements also have agreed that
      Caterpillar and Cat Financial will not be required to comply with the
      covenant ratios for the fourth quarter 2008.  In consideration
      of those agreements, the upper range of interest rate applicable to
      certain amounts that may be drawn by us under those loan agreements were
      increased by approximately 1.00 percentage point. 

As noted
      above, the actions by the bank group and other lenders only apply to the
      fourth quarter of 2008. In the event Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not
      meet one or more of their respective financial covenants under the Credit
      Facility in the future (and are unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the
      bank group may terminate the commitments allocated to the non-compliant
      party or the commitments could be, depending on the circumstances,
      reallocated among Caterpillar and/or Cat
      Financial.  Additionally, in such event, certain of Cat
      Financial s other lenders under other loan agreements where such financial
      covenants are applicable may, at their election, choose to pursue remedies
      under such loan agreements, including accelerating outstanding
      borrowings.  At December 31, 2008, there were no borrowings
      under the Credit
Facility. 

19. 

Fair
      value disclosures 

A. 

Fair
      value measurements 

As discussed
      in Note 1K, we adopted SFAS 157 as of January 1, 2008.  SFAS 157
      defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an
      asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or
      most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly
      transaction between market participants.  SFAS 157 also
      specifies a fair value hierarchy based upon the observability of inputs
      used in valuation techniques.  Observable inputs (highest level)
      reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable
      inputs (lowest level) reflect internally-developed market
      assumptions.  In accordance with SFAS 157, fair value
      measurements are classified under the following
  hierarchy: 

Page A-43  

Level 1      Quoted prices for
      identical instruments in active markets. 

Level 2    Quoted prices
      for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or
      similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived
      valuations in which all significant inputs or significant value-drivers
      are observable in active markets. 

Level 3    Model-derived
      valuations in which one or more significant inputs or significant
      value-drivers are unobservable. 

When
      available, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value and we
      classify such measurements within Level 1.  In some cases where
      market prices are not available, we make use of observable market based
      inputs to calculate fair value, in which case the measurements are
      classified within Level 2.  If quoted or observable market
      prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed
      models that use, where possible, current market-based parameters such as
      interest rates, yield curves and currency rates.  These
      measurements are classified within Level
3. 

Fair value
      measurements are classified according to the lowest level input or
      value-driver that is significant to the valuation.  A
      measurement may therefore be classified within Level 3 even though there
      may be significant inputs that are readily
  observable. 

SFAS 157
      expanded the definition of fair value to include the consideration of
      nonperformance risk.  Nonperformance risk refers to the risk
      that an obligation (either by a counterparty or Caterpillar) will not be
      fulfilled.  For our financial assets traded in an active market
      (Level 1 and certain Level 2), the nonperformance risk is included in the
      market price.  For certain other financial assets and
      liabilities (Level 2 and 3), our fair value calculations have been
      adjusted accordingly. 

Available-for-sale
      securities  

                                                                                                                                                                                              Our
      available-for-sale securities, primarily at Cat Insurance, include a mix
      of equity and debt instruments (see Note 13 for additional
      information).  Fair values for our government debt and equity
      securities are based upon valuations for identical instruments in active
      markets.  Fair values for corporate bonds are based upon models
      that take into consideration such market-based factors as recent sales,
      risk-free yield curves and prices of similarly rated
  bonds. 

Derivative financial
      instruments  

                                                                                                                                                                                              The fair value
      of interest rate swap derivatives is primarily based on models that
      utilize the appropriate market-based forward swap curves and zero-coupon
      interest rates to determine the discounted cash flows.  The fair
      value of foreign currency forward and option contracts is based on a
      valuation model that discounts cash flows resulting from the differential
      between the contract price and the market-based forward
    rate. 

Securitized retained
      interests  

                                                                                                                                                                                              The fair value
      of securitized retained interests is based upon a valuation model that
      calculates the present value of future expected cash flows using key
      assumptions for credit losses, prepayment rates and discount
      rates.  These assumptions are based on our historical
      experience, market trends and anticipated performance relative to the
      particular assets securitized. 

Guarantees  

                                                                                                                                                                                              The fair value
      of guarantees is based upon the premium we would require to issue the same
      guarantee in a stand-alone arm s-length transaction with an unrelated
      party. If quoted or observable market prices are not available, fair value
      is based upon internally developed models that utilize current
      market-based assumptions. 

Assets and
      liabilities measured at fair value, primarily related to Financial
      Products, included in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as
      of December 31, 2008 are summarized
below: 

Page A-44  

Below is a
      roll-forward of assets and liabilities measured at fair value using Level
      3 inputs for the year ended December 31, 2008.  These
      instruments, primarily related to Cat Financial, were valued using pricing
      models that, in management s judgment, reflect the assumptions a
      marketplace participant would use. 

The amount of
      unrealized losses on securitized retained interests recognized in earnings
      for the year ended December 31, 2008 related to assets still held at
      December 31, 2008 were $23 million. These losses were reported in Revenues
      of Financial Products in Statement 1.  The amount of unrealized
      losses on guarantees recognized in earnings for the year ended December
      31, 2008 related to liabilities still held at December 31, 2008 were $8
      million. These losses were reported in Selling, general and administrative
      expenses in Statement 1. 

In addition to
      the amounts above, we have impaired loans of $108 million as of December
      31, 2008.  A loan is considered impaired when management
      determines that collection of future income is not probable.  In
      these cases, an allowance for loan losses is established based primarily
      on the fair value of associated collateral.  As the collateral s fair
      value is based on observable market prices and/or current appraised
      values, the impaired loans are classified as Level 2
      measurements.  See Table III for further
  details. 

B. 

Fair
      values of financial instruments 

In addition to
      the methods and assumptions we use to record the fair value of financial
      instruments as discussed in the Fair value measurements section above, we
      used the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of
      our financial instruments as required by SFAS 107  Disclosures about Fair
      Values of Financial Instruments.  

Cash and short-term
      investments  

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Carrying
      amount approximated fair value. 

Long-term investments
      (other than investments in unconsolidated affiliated
      companies)  

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fair value for
      available-for-sale securities was estimated based on quoted market
      prices.  Fair value for security deposits (included in long-term
      investments in 2007 and 2006) approximated carrying value.  In
      2008 the security deposit is classified in  Prepaid expenses and other
      current assets  in Statement 2. 

Finance
      receivables  

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fair value was
      estimated by discounting the future cash flow using current rates,
      representative of receivables with similar remaining
      maturities. 

Wholesale inventory
      receivables  

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fair value was
      estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current rates,
      representative of receivables with similar remaining
      maturities. 

Short-term
      borrowings  

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Carrying
      amount approximated fair value. 

Long-term
      debt  

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fair value for
      Machinery and Engines and Financial Products fixed rate debt was estimated
      based on quoted market prices. For Financial Products, floating rate notes
      and commercial paper carrying amounts were considered a reasonable
      estimate of fair value. For deposit obligations, carrying value
      approximated fair value. 

Please refer
      to Table IV for the fair values of our financial
      instruments. 

Page A-45  

20. 

Concentration
      of credit risk 

Financial
      instruments with potential credit risk consist primarily of trade and
      finance receivables and short-term and long-term investments.
      Additionally, to a lesser extent, we have a potential credit risk
      associated with counterparties to derivative contracts. 

Trade
      receivables are primarily short-term receivables from independently owned
      and operated dealers and customers which arise in the normal course of
      business. We perform regular credit evaluations of our dealers and
      customers. Collateral generally is not required, and the majority of our
      trade receivables are unsecured. We do, however, when deemed necessary,
      make use of various devices such as security agreements and letters of
      credit to protect our interests. No single dealer or customer represents a
      significant concentration of credit risk. 

Finance
      receivables and wholesale inventory receivables primarily represent
      receivables under installment sales contracts, receivables arising from
      leasing transactions and notes receivable. We generally maintain a secured
      interest in the equipment financed. No single customer or dealer
      represents a significant concentration of credit risk. 

Short-term and
      long-term investments are held with high quality institutions and, by
      policy, the amount of credit exposure to any one institution is limited.
      Long-term investments, included in "Other assets" in Statement 2, are
      comprised primarily of investments of Cat Insurance supporting insurance
      reserve requirements. 

For derivative
      contracts, collateral is generally not required of the counterparties or
      of our company. We do not anticipate nonperformance by any of the
      counterparties. Our exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance
      by the counterparties is limited to only those gains that we have
      recorded, but have not yet received cash payment. At December 31, 2008,
      2007 and 2006, the exposure to credit loss was $1,051 million, $204
      million, and $149 million, respectively.  The significant 2008
      increase is a result of  favorable rate movement on interest
      rate swaps at Cat Financial and favorable exchange rate movement on
      foreign exchange contracts in Machinery and Engines. 

Please refer
      to Note 19 and Table IV above for fair value
  information. 

Page A-46  

We lease
      certain computer and communications equipment, transportation equipment
      and other property through operating leases. Total rental expense for
      operating leases was $402 million, $362 million and $319 million for
      2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Minimum
      payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable
      terms in excess of one year are: 

22. 

Guarantees
      and product warranty 

We have provided an indemnity to a
      third-party insurance company for potential losses related to performance
      bonds issued on behalf of Caterpillar dealers.  The bonds are
      issued to insure governmental agencies against nonperformance by certain
      Caterpillar dealers.  

We provide
      loan guarantees to third-party lenders for financing associated with
      machinery purchased by customers.  These guarantees have varying
      terms and are secured by the machinery. In addition, Cat Financial
      participates in standby letters of credit issued to third parties on
      behalf of their customers. These standby letters of credit have varying
      terms and beneficiaries and are secured by customer assets. 

Cat Financial
      has provided a limited indemnity to a third-party bank for $25 million
      resulting from the assignment of certain leases to that bank. The
      indemnity is for the possibility that the insurers of these leases would
      become insolvent. The indemnity expires December 15, 2012 and is
      unsecured.   

No loss has
      been experienced or is anticipated under any of these guarantees. At
      December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the related liability was $14
      million, $12 million and $10 million, respectively. The maximum
      potential amount of future payments (undiscounted and without reduction
      for any amounts that may possibly be recovered under recourse or
      collateralized provisions) we could be required to make under the
      guarantees at December 31 are as
follows: 

We provide
      guarantees to repurchase certain loans of Caterpillar dealers from a
      financial trust ( Trust ) that qualifies as a variable interest entity
      under FIN 46R.  The purpose of the Trust is to provide
      short-term working capital loans to Caterpillar dealers.  This
      Trust issues commercial paper and uses the proceeds to fund its loan
      program.  We have a loan purchase agreement with the Trust that
      obligates us to purchase certain loans that are not paid at
      maturity.  We receive a fee for providing this guarantee, which
      provides a source of liquidity for the Trust.  Prior to December
      2008, the loan purchase agreement was treated as a guarantee and disclosed
      in the table above as Guarantees with Caterpillar dealers.  At
      December 31, 2008, we determined that we were the primary beneficiary of
      the Trust as our guarantee would require us to absorb a majority of the
      entity s expected losses, and therefore consolidated the financial
      position of the Trust in Statement 2.  The Trust s assets of
      $477 million are primarily comprised of loans to dealers and the
      liabilities of $477 million are primarily comprised of commercial
      paper.  No loss has been experienced or is anticipated under
      this loan purchase agreement. Our assets are not available to pay
      creditors of the Trust, except to the extent we may be obligated to
      perform under the guarantee, and assets of the Trust are not available to
      pay our creditors. 

Cat Financial
      is party to agreements in the normal course of business with selected
      customers and Caterpillar dealers in which we commit to provide a set
      dollar amount of financing on a pre-approved basis.  We also
      provide lines of credit to selected customers and Caterpillar dealers, of
      which a portion remains unused as of the end of the
      period.  Commitments and lines of credit generally have fixed
      expiration dates or other termination clauses. It has been our experience
      that not all commitments and lines of credit will be used. Management
      applies the same credit policies when making commitments and granting
      lines of credit as it does for any other
  financing. 

Page A-47  

We do not
      require collateral for these commitments/lines, but if credit is extended,
      collateral may be required upon funding.  The amount of the
      unused commitments and lines of credit for dealers as of December 31,
      2008, 2007 and 2006 was $8,918 million, $8,249 million and $6,519 million,
      respectively.  The amount of the unused commitments and lines of
      credit for customers as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $3,085
      million, $3,001 million and $2,279 million, respectively. 

Our product
      warranty liability is determined by applying historical claim rate
      experience to the current field population and dealer
      inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on
      actual warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine
      size.  Specific rates are developed for each product build month
      and are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim
      experience. 

23. 

Environmental
      and legal matters 

The company is regulated by
      federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use,
      transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition
      to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often
      impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to,
      required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal
      combustion engines. Compliance with these existing laws has not had a
      material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or global
      competitive position.  

We are engaged in remedial
      activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant
      to federal and state laws.  When it is reasonably probable we
      will pay remedial costs at a site and those costs can be reasonably
      estimated, the costs are charged against our earnings.  In
      formulating that estimate, we do not consider amounts expected to be
      recovered from insurance companies or others.  The amount
      recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in
       Accrued expenses  in the Consolidated Statement of Financial
      Position.  

We cannot reasonably estimate
      costs at sites in the very early stages of
      remediation.  Currently, we have a few sites in the very early
      stages of remediation and there is no more than a remote chance that a
      material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all
      sites in the aggregate, will be required.  

On May 14, 2007, the U.S.
      Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of Violation to
      Caterpillar Inc., alleging various violations of Clean Air Act Sections
      203, 206 and 207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar violated such
      sections by shipping engines and catalytic converter after-treatment
      devices separately, introducing into commerce a number of uncertified
      and/or misbuilt engines and failing to timely report emissions-related
      defects.  Caterpillar is currently engaging in negotiations with
      EPA to resolve these issues, but we are unable at this time to place
      precise estimates on the potential exposure to
      penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and,
      based upon initial discussions and although penalties could potentially
      exceed $100,000, management does not believe that this issue will have a
      material adverse impact on our financial position.  

We have disclosed certain
      individual legal proceedings in this filing.  Additionally, we
      are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal
      course of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve
      disputes related to product design, manufacture and performance liability
      (including claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts,
      employment issues or intellectual property rights.  Although it
      is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved
      legal actions, we believe that these actions will not individually or in
      the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
      position, liquidity or results of operations.  

On September 29, 2004, Kruse
      Technology Partnership (Kruse) filed a lawsuit against Caterpillar in the
      United States District Court for the Central District of California
      alleging that certain Caterpillar engines built from October 2002 to the
      present infringe upon certain claims of three of Kruse's patents on engine
      fuel injection timing and combustion strategies.  Caterpillar
      denied Kruse's allegations and filed a counterclaim seeking a declaration
      from the court that Caterpillar is not infringing upon Kruse's patents and
      that the patents are invalid and unenforceable.  On December 20,
      2008, Caterpillar and Kruse entered into a confidential settlement
      agreement whereby all pending claims with regard to the lawsuit were
      settled.  The settlement, which did not have a material impact
      on our financial statements, included an agreement by both parties to not
      bring any future actions in the matter.  Subsequent to the
      agreement, the court entered an order dismissing the
      case.  

Page A-48  

24. 

Segment
      information 

A. 

Basis
      for segment information 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Caterpillar is
      organized based on a decentralized structure that has established
      responsibilities to continually improve business focus and increase our
      ability to react quickly to changes in the global business cycle, customer
      needs and competitors' actions. Our current structure uses a product,
      geographic matrix organization comprised of multiple profit and cost
      center divisions. 

In the first
      quarter of 2008, our internal measurement system was changed to reflect a
      revised set of responsibilities for divisions as
  follows: 

Product and
      component divisions are profit centers primarily responsible for product
      management, development, external sales and ongoing support. Inter-segment
      sales of components may also be a source of revenue for these divisions.
      Previously product division revenue was primarily inter-segment sales of
      finished products to machinery marketing divisions. 

Manufacturing
      divisions are profit centers primarily responsible for the manufacture of
      products and/or components within a geographic region. Inter-segment sales
      of components, machines and/or engines to product divisions are the
      primary sources of revenue for these divisions. Previously manufacturing
      divisions  inter-segment sales were primarily to machinery marketing or
      product divisions. 

Service
      divisions are cost centers primarily responsible for the performance of
      corporate functions and to provide centralized services.  They
      also perform certain support functions globally (e.g., Finance,
      Information Technology and Human Resources) that were previously included
      in product, component, manufacturing and machinery marketing
      divisions. 

Machinery
      marketing divisions are cost centers primarily responsible for marketing
      through dealers within a geographic region.  These divisions
      were previously profit centers responsible for external
    sales. 

Caterpillar is
      a highly integrated company. Some product and component divisions also
      have marketing and/or manufacturing responsibilities. In addition, some
      geographically based manufacturing divisions also have product management,
      development, external sales and ongoing support
      responsibilities.  One of our profit centers provides various
      financial services to our customers and dealers. 

Also in the
      first quarter of 2008, a new profit center was formed through
      restructuring the Large Power Systems and Power Systems   OEM
      Solutions reportable segments.  The new profit center, Marine
        Petroleum Power Division is a reportable segment primarily
      responsible for the product management, development, marketing, external
      sales and ongoing support of reciprocating engines supplied to the marine
      and petroleum industries.  The division also includes
      manufacturing of certain reciprocating engines for marine, petroleum and
      electric power applications.  In addition, certain marketing
      functions previously included in Power Systems   OEM Solutions were
      transferred to Large Power Systems and Motion   Power Control Division
      (included in  All Other ). 

The segment
      information for 2007 and 2006 has been retrospectively adjusted to conform
      to the 2008 presentation. 

We have
      developed an internal measurement system to evaluate performance and to
      drive continuous improvement. This measurement system, which is not based
      on U.S. GAAP, is intended to motivate desired behavior of employees and
      drive performance.  It is not intended to measure a division's
      contribution to enterprise results. The sales and cost information used
      for internal purposes varies significantly from our consolidated
      externally reported information, resulting in substantial reconciling
      items.  Each division has specific performance targets and is
      evaluated and compensated based on achieving those targets. Performance
      targets differ from division to division; therefore, meaningful
      comparisons cannot be made among the profit, service or machinery
      marketing divisions.  It is the comparison of actual results to
      budgeted results that makes our internal reporting valuable to
      management.  Consequently, we feel that the financial
      information required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
      131 (SFAS 131), "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
      Information" has limited value for our external readers. 

Due to
      Caterpillar's high level of integration and our concern that segment
      disclosures based on SFAS 131 requirements have limited value to external
      readers, we are continuing to disclose financial results for our three
      principal lines of business (Machinery, Engines and Financial Products) in
      our Management's Discussion and Analysis beginning on page
      A-62. 

B. 

Description
      of segments 

The profit
      center divisions meet the SFAS 131 definition of "operating
      segments;" however, the service and machinery marketing divisions do
      not.  Following is a brief description of our nine reportable
      segments and the business activities included in the  All Other 
      category. 

Building Construction
      Products :    Primarily
      responsible for product management, development, manufacture, external
      sales and ongoing support of light construction machines and select work
      tools. 

Page A-49  

EAME Operations :
      Primarily responsible for the manufacture of medium and large excavators,
      medium wheel loaders, articulated trucks, medium track-type tractors,
      wheel and small excavators and certain machine components in Europe,
      Africa and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).  Also
      responsible for product management, development, manufacture, external
      sales and ongoing support of paving products and select work
      tools. 

Electric
      Power : Primarily responsible for product management,
      development, manufacture, marketing, external sales and ongoing support of
      reciprocating engine powered generator sets as well as integrated systems
      used in the electric power generation industry. 

Heavy Construction  
      Mining : Primarily responsible for product management, development,
      external sales and ongoing support of mining trucks, quarry and
      construction trucks, large and medium track-type tractors, large wheel
      loaders, wheel tractor scrapers and track-type loaders. 

Industrial Power
      Systems : Primarily responsible for product management, development,
      manufacture and ongoing support of reciprocating engines supplied to
      industrial, agricultural, electric power and marine industries and
      Caterpillar machinery.  Also responsible for the marketing and
      external sales of industrial, agricultural and certain electric power
      engines. 

Infrastructure
      Development :   Primarily
      responsible for product management, development, external sales and
      ongoing support of medium wheel loaders, medium and large excavators,
      motor graders, articulated trucks, powertrain components and wheeled
      excavators. 

Large Power
      Systems : Primarily responsible for product management,
      development, manufacture and ongoing support of reciprocating engines
      supplied to Caterpillar machinery and the electric power, on-highway
      vehicle, petroleum, marine and industrial industries.  Also
      responsible for engine component manufacturing and the marketing and
      external sales of on-highway vehicle engines. 

Marine  
      Petroleum Power  :
      Primarily responsible for the product management, development, marketing,
      external sales and ongoing support of reciprocating engines supplied to
      the marine and petroleum industries.  The division also includes
      manufacturing of certain reciprocating engines for marine, petroleum and
      electric power applications.  

Financing   Insurance
      Services : Provides financing to customers and dealers for the
      purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment, as well as some
      financing for Caterpillar sales to dealers.  Financing plans
      include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, working
      capital loans and wholesale financing plans. The division also provides
      various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the
      purchase and lease of our equipment. 

All
      Other :  Primarily includes activities such as: the
      regional manufacturing of construction and mining machinery and components
      in Latin America, North America and Asia; the design, manufacture,
      marketing, external sales and ongoing support of machinery and engine
      components, electronics and control systems; the design, manufacture,
      marketing, external sales and ongoing support of turbines; logistics
      services for Caterpillar and other companies; the design, manufacture,
      remanufacture, maintenance and services of rail-related products and
      services; remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and components and
      remanufacturing services for other companies; the design, manufacture,
      external sales and ongoing support of forestry machinery; and the
      manufacturing of construction and mining machinery and components,
      marketing, external sales and ongoing support of machinery, engines and
      components in Japan. 

C. 

Segment
      measurement and reconciliations 

There are
      several accounting differences between our segment reporting and our
      external reporting. Our segments are measured on an accountable basis;
      therefore, only those items for which divisional management is directly
      responsible are included in the determination of segment profit (loss) and
      assets. 

The following
      is a list of the more significant accounting differences: 

Generally,
      liabilities are managed at the corporate level and are not included in
      segment operations. Segment accountable assets generally include
      inventories, receivables and property, plant and equipment. 

Segment
      inventories and cost of sales are valued using a current cost
      methodology. 

Postretirement
      benefit expenses are split; segments are generally responsible for service
      and prior service costs, with the remaining elements of net periodic
      benefit cost included as a methodology difference. 

Currency
      exposures are generally managed at the corporate level and the effects of
      changes in exchange rates on results of operations within the year are not
      included in segment results.  The net difference created in the
      translation of revenues and costs between exchange rates used for U.S.
      GAAP reporting and exchange rates used for segment reporting are recorded
      as a methodology difference. 

Page A-50  

Interest
      expense is imputed (i.e., charged) to profit centers based on their level
      of accountable assets. 

Accountable
      profit is determined on a pretax basis. 

Effective the
      first quarter of 2008, we made the following changes to our segment
      reporting methodology: 

Manufacturing
      divisions value inter-segment sales of machines on a manufacturing fee
      basis.  Previously these transactions were valued at
      market-based transfer prices. 

Service
      divisions are primarily treated as cost centers.  Previously,
      service divisions primarily charged segments for services
      provided. 

Machinery
      marketing divisions are treated as cost centers.  These
      divisions were previously treated as profit centers responsible for
      external sales.  External sales are now the responsibility of
      product divisions. 

The
      information for 2007 and 2006 has been retrospectively adjusted to conform
      to the 2008 presentation.  

Reconciling
      items are created based on accounting differences between segment
      reporting and our consolidated, external reporting. Please refer to pages
      A-52 to A-56 for financial information regarding significant reconciling
      items. Most of our reconciling items are self-explanatory given the above
      explanations of accounting differences. However, for the reconciliation of
      profit, we have grouped the reconciling items as follows: 

Cost
      centers:   The costs related to service and machinery
      marketing divisions are primarily treated as cost centers and are not
      charged to segments. 

Corporate costs:  
      Certain corporate costs are not charged to our segments. These costs are
      related to corporate requirements and strategies that are considered to be
      for the benefit of the entire organization. 

Timing:  Timing
      differences in the recognition of costs between segment reporting and
      consolidated external reporting. 

Employee separation charges:
       See Note 26. 

Methodology differences:
       See previous discussion of significant accounting differences
      between segment reporting and consolidated external
    reporting. 

Page A-51  

Page A-52  

Page A-53  

Page A-54  

Page A-55  

25. 

Business
      combinations 

Lovat
      Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In April 2008,
      we acquired 100 percent of the equity in privately held Lovat Inc. (Lovat)
      for approximately $49 million.  Based in Toronto, Canada, Lovat
      is a leading manufacturer of tunnel boring machines used globally in the
      construction of subway, railway, road, sewer, water main, mine access and
      high voltage cable and telecommunications tunnels.  Expansion
      into the tunnel boring business is a strong fit with our strategic
      direction and the customers we serve around the world. 

The
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $10 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $17 million
      related to customer relationships, intellectual property and trade names
      are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average
      amortization period of approximately 6 years.  Goodwill of $22
      million, non-deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of
      cost over the fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible
      assets acquired.  These values represent a preliminary
      allocation of the purchase price subject to finalization of fair value
      appraisals and other post-closing procedures.  The results of
      the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are
      included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and
      reported in the  All Other  category in Note 24.  Assuming this
      transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the
      consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from
      reported results. 

Gremada
      Industries Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In July 2008,
      we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Gremada
      Industries, Inc. (Gremada), a supplier to our remanufacturing
      business.  The cost of the acquisition was $62 million,
      consisting of $60 million paid at closing and an additional $2 million
      post-closing adjustment paid in August 2008.  Gremada is a
      remanufacturer of transmissions, torque converters, final drives and
      related components.  This acquisition increases our product and
      service offerings for our existing customers, while providing a platform
      for further growth opportunities. 

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $21 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Goodwill of $41 million, deductible for income tax
      purposes, represents the excess cost over the fair value of net tangible
      and finite-lived intangible assets acquired.  The results of the
      acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in
      the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the
       All Other  category in Note 24.  Assuming this transaction had
      been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro
      forma results would not be materially different from reported
      results. 

Page A-56  

Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               On August 1, 2008, SCM completed
      the first phase of a share redemption plan whereby SCM redeemed half of
      MHI s shares in SCM for $464 million.  This resulted in
      Caterpillar owning 67 percent of the outstanding shares of SCM and MHI
      owning the remaining 33 percent.  As part of the share
      redemption, SCM was renamed Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat
      Japan).  Both Cat Japan and MHI have options, exercisable after
      five years, to require the redemption of the remaining shares owned by
      MHI, which if exercised, would make Caterpillar the sole owner of Cat
      Japan.  The share redemption plan is part of our comprehensive
      business strategy for expansion in the emerging markets of Asia and the
      Commonwealth of Independent States and will allow Cat Japan s
      manufacturing, design and process expertise to be fully leveraged across
      the global Caterpillar enterprise.  

The change in Caterpillar s
      ownership interest from 50 percent to 67 percent was accounted for as a
      business combination.  The $464 million redemption price was
      assigned to 17 percent of Cat Japan s assets and liabilities based upon
      their respective fair values as of the transaction date.  The
      revaluation resulted in an increase in property, plant and equipment of
      $78 million and an increase in inventory of $8 million over the book value
      of these assets.  Finite-lived intangible assets of $54 million
      were recognized and related primarily to customer relationships,
      intellectual property and trade names. These intangibles are being
      amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average amortization
      period of approximately 9 years.  Deferred tax liabilities of
      $57 million were also recognized as part of the business combination.
      Goodwill of $206 million, non-deductible for income tax purposes,
      represents the excess of the redemption price over the 17 percent of Cat
      Japan s net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets that were reported
      at their fair values.  

Because Cat Japan is accounted for
      on a lag, we consolidated Cat Japan s August 1, 2008 financial position on
      September 30, 2008.  We began consolidating Cat Japan s results
      of operations in the fourth quarter of 2008. Including the amounts
      assigned as part of the business combination, the initial consolidation of
      Cat Japan s financial position resulted in a net increase in assets of
      $2,396 million (primarily property, plant and equipment of $1,279 million,
      inventory of $640 million, receivables of $612 million, and goodwill and
      intangibles of $260 million partially offset by a $528 million reduction
      in investment in unconsolidated affiliates) and a net increase in
      liabilities of $2,045 million (including $1,388 million in
      debt).  Cat Japan s functional currency is the Japanese
      Yen.  

Additionally, the remaining 33
      percent of Cat Japan owned by MHI has been reported as redeemable
      noncontrolling interest and classified as mezzanine equity (temporary
      equity) in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. On September
      30, 2008, the redeemable noncontrolling interest was reported at its
      estimated future redemption value of $464 million with the difference
      between the $351 million book value of the 33 percent interest and the
      redemption value reported as a $113 million reduction of Profit employed
      in the business.  

In subsequent reporting periods,
      the redeemable noncontrolling interest will continue to be reported at its
      estimated redemption value.  Any adjustment to the redemption
      value will impact Profit employed in the business, but will not impact
      Profit.  If the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling
      interest falls below the redemption value, profit available to common
      stockholders would be reduced by the difference between the redemption
      value and the fair value.  This would result in lower profit in
      the profit per common share computation in that
      period.  Reductions impacting the profit per common share
      computation may be partially or fully reversed in subsequent periods if
      the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest increases
      relative to the redemption value.  Such increases in profit per
      common share would be limited to cumulative prior
      reductions.  As of December 31, 2008, there has been no change
      to the estimated future redemption value, and the fair value of the
      redeemable noncontrolling interest has remained greater than the
      redemption value.  

With the
      consolidation of Cat Japan s results of operations, 33 percent of Cat
      Japan s comprehensive income or loss is attributed to the redeemable
      noncontrolling interest, impacting its carrying value.  Because
      the redeemable noncontrolling interest must be reported at its estimated
      future redemption value, the impact from attributing the comprehensive
      income or loss is offset by adjusting the carrying value to the redemption
      value.  This adjustment impacts Profit employed in the business,
      but not Profit.  In 2008, we adjusted the carrying value by $2
      million resulting in a corresponding reduction to Profit employed in the
      business.  As Cat Japan s functional currency is the Japanese
      Yen, changes in exchange rates affect the reported amount of the
      redeemable noncontrolling interest.  At December 31, 2008, the
      redeemable noncontrolling interest was $524 million. 

Cat Japan was included in the  All
      Other  category in Note 24.  Assuming this transaction had been
      made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma
      results would not be materially different from reported
      results.  

Forestry
      Division of Blount International, Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              In November
      2007, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain
      liabilities of Blount International s Forestry Division. The cost of the
      acquisition was $82 million, consisting of $79 million in cash and a net
      employee benefit liability incurred of $3 million.  Blount s
      Forestry Division manufactures, markets and supports timber harvesting and
      processing equipment, loaders and attachments. The acquisition supports
      our corporate objective to be the forestry market leader and enables us to
      offer the broadest product line in the industry with a full range of
      products and services for logging, millyard, road-building and land
      management. 

Page A-57  

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $36 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $24 million
      related to customer relationships, intellectual property and trade names
      are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average
      amortization period of approximately 9 years.  Goodwill of $22
      million, deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost
      over the fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets
      acquired. The results of the acquired business for the period from the
      acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial
      statements and reported in the  All Other  category in Note
      24.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of
      any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be
      materially different from reported
results. 

Franklin
      Power Products 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In February
      2007, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of
      Franklin Power Products, Inc. (FPP) and International Fuel Systems, Inc.
      (IFS), subsidiaries of Remy International. In June 2007, pursuant to the
      acquisition agreement, additional assets were purchased from Remy
      International for $7 million which increased the total purchase price to
      approximately $165 million, consisting of $160 million paid at the
      closings and an additional $5 million post closing adjustment paid in July
      2007.   FPP is a remanufacturer of on-highway light and
      medium duty truck diesel engines and engine components. IFS provides
      remanufactured diesel components such as high-pressure fuel pumps, fuel
      injectors and turbochargers. This acquisition represents a strategic
      expansion of our engine and engine component remanufacturing
      operations. 

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $39 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $89 million
      related to customer relationships are primarily being amortized on a
      straight-line basis over 20 years.  Goodwill of $37 million,
      deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the
      fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets
      acquired.  The results of the acquired business for the period
      from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated
      financial statements and reported in the  All Other  category in Note
      24.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of
      any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be
      materially different from reported
results. 

Large
      Components Business of Royal Oak Industries, Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In August
      2006, we acquired the large components business of Royal Oak Industries,
      Inc. (Royal Oak), a supplier to our engines business, for $97 million,
      consisting of $92 million at closing and $5 million plus accrued interest
      paid in December 2008.   The  business acquired
      provides machining of engine cylinder blocks, heads, manifolds and bearing
      caps. This acquisition expands our machining operations in our engine
      manufacturing business. 

The
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings. Net tangible assets acquired of $58 million, consisting of
      property, plant and equipment, accounts receivable and inventory, were
      recorded at their fair values.  No intangible assets were
      acquired.  Goodwill of $39 million,  deductible for income tax
      purposes,  represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the
      acquired net tangible assets.  The results of the acquired
      business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the
      accompanying consolidated financial statements and reported in the  Large
      Power Systems  segment in Note 24.  Assuming this transaction
      had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated
      pro forma results would not be materially different from reported
      results. 

Progress
      Rail Services, Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In June 2006, Caterpillar acquired
      100 percent of the equity in privately held Progress Rail Services, Inc.
      (Progress Rail) for approximately $1 billion, including the assumption of
      $200 million in debt. Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a
      leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products
      and services to the North American railroad industry. The company also has
      one of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North
      America. When acquired, Progress Rail operated more than 90 facilities in
      29 states in the United States, Canada and Mexico, with about 3,700
      employees. Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is a strong
      fit with our strategic direction and will leverage Caterpillar's
      remanufacturing capabilities.  

The transaction was financed with
      available cash and commercial paper borrowings of $427 million and
      Caterpillar stock of $379 million (5.3 million shares). Net tangible
      assets acquired, recorded at their fair values, primarily were inventories
      of $257 million, receivables of $169 million and property, plant and
      equipment of $260 million. Liabilities acquired, recorded at their fair
      values, primarily consisted of assumed debt of $200 million, accounts
      payable of $148 million and net deferred tax liabilities of $115 million.
      Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $223 million related primarily
      to customer relationships are being amortized on a straight-line basis
      over 20 years. Goodwill of $431 million, non-deductible for income tax
      purposes, represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net
      tangible and finite-lived intangible assets acquired. The results of the
      acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in
      the accompanying consolidated financial statements and reported in the
       All Other  category in Note 24. Assuming this transaction had been made
      at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma
      results would not be materially different from reported
      results.  

Page A-58  

26. 

Employee
      separation charges 

During 2008,
      we recognized employee separation charges of $30 million in Other
      operating expenses in Statement 1 related to various voluntary and
      involuntary separation programs.  These programs, impacting
      approximately 3,000 production and support and management employees
      world-wide, are in response to a sharp decline in sales volume due to the
      current global recession.  Our accounting for separations is
      dependent upon how the particular program is designed.  For
      voluntary programs, eligible separation costs are recognized at the time
      of employee acceptance.  For involuntary programs, eligible
      costs are recognized when management has approved the program, the
      affected employees have been properly identified and the costs are
      estimable. 

The separation
      charges, which will be made up primarily of cash severance payments, were
      not assigned to operating segments and are included in the reconciliation
      of total accountable profit from business segments to total profit before
      taxes.  See Note 24 for further details.  The
      following table summarizes the separation charges by geographic
      region: 

As of December
      31, 2008, approximately 1,600 employees had separated, with the remaining
      separations expected by the end of first quarter 2009.  The
      majority of the remaining costs will be paid by the end of the first
      quarter 2009. 

27. 

Selected
      quarterly financial results
(unaudited) 

Page A-59  

Employee
      Separation Programs 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In response to
      the expected sharp decline in 2009 sales volume, Caterpillar implemented
      the following employee separation programs during 2009: 

U.S.
      Voluntary Separation Program     -  During December 2008,
      we announced a voluntary separation program for certain support and
      management employees based in the United States.  Eligible
      employees had until January 12, 2009 to sign-up for the plan, and
      generally until January 31, 2009 to make a final
      decision.  Participating employees will receive severance pay
      based on current salary level and years of service.  As of
      January 31, 2009, approximately 2,200 employees had accepted the program
      and are generally expected to separate from Caterpillar by March 31,
      2009.  We are currently estimating the costs associated with
      this program. 

Other
      U.S. Separation Programs   -  During 2009, we
      initiated plans to reduce U.S. based production and support and management
      positions through a variety of programs.  For support and
      management employees, these include involuntary separation
      programs.  For production employees, these include both
      involuntary and voluntary separation programs.  We are currently
      estimating the costs associated with these programs. 

Non-U.S.
      Separation Programs   -  We have
      initiated several other separation programs during 2009.  These
      programs, designed specific to the laws and regulations of the individual
      countries, represent voluntary and involuntary plans for production and
      support and management employees.  We are currently estimating
      the costs associated with these programs. 

We will
      continue to monitor the economic environment and, depending on business
      conditions, more voluntary and involuntary workforce reductions may be
      required as 2009 unfolds. 

Cat
      Financial Debt Issuance 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          On February
      12, 2009, Cat Financial issued $350 million of 5.75% notes due in 2012,
      $1.65 billion of 6.125% notes due in 2014 and $1.0 billion of 7.15% notes
      due in 2019.  The net proceeds from the issuance will be used to
      reduce short-term debt and for general corporate
  purposes. 

Page A-60  

1  

Computed on
      weighted-average number of shares outstanding. 

2  

Computed on
      weighted-average number of shares outstanding diluted by assumed exercise
      of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury stock
      method. 

3  

Represents
      profit divided by average stockholders' equity (beginning of year
      stockholders' equity plus end of year stockholders' equity divided by
      two). 

4  

The per share
      data reflects the 2005 2-for-1 stock split. 

5  

As discussed
      in Note 1K, effective December 31, 2006 we changed the manner in which we
      accounted for postemployment benefits upon the adoption of SFAS
      158. 

6  

As discussed
      in Note 1M, in 2006 we changed the manner in which we accounted for
      stock-based compensation upon the adoption of SFAS
123R. 

7  

As discussed
      in Note 1K, in 2007 we changed the manner in which we accounted for
      uncertain tax positions upon the adoption of FIN
  48. 

Page A-61  

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

OVERVIEW   

2008 sales and
revenues were $51.324 billion, up 14 percent from 2007.  Profit per
share was $5.66, up 5 percent and profit after tax of $3.557 billion was about
flat with 2007.  Fourth-quarter sales and revenues were $12.923
billion, 6 percent higher than the fourth quarter of 2007.  Profit per
share for the quarter was $1.08, down 28 percent from the fourth quarter of
2007. 

While 2008 was our
sixth consecutive year of record sales and revenues, it was an extraordinarily
challenging year. Through the first three quarters we experienced booming demand
from key global industries, notably mining and energy, and most emerging market
countries. Delivery times for many products were extended, and we were focused
on increasing production and expediting shipments to meet customer needs. Then
we were whipsawed in the fourth quarter as key industries were hit by a rapidly
deteriorating global economy and plunging commodity prices.  In
anticipation of lower demand we encouraged dealers to align inventory with
declining volume, and they responded with significant order cancellations,
particularly in December. 

For the year, sales
and revenues increased $6.366 billion  $3.816 billion from higher  sales
volume , $1.352 billion from improved  price
realization , $653 million from the effects of  currency ,
$284 million from higher Financial Products revenues and $261 million from the
consolidation of Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan).   Profit for
2008 was about flat with 2007, with the positive impact of higher price
realization, improved sales volume and lower income tax expense about offset by
higher operating costs, especially material and freight costs. 

Fourth-quarter sales
and revenues of $12.923 billion increased $779 million from the fourth quarter
of last year.  Higher sales volume of $494 million, improved price
realization of $308 million, $261 million related to the consolidation of Cat
Japan and $19 million from higher Financial Products revenues were partially
offset by $303 million of lower sales from the effects of
currency.  Fourth-quarter profit of $661 million decreased $314
million as significantly higher  Machinery 
and  Engines 
operating costs and a sharp decline in profit related to  Financial
Products , more than offset a $409 million favorable tax item and
favorable price realization. 

Fourth-quarter
profit was disappointing, particularly in light of record fourth-quarter sales
and revenues and a significant favorable tax
adjustment.  Fourth-quarter costs included transitional expenses as we
moved to lower volumes and initiated production cuts.  In addition,
Financial Products results were impaired by financial market
turbulence.  It is now clear that we need to sharply lower our
production and costs, and aggressive actions were triggered in
December. 

Global economic
conditions and key commodity prices have continued to decline
significantly.  Financial markets remain under stress, and our
expectations for 2009 have deteriorated.  Uncertainty around the depth
and duration of this recession makes it very difficult to forecast sales and
revenues.  As a result, we are rapidly executing strategic  trough 
plans and implementing actions throughout the company to deal with a very
challenging global business environment.  We have initiated actions
which will remove about 20,000 workers from our business and every indirect
spend dollar will be heavily scrutinized.  These actions support
lowering our production costs in line with a 25-percent decline in sales volume
and reducing Selling, General and Administrative (SG A) and Research and
Development (R D) costs supporting our  Machinery and
Engines  business by about 15 percent.  We are encouraged by
government stimulus programs and actions taken by central banks around the world
to spur growth.  However, economic conditions remain uncertain, and we
are planning for 2009 sales and revenues to be in a range of plus or minus 10
percent from $40 billion.  At $40 billion in 2009 sales and revenues,
the company expects to achieve profit of about $2.00 per share, or $2.50 per
share excluding redundancy costs. 

These are very
uncertain times, and it s imperative that we focus Team Caterpillar on
dramatically reducing production schedules and costs in light of poor economic
conditions throughout the world.  While it s painful for our employees
and suppliers, it s absolutely necessary given economic circumstances. We expect
to have most of the actions needed to lower employment and cost levels in place
by the end of the first quarter. 

Without a doubt,
2009 will be a very tough year, but it is important to remember that economic
cycles are not new, and we will emerge from this even stronger than we are
today.  Throughout our 83-year history Caterpillar has successfully
managed through the Great Depression, several recessions, a world war and
numerous other adversities. We re a strong company with a management team that s
been through tough times before.  We are the global leader, with an
unparalleled dealer network.  We ve strengthened our market position
in past recessions, and we have done so over the past few months.  In
addition, we will continue to invest in product technology and operational
efficiency through these tough times.  When the economy does recover,
the need for better housing, roads and capacity for energy and mining will still
be there, and we will be prepared to respond. 

*Glossary of terms
included on pages A-82 to A-83; first occurrence of terms shown in bold
italics. 

Page A-62  

2008
COMPARED WITH 2007   

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales
      and Revenues between 2007 (at left) and 2008 (at right).  Items
      favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with
      the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively
      impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar
      amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  The bar
      entitled Machinery Volume includes the impact of consolidation of Cat
      Japan sales. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company s Board of Directors and
      employees. 

Sales and revenues
for 2008 were $51.324 billion, up $6.366 billion, 14 percent, from
2007.  Machinery sales volume was up $2.399 billion, driven by
strength in developing economies. Engines sales volume increased $1.678 billion
due to growth in all major industries, with particular strength in
petroleum. 

In addition, price
realization contributed $1.352 billion, currency had a positive impact on sales
of $653 million driven primarily by the stronger euro and Financial Products
revenues increased 9 percent. 

Page A-63  

Machinery
Sales  

Sales of $31.804
billion increased $3.445 billion, or 12 percent, from 2007. 

Excluding the
      consolidation of Cat Japan, sales volume increased $2.138 billion, with
      the gain occurring in the developing economies of Africa/Middle East,
      Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Asia/Pacific and  Latin
      America . 

Price
      realization increased $541 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $505 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $2 million
      favorable. 

Dealers in all
      regions reported higher inventories than year-end 2007 in both dollars and
      months of supply. 

The U.S.
      economy was in recession throughout 2008, which contributed to weaknesses
      in both construction and quarrying.  Coal mining and oil sands
      development were about the only positives for North
    America. 

The euro-zone
      entered recession in the second quarter and the United Kingdom in the
      third quarter.  As a result of these recessions, housing
      construction declined sharply, nonresidential construction weakened and
      sales volume declined. 

Sales improved
      in the developing regions of Africa/Middle East, CIS, Asia/Pacific and
      Latin America through the first three quarters of
      2008.  However, growth slowed sharply in the fourth quarter in
      response to weakening economies. 

North America    Sales
increased $173 million, or 1 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $143 million. 

Price
      realization increased $316 million. 

Dealers added
      slightly to reported inventories this year, a contrast to more than a
      billion-dollar reduction in 2007.  Dealers reported higher
      inventories than a year earlier in both dollars and months of
      supply. 

Dealers
      reported significantly lower deliveries to end users, a result of the
      recession in the United States that persisted throughout the
      year.  That recession led to lower sales in most key industries
      other than coal mining and the Canadian oil
  sands. 

U.S. housing
      starts declined to 904 thousand units, the lowest since
      1945.  Negatives for housing included a severe tightening in
      mortgage lending standards, sharp declines in home prices and more than an
      11-month supply of unsold new homes.  Canadian housing starts
      declined 6 percent. 

Spending for
      U.S. nonresidential construction increased in response to the surge in new
      orders over the past few years.  However, new orders for
      commercial construction declined 18 percent in 2008.  Problems
      for building construction included increased vacancy rates, declines in
      property prices and tighter credit conditions for
    businesses. 

New orders for
      highway construction declined almost 7 percent.  Unfavorable
      factors included limited growth in Federal highway funding, state and
      local government budget difficulties and a sharp increase in material
      input prices. 

Nonmetals
      mining and quarry production dropped almost 14 percent in response to
      lower construction activity. 

The Central
      Appalachian coal price rose 90 percent, driven by a 43-percent increase in
      U.S. coal exports.  U.S. coal production increased 2.2 percent,
      and Canadian production rose 1.2 percent.  As a result, sales of
      the large tractors used in coal mining
surged. 

Investment in
      Canadian oil sands increased 23 percent, benefiting from a 38-percent
      increase in crude oil prices. 

EAME      Sales increased $632
million, or 7 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $196 million. 

Price
      realization increased $66 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $370 million. 

Dealers
      reported year-end 2008 inventories that were significantly higher than a
      year earlier in both dollars and months of
  supply. 

Sales volume
      dropped in both the euro-zone and the United Kingdom, due to recessions
      and a slowing in construction. 

Page A-64  

Housing
      permits in the euro-zone dropped 22 percent, and U.K. housing orders fell
      35 percent.  High interest rates and home price declines in
      several European countries contributed to weakness in
    housing. 

Mining and
      energy development, as well as increased construction, caused sales volume
      to increase in Africa/Middle East.  Oil prices increased 37
      percent, and production rose more than 4 percent from a year earlier,
      which led to an increase in
drilling. 

Sales volume
      increased significantly in the CIS region, despite economic problems that
      developed in the fourth quarter.  Positive factors included low
      interest rates, increased government spending, increased energy prices and
      higher production of most energy
commodities. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$1,683 million, or 42 percent. 

Sales volume
      excluding the consolidation of Cat Japan increased $1,254
      million. 

Price
      realization increased $91 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $77 million. 

Dealers
      reported year-end 2008 inventories that were significantly higher than a
      year earlier in both dollars and months of
  supply. 

The largest
      gain in sales volume occurred in China, the result of higher sales of
      locally produced wheel loaders and increased construction
      activity. 

Another large
      gain in sales volume occurred in Indonesia, largely due to much higher
      coal prices.  Indonesia is the world s largest exporter of
      thermal coal, and coal supplies in Asia were very tight for most of the
      year. 

Sales volume
      increased in Australia, primarily due to high metals and energy
      prices.  Capital expenditures for mineral development increased
      37 percent, and expenditures for coal increased 46
      percent.  Rapid growth in the mining industry stretched
      infrastructure capacity so investment in infrastructure increased 13
      percent. 

In India,
      11-percent growth in construction and 4 percent higher mining output
      contributed to an increase in sales
volume. 

Latin America    Sales
increased $957 million, or 30 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $833 million. 

Price
      realization increased $66 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $58 million. 

Dealers
      reported year-end 2008 inventories that were significantly higher than a
      year earlier in both dollars and months of
  supply. 

Brazil had the
      largest increase in sales volume.  Economic growth continued to
      benefit from interest rate reductions taken in 2007, resulting in a
      10-percent increase in construction.  Iron ore exports increased
      62 percent, due to increased production and much higher
      prices. 

Sales volume
      increased sharply in Mexico.  Positives included much higher oil
      prices, increased natural gas production and 3-percent growth in
      construction. 

Sales volume
      growth in Colombia occurred in response to much higher coal
      prices.  In Chile, high copper prices led to an increase in
      sales volume. 

Engines
Sales  

Sales of $16.240
billion increased $2.637 billion, or 19 percent, from 2007. 

Price
      realization increased $811 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales $148 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $36 million
      favorable. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories were up, and months of supply were up slightly, supporting
      strong delivery rates. 

Page A-65  

North America    Sales   increased $353 million,
or 7 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $62 million. 

Price
      realization increased $291 million. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications increased 10 percent compared to a very weak
      2007.  Demand remained below historic norms due to the slowing
      U.S. economy that resulted in a reduction in freight tonnage. Also, the
      impact of the decision to exit the on-highway truck business was starting
      to be felt as Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) customers reduced
      their reliance on Caterpillar
products. 

Sales for
      petroleum engine applications increased 5 percent, driven by a slight
      increase in natural gas and drilling
  applications. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 37 percent, with strong demand early in the
      year for supply vessels that support offshore drilling.  This
      more than offset a decline in engine sales for pleasure
    craft. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 11
percent. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 2 percent due to economic
      uncertainty and tightening credit
conditions. 

EAME    Sales increased $1,066
million, or 20 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $639 million. 

Price
      realization increased $293 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $134 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 46 percent based on strong demand for
      engines used in drilling and production.  Turbines and
      turbine-related services increased in support of gas transmission and oil
      and gas production applications in Africa, Europe and the Middle
      East. 

Sales for
      electric power applications increased 18 percent, with strong demand for
      large- and mid-sized generator sets into Africa and the Middle
      East.  Mid-sized generator sets also benefited from successful
      rental development. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 30 percent in workboats and commercial
      vessels. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 6 percent, with strong demand for small
      engines used in the telecom sector.  In addition, demand for
      agricultural applications also improved as a result of high agricultural
      commodity prices. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$774 million, or 36 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $603 million. 

Price
      realization increased $157 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $14 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 54 percent to support record Chinese
      drill rig activity and increased demand for Asian shipyards in support of
      offshore drilling. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 30 percent, with strong demand for workboats
      and offshore shipbuilding.  Large diesel demand grew in the
      offshore and general cargo
industries. 

Sales of
      electric power engines increased 18 percent, with increased demand from
      Bangladesh industrial customers, and continued success with Chinese coal
      mine methane customers, for large gas generator sets.  Diesel
      demand resulted from data and telecommunication center demand in China,
      and utility, mining and paper mill demand from
  Indonesia. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 62 percent driven by sales in Australia
      into mining and irrigation sectors and by sales in New
      Zealand. 

Latin America    Sales
increased $444 million, or 39 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $410 million. 

Price
      realization increased $34 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 61 percent driven by the heightened
      demand for power to support drilling and production in Argentina,
      Venezuela, Mexico and Peru. Turbines and turbine-related services
      increased for oil and gas production and gas transmission applications in
      South America. 

Page A-66  

Sales of
      electric power engines increased 37 percent driven by high commodity
      prices and infrastructure
investment. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 29 percent.  This demand was
      driven by good economic conditions and higher agricultural commodity
      prices. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications decreased 7 percent as a result of a loss of
      OEM business in this region. 

Financial Products
Revenues  

Revenues of $3.280
billion increased $284 million, or 9 percent, from 2007. 

Growth in
      average  earning
      assets  increased revenues $368 million, which was partially offset
      by a decrease of $175 million due to lower interest rates on new and
      existing finance receivables. 

Revenues from
      earned premiums at Cat Insurance increased $84
  million. 

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The chart above graphically
      illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit
      between 2007 (at left) and 2008 (at right).  Items favorably
      impacting operating profit appear as upward stair steps with the
      corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively
      impacting operating profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar
      amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar
      management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with
      the company s Board of Directors and employees.  The bar
      entitled Other includes the operating profit impact of  consolidating
      adjustments  ,
      consolidation of Cat Japan and   Machinery
      and Engines other operating expenses  .    

2008 operating profit of $4.448 billion
was down $473 million from 2007 as improved price realization and higher sales
volume were more than offset by higher costs and the unfavorable impact of
currency.  

Manufacturing
costs   increased $1.694
billion compared with 2007.  The majority of the manufacturing cost
increase was driven by higher material and freight costs.  Material
costs increased due to higher steel and commodity prices, and freight costs
increased primarily due to higher fuel prices, and expediting costs related to
higher production volume.  In addition, manufacturing labor and
overhead costs increased to support capacity expansion and velocity
initiatives.  

SG A and R D costs were up $605
million to support significant new product programs and
growth.  

Currency had a $154 million unfavorable
impact on operating profit as the benefit to sales was more than offset by the
negative impact on costs.  
  Page A-67  

Machinery
        operating profit of
      $1.803 billion was down $955 million, or 35 percent, from
      2007.  Improved price realization and higher sales volume were
      more than offset by higher costs and the unfavorable impact of
      currency.  

Engines   operating profit of $2.319
      billion was up $493 million, or 27 percent, from 2007.  The
      favorable impacts of improved price realization and higher sales volume
      were partially offset by higher
costs.  

Financial Products
       operating profit of $579 million was down $111 million, or 16
      percent, from 2007.  The decrease was attributable to a $136
      million increase in SG A expenses due primarily to a $95 million
      increase in the provision for credit losses at Cat Financial, a $105
      million impact from decreased net yield of average earning assets,
      partially offset by a $130 million favorable impact from higher average
      earning assets. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Other income/expense  was
      income of $299 million compared with income of $320 million in
      2007.  The favorable currency impacts of $79 million were more
      than offset by a $50 million unfavorable change in mark-to-market
      adjustments on interest rate derivative contracts at Cat Financial and a
      $37 million impairment of investments in Cat Insurance s portfolio as a
      result of poor market performance.  In addition, a 2008 gain of
      $60 million on the sale of our equity investment in ASV was partially
      offset by the absence of a $46 million gain on the sale of a cost-basis
      investment in 2007. 

The
      provision for income taxes   for
      2008 reflects an annual tax rate of 31.5 percent, excluding the discrete
      items discussed below, compared to a 30-percent rate in
      2007.  The increase in the tax rate excluding discrete items
      over 2007 is attributable to changes in our geographic mix of profits from
      a tax perspective.   

The
      provision for income taxes for 2008 also includes discrete benefits of
      $456 million.  Repatriation of non-U.S. earnings resulted in a
      tax benefit of $409 million due to available foreign tax credits in excess
      of the U.S. tax liability on the dividend.  A benefit of $47
      million was also recorded in 2008 due to a change in tax status of a
      non-U.S. subsidiary allowing indefinite reinvestment of undistributed
      profits and reversal of U.S. tax previously
    recorded.  

Equity in
      profit/(loss) of unconsolidated affiliated companies   was income of $37 million compared
      with income of $73 million in 2007. The decrease is primarily related to
      lower profit at   Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM)   through the first nine months and
      the absence of profit after the consolidation of Cat
      Japan.  

On August 1, 2008, SCM redeemed
      one-half of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. s (MHI s) shares in SCM for
      $464 million.  Caterpillar now owns 67 percent of the renamed
      entity, Caterpillar Japan Ltd.  We consolidated Cat Japan s
      balance sheet on September 30, 2008.  We began consolidating Cat
      Japan s results of operations in the fourth
  quarter.  

Page A-68  

FOURTH
QUARTER 2008 COMPARED WITH FOURTH QUARTER 2007   

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales
      and Revenues between fourth quarter 2007 (at left) and fourth quarter 2008
      (at right).  Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear
      as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each
      bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as
      downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above
      each bar.  The bar entitled Machinery Volume includes the impact
      of consolidation of Cat Japan sales.  Caterpillar management
      utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the
      company s Board of Directors and employees. 

Page A-69  

Sales and revenues
for fourth quarter 2008 were $12.923 billion, up $779 million, or 6 percent,
from fourth quarter 2007.  Machinery volume was up $297
million.  Excluding Cat Japan, machinery volume was up $36
million.  Engines volume was up $458 million, as growth in developing
economies more than offset significant weakness in developed
economies.  Price realization improved $308
million.  Financial Products revenues increased $19
million.  Currency had a negative impact on sales of $303 million due
to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most major
currencies. 

Machinery
Sales  

Sales $7.675 billion
increased $215 million, or 3 percent, from fourth quarter 2007. 

Sales volume
      increased $36 million, with the gain occurring in the developing economies
      of Africa/Middle East, CIS, Asia/Pacific and Latin
  America. 

Price
      realization increased $85 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $167 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $14 million
      favorable. 

Dealers in all
      regions reported higher inventories than year-end 2007 in both dollars and
      months of supply. 

The financial
      crisis intensified after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in mid
      September.  Recessions in the developed countries worsened, and
      growth in the developing economies slowed abruptly.  As a
      result, dealers reported lower deliveries to end users than a year
      earlier. 

The U.S.
      economy probably declined at the fastest rate in more than 25
      years.  Construction, nonmetals mining and quarrying weakened
      further.  Coal mining and oil sands development were about the
      only positives for North America. 

The European
      economy declined, putting additional downward pressure on
      construction. 

Sales volume
      increased in the developing regions of Africa/Middle East, CIS,
      Asia/Pacific and Latin America, although at a slower rate than earlier in
      the year.  Higher interest rates, the credit crisis, lower
      commodity prices and reduced exports to developed countries were the major
      factors causing this slowing. 

North America    Sales
decreased $279 million, or 9 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $354 million. 

Price
      realization increased $75 million. 

Page A-70  

Sales volume
      declined in line with lower reported dealer deliveries to end
      users.  Dealers added slightly to inventories, leaving them
      higher than a year earlier in both dollars and months of
      supply. 

The U.S.
      economy was in recession and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers caused a
      severe tightening in financial markets.  As a result, economic
      output dropped sharply, and key industries reduced machine
      purchases. 

U.S. housing
      starts fell below a 700 thousand unit annual rate, the lowest this cycle,
      and permits for new construction were even lower.  Housing
      starts were depressed by relatively high mortgage interest rates, a
      further tightening in credit, a 10-percent decline in new home prices and
      more than an 11-month supply of unsold new
  homes. 

Orders for
      U.S. nonresidential construction fell 28 percent below a year
      earlier.  Negatives included limited growth in Federal highway
      funding, higher material input costs, and declines in commercial property
      prices.  Banks further tightened credit standards on commercial
      real estate loans in response to rising delinquencies and financial
      stresses. 

Sharp declines
      in construction caused a 13-percent drop in nonmetals mining and quarry
      production. 

Metals mining
      production increased sharply, but much lower metals prices prompted mines
      to reduce machine purchases. 

Coal
      production increased almost 3 percent, benefiting from increased exports
      and much higher coal prices.  Sales of machines used in coal
      mining increased. 

Crude oil
      prices declined, but to levels that were still attractive for
      investment. 

EAME    Sales decreased $309
million, or 13 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $199 million. 

Price
      realization decreased $19 million. 

Currency
      impact decreased sales by $91
million. 

Dealers in all
      regions reported higher inventories than year-end 2007 in both dollars and
      months of supply. 

Preliminary
      data suggest recessions in both the euro-zone and the United Kingdom
      worsened in fourth quarter 2008, and dealers reported sizable declines in
      deliveries. 

Interest rates
      remained relatively high, contributing to weakness in
      construction.  Housing permits in the euro-zone were probably
      down more than 20 percent, and U.K. housing orders plunged more than 50
      percent.  Heavy construction in the euro-zone declined 6
      percent. 

Sales volume
      increased slightly in Africa/Middle East, ending more than 5 years of
      strong year-on-year growth. 

In the CIS,
      sales volume increased, although at a slower rate than earlier in the
      year.  Russia s economy slowed due to higher interest rates, a
      credit crisis and lower oil
revenues. 

In both
      Africa/Middle East and CIS, sales volume in December was lower than a year
      earlier. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$458 million, or 38 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $235 million. 

Price
      realization increased $17 million. 

Currency
      impact decreased sales by $55
million. 

Dealers in all
      regions reported higher inventories than year-end 2007 in both dollars and
      months of supply. 

Recessions in
      developed economies caused export growth to slow or decline for most
      countries.  In addition, several countries had raised interest
      rates, which helped slow economic
growth. 

China s
      economy slowed, which sharply curtailed growth in sales
      volume. 

Higher coal
      prices contributed to sizable sales volume growth in
      Indonesia. 

Mine output
      expanded in Australia as mining employment increased 30
      percent.  Higher production, along with commodity prices that
      were still attractive for investment, led to increased sales
      volume. 

India had
      tightened economic policies to cope with inflation and the economy slowed
      in the fourth quarter.  Sales volume increased slightly, ending
      several years of rapid growth. 

Page A-71  

Latin America    Sales
increased $345 million, or 41 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $368 million. 

Price
      realization decreased $2 million. 

Currency
      impact decreased sales by $21
million. 

Dealers
      reported higher inventories than year-end 2007 in both dollars and months
      of supply. 

The largest
      gain in sales volume occurred in Chile.  Positives were efforts
      to expand mine production and increased
  construction. 

Higher coal
      prices boosted sales volume in
Colombia. 

Although the
      Mexican economy was sluggish, construction and the energy industries
      expanded.  Sales volume increased
  sharply. 

Interest rate
      increases in Brazil caused the economy to slow sharply in the fourth
      quarter, with industrial production declining.  The world steel
      industry reduced production in the last half of 2008, causing Brazil s
      iron ore production to drop 5 percent.  As a result, growth in
      sales volume slowed significantly from rates experienced during the first
      three quarters. 

Engines
Sales  

Sales of $4.445
billion increased $545 million, or 14 percent, from fourth quarter
2007. 

Sales volume
      increased $458 million. 

Price
      realization increased $223 million. 

Currency
      impact decreased sales $136
million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $2 million
      favorable. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories were up, and months of supply were up slightly, supporting
      strong delivery rates. 

North America    Sales
increased $104 million, or 8 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $22 million. 

Price
      realization increased $82 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum engine applications increased 14 percent due to strong demand
      for gas compression, drilling and well service
      applications.  Turbine sales for gas transmission projects were
      down due to timing of customer project schedules.  This was
      partially offset by an increase in turbine-related
    services. 

Sales for
      electric power applications increased 8 percent, driven by increases in
      turbine sales to support power plant
projects. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications increased 3 percent, when compared with a
      very weak fourth quarter 2007 in the North American on-highway heavy-duty
      truck market.  Demand remained below historic norms due to the
      slow U.S. economy that resulted in a reduction in freight
      tonnage.  Also, the impact of the decision to exit the
      on-highway truck business was starting to be felt as OEM customers reduced
      their reliance on Caterpillar
products. 

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 3 percent due to substantially lower
      demand in construction, material handling and auxiliary power
      units. 

EAME    Sales increased $53
million, or 3 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $85 million. 

Price
      realization increased $72 million. 

Currency
      impact decreased sales by $104
million. 

Page A-72  

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 16 percent, as demand in the
      construction segments slowed with reduced spending on infrastructure
      development.  This was partially offset by increases in
      agricultural applications. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 27 percent in workboats and commercial
      vessels to support projects that were driven by high commodity
      prices. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 16 percent based on strong demand for
      engines used in drilling and production.  Turbine sales
      increased for gas transmission and oil and gas production
      applications. 

Sales for
      electric power applications increased 6 percent, with strong demand in
      Africa/Middle East offsetting weaker demand in Europe and the CIS and a
      decrease in turbine sales, which were the result of timing of large power
      plant projects. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$195 million, or 30 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $170 million. 

Price
      realization increased $57 million. 

Currency
      impact decreased sales by $32
million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 79 percent to support Chinese drill rig
      activity and increased demand for Asian shipyards in support of offshore
      drilling. Turbine sales increased for gas transmission and oil and gas
      production applications. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 34 percent, with continued strong demand for
      workboat, offshore and general cargo
vessels. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 39 percent, as a result of higher sales
      into mining and irrigation sectors in Australia and increased sales in New
      Zealand. 

Sales of
      electric power engines decreased 2
percent. 

Latin America    Sales
increased $193 million, or 55 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $183 million. 

Price
      realization increased $10 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 60 percent as turbines and
      turbine-related services increased for gas transmission and oil and gas
      production applications. 

Sales of
      electric power engines increased 82 percent to support infrastructure
      investment. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications decreased 42 percent as a result of OEM
      customers working down inventory and a loss of OEM
    business. 

Financial Products
Revenues  

Revenues of $803
million increased $19 million, or 2 percent, from the fourth quarter
2007. 

Growth in
      average earning assets increased revenues $56 million, which was partially
      offset by a decrease of $46 million due to lower interest rates on new and
      existing finance receivables. 

Revenues from
      earned premiums at Cat Insurance increased $24
  million. 

Page A-73  

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The chart above graphically
      illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit
      between fourth quarter 2007 (at left) and fourth quarter 2008 (at
      right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit appear as
      upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar,
      while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair
      steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each
      bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company s Board of Directors and
      employees.  The bar entitled Other includes the operating profit
      impact of consolidating adjustments, consolidation of Cat Japan and
      Machinery and Engines other operating expenses.  

Operating profit in
fourth quarter 2008 of $457 million was $798 million lower than fourth quarter
2007 as improved price realization and higher sales volume were more than offset
by higher costs. 

Manufacturing costs
increased $938 million compared with fourth quarter 2007.  The
increase was driven by higher material and freight costs, along with
manufacturing inefficiencies as costs did not drop in line with a sharp decline
in production volume. 

SG A and R D
costs were up $279 million to support significant new product programs and
growth initiatives. 

Financial Products
operating profit decreased $87 million. 

Machinery
        operating loss was $6
      million compared to an operating profit of $619 million in the fourth
      quarter of 2007.  Substantially all of the change was the result
      of higher manufacturing
costs.  

Engines   operating profit of $438 million
      was down $133 million, or 23 percent, from fourth quarter
      2007.  Higher costs were partially offset by improved price
      realization and higher sales
volume.  

Page A-74  

Financial Products
       operating profit of $74 million was down $87 million, or 54
      percent, from fourth quarter 2007.  The decrease was primarily
      attributable to a $57 million impact from decreased net yield on average
      earning assets and a $42 million increase in the provision for credit
      losses at Cat Financial, partially offset by a $22 million favorable
      impact from higher average earning
assets. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Other income/expense  was
      expense of $26 million compared with income of $88 million in fourth
      quarter 2007.  The decrease was primarily due to a $47 million
      unfavorable change in mark-to-market adjustments on interest rate
      derivative contracts at Cat Financial and a $37 million impairment of
      investments in Cat Insurance s portfolio as a result of poor market
      performance 

The
      provision for income taxes   in
      the fourth quarter of 2008 reflects an annual tax rate of 31.5 percent,
      excluding the discrete item discussed below, compared to a 30-percent rate
      in 2007.  The increase in the tax rate excluding discrete items
      over 2007 is primarily attributable to a less favorable geographic mix of
      profits from a tax perspective.  Although we expected to lower
      our annual tax rate by approximately one percentage point in the fourth
      quarter due to the renewal of the U.S. research and development tax credit
      in October 2008, this benefit was offset by less favorable fourth quarter
      geographic mix of profits from a tax perspective resulting in no change in
      the estimated tax rate from third quarter 2008.   

The provision for income taxes in the fourth quarter of 2008 also
      includes a discrete benefit of $409 million related to repatriation of
      non-U.S. earnings with available foreign tax credits in excess of the U.S.
      tax liability on the dividend.  This compares to a favorable
      adjustment of $55 million in the fourth quarter 2007 related to a decrease
      in the estimated tax rate. 

Equity in
      profit/(loss) of unconsolidated affiliated companies   was income of $5 million compared
      with income of $22 million in fourth quarter 2007.  The decline
      reflects the absence of profit at Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM)
      due to the redemption, on August 1, 2008, of one-half of Mitsubishi Heavy
      Industries Ltd. s (MHI s) shares in
SCM.  

2007
COMPARED WITH 2006   

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The chart above graphically
      illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales and Revenues
      between 2006 (at left) and 2007 (at right).  Items favorably
      impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with the
      corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively
      impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar
      amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  The bar
      entitled Machinery Volume includes the change in Progress Rail
      sales.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally
      to visually communicate with the company s Board of Directors and
      employees.  

Page A-75  

Sales and revenues
for 2007 were $44.958 billion, up $3.441 billion, or 8 percent, from
2006.  2007 machinery sales were up 9 percent as strong growth outside
North America and a full year of Progress Rail more than offset a weak U.S.
construction market. Machinery volume was up $1.289
billion.  Excluding Progress Rail, machinery volume was up $514
million.  Although sales volume increased moderately, the geographic
shift in sales was significant.  North American machinery sales were
down 11 percent; machinery sales outside of North America were up 33
percent. 

Engines sales
increased 6 percent despite the 59 percent decline in North American on-highway
truck engines. Sales volume was down slightly as growth in engines sales to
industries like oil and gas, electric power, industrial and marine nearly offset
the volume decline in on-highway truck engines. 

In addition, price
realization was more than 2 percent despite an unfavorable geographic
mix.  Currency had a positive impact on sales of $890 million driven
primarily by the stronger euro.  Financial Products revenues were up
13 percent. 

Machinery s  ales  of $28.359 billion were
an increase of $2.297 billion, or 9 percent, from 2006. Excluding Progress Rail,
machinery volume increased $514 million.  Sales volume decreased in
North America but increased in all other regions. Price realization increased
$410 million. Currency benefited sales by $598 million. Geographic mix between
regions (included in price realization) was $182 million unfavorable. The
acquisition of Progress Rail added $775 million. North American dealers reduced
reported inventories substantially in 2007, taking them well below a year
earlier in months of supply.  Inventories in months of supply declined
in most other regions as well.  Economic factors, primarily in the
United States, contributed to lower sales volume in North
America.  These factors included the collapse in housing construction,
weakness in nonresidential construction contracts in the last half of 2007 and a
decline in quarry and aggregate production.  Sales volume increased in
the rest of the world, offsetting weakness in North
America.  Positives included relatively low interest rates, good
economic growth and continued growth in construction.  Metals mining
was positive in many countries throughout the world.  Metals prices
increased, and mining companies increased exploration spending by more than 40
percent.  Oil prices increased about 10 percent, and natural gas
prices increased 4 percent.  Production and drilling increased in many
regions, and pipeline construction increased.  Transportation
problems, particularly in Australia, contributed to a significant increase in
international coal prices.  The impact on sales volume varied negative
for Australia and the United States but positive elsewhere. 

Page A-76  

North America  sales
      decreased $1,619 million, or 11 percent.  Sales volume excluding
      Progress Rail decreased $2,540 million.  Price realization
      increased $146 million.  Progress Rail increased sales $775
      million.  Dealers reduced their reported inventories by
      about  $1.1 billion in 2007 compared to a $300 million increase
      in 2006.  Dealer inventories at the end of the year were well
      below a year earlier in both dollars and months of supply.  An
      unfavorable economic environment caused output to decline in many key
      industries in the United States, prompting users to curtail fleet
      expansions.  In addition, dealers added fewer units to their
      rental fleets and let existing fleets age.  Output prices for
      some industries, such as housing and coal mining, softened. Reduced
      profitability and tighter credit likely caused some users to delay
      replacement purchases.  The housing industry weakened throughout
      the year, with starts down 26 percent in 2007.  Tighter lending
      standards, a large number of unsold homes and a sharp drop in home sales
      caused builders to reduce construction.  Nonresidential
      construction spending increased 18 percent, however, contracts awarded for
      new construction declined about 2 percent.  Employment in
      nonresidential construction also weakened in the last half of the
      year.  Factors that contributed to this weakening included
      tighter standards for commercial and industrial loans, higher corporate
      bond spreads and a decline in business cash flows.  Spot coal
      prices declined leading to a 3 percent decline in coal
      production.  Electric utilities reduced coal usage, and
      stockpiles increased.  More positively, coal exports rebounded
      more than 15 percent as a result of U.S. prices falling well below
      international prices.  Metals mining, oil sands and pipeline
      construction remained positive.  Average metals prices increased
      more than 40 percent, and mines in both Canada and the United States
      increased production.  Canada increased crude oil production 7
      percent.  Shipments of line pipe in the United States increased
      14 percent. 

EAME  sales increased
      $2,365 million, or 38 percent.  Sales volume increased $1,729
      million.  Price realization increased $202
      million.  Currency benefited sales by $434
      million.  Dealers reported significant increases in demand and
      increased inventories to support that stronger demand a positive for sales
      volume.  Dealer inventories in months of supply ended the year
      slightly higher than a year earlier.  Sales volume increased in
      Europe in response to positive economic growth and large gains in both
      nonresidential building and infrastructure construction.  These
      sectors benefited from increased business profits, a 13 percent increase
      in business borrowing and higher government capital
      expenditures.  However, housing permits declined 8 percent due
      to higher lending rates for home purchases and some moderation in home
      prices.  Africa/Middle East turned in another year of very
      positive volume growth.  Interest rates changed little over the
      past year, and most stock markets boomed.  Exports increased
      significantly, allowing the region to increase its foreign exchange
      holdings 22 percent.  Higher oil prices encouraged increased
      drilling in both Africa and the Middle East, and both Turkey and South
      Africa experienced more than 10 percent growth in
      construction.  Sales volume in the Commonwealth of Independent
      States (CIS) increased rapidly for the seventh consecutive year, with
      large gains occurring in Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan.  All
      three governments increased spending more than 20 percent, and monetary
      policies were extremely expansive.  Regional oil production
      increased more than 4 percent, and Russia increased construction 23
      percent. 

Latin America  sales
      increased $605 million, or 24 percent.  Sales volume increased
      $466 million.  Price realization increased $87
      million.  Currency benefited sales by $52
      million.  Dealers reported much higher demand and built
      inventory to support that demand.  Reported inventories
      increased in dollars but declined in months of supply.  Sales
      volume increased significantly in Brazil, the result of a 200 basis point
      reduction in interest rates and an improvement in economic
      growth.  Better economic growth contributed to an increase of
      about 4 percent in construction spending, and higher metals prices led to
      a 4 percent increase in mine production.  Most other countries
      raised interest rates slightly, and economic growth was near 5
      percent.  As a result, construction increased 9 percent in
      Chile, 12 percent in both Colombia and Venezuela and 16 percent in
      Peru.  Mines increased exploration spending 38 percent in
      response to higher metals prices and increased production. Higher oil
      prices and declining production caused increased drilling, a positive for
      sales volume. 

Asia/Pacific  sales
      increased $946 million, or 31 percent.  Sales volume increased
      $677 million.  Price realization increased $157
      million.  Currency benefited sales by $112
      million.  Dealers reported higher demand for machines and
      inventories declined.  As a result, inventories in months of
      supply were well below those at the end of 2006. Central banks kept
      interest rates low, and many governments increased
      spending.  These developments produced more than 8 percent
      economic growth, and stock markets boomed.  Construction
      increased more than 20 percent in China, 11 percent in India and 9 percent
      in Australia.  Australian thermal coal spot prices increased 30
      percent due to continued strong demand and supply
      problems.  Increased coal production and prices contributed to a
      substantial sales gain in Indonesia.  China increased coal
      production 12 percent.  Higher metals prices and a 56 percent
      increase in mine exploration spending benefited sales volume
      growth.  Mine production increased almost 11 percent in
      Indonesia, 6 percent in India and 5 percent in
  Australia. 

Page A-77  

Engines Sales  of $13.603
billion were an increase of $796 million, or 6 percent, from
2006.  Sales volume decreased $18 million.  Price
realization increased $522 million.  Currency benefited sales $292
million.  Geographic mix between regions (included in price
realization) was $29 million favorable.  Dealer reported inventories
in dollars were up; months of supply were down as the inventories were supported
by strong delivery rates. 

North America  sales
      decreased $848 million, or 14 percent.  Sales volume decreased
      $1.037 billion.  Price realization increased $189
      million.  Sales for on-highway truck applications declined 59
      percent with less than anticipated demand for the 2007 model-year
      engines.  This was due to the reduction in tonnage hauled and
      freight rates realized by on-highway carriers.  This has also
      been impacted by the transition of several Original Equipment
      Manufacturers (OEMs) to the 2007 emissions technology
      engines.  Sales for petroleum applications increased 39 percent
      due to strong demand in gas compression and exploration, along with
      success from gas pipeline and storage construction
      projects.  The increase in turbines and turbine-related services
      reflects additional customer spending for natural gas pipelines and
      compression equipment.  Sales for electric power applications
      increased 22 percent as demand for large generator sets increased to
      support data center installations, which offset a slight decline in
      smaller units. 

EAME  sales increased
      $1.181 billion, or 29 percent.  Sales volume increased $756
      million.  Price realization increased $186
      million.  Currency benefited sales by $239
      million.  Sales for electric power applications increased 29
      percent, with strong demand for gas units in Russia, expanded scope of
      project business and growth in power modules.  Turbines and
      turbine-related services increased to support power
      generation.  Sales for petroleum applications increased 42
      percent based on widespread demand for engines used in drilling and
      production applications.  Turbines and turbine-related services
      increased to support rising oil production and gas transmission
      demand.  Sales for industrial applications increased 20 percent,
      with widespread demand for agriculture and other types of OEM equipment
      driven by good economic conditions.  Sales for marine
      applications increased 30 percent, with increased demand for workboats,
      commercial oceangoing vessels and cruise
ships. 

Latin America  sales
      increased $28 million, or 3 percent.  Sales volume decreased $5
      million.  Price realization increased $32
      million.  Currency benefited sales by $1
      million.  Sales for electric power engines increased 35 percent
      from strong growth across Latin America, driven by high oil and gas prices
      and investment in infrastructure as energy shortages continued in several
      key markets.  Sales into truck applications declined 44 percent
      with reduced demand.  Latin American truck facilities decreased
      exports of trucks destined for the United
  States. 

Asia/Pacific  sales
      increased $435 million, or 26 percent.  Sales volume increased
      $297 million.  Price realization increased $86
      million.  Currency benefited sales by $52
      million.  Sales for petroleum applications increased 34 percent
      as Chinese drill rig builders continue to manufacture at record levels for
      domestic and export use.  Turbines and turbine-related services
      increased to support oil production and gas pipeline compression
      demand.  Sales for marine applications increased 47 percent,
      with continued strong demand for workboat and offshore
      shipbuilding.  Large diesel demand grew in the offshore and
      general cargo applications.  Sales of electric power engines
      increased 6 percent due to shipments of larger generator sets into
      Asia. 

Financial Products Revenues  of
$2.996 billion were an increase of $348 million, or 13 percent, from
2006.  Growth in average earning assets increased revenues $234
million.  Revenues from earned premiums at Cat Insurance increased $64
million.  The impact of higher interest rates on new and existing
finance receivables added $58 million. 

Page A-78  

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The chart above graphically
      illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated   Operating Profit   between 2006 (at left) and 2007
      (at right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit appear
      as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each
      bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward
      stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each
      bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company s Board of Directors and
      employees.  The bar entitled   Consolidating Adjustments/M E
      Other Operating Expense   includes the operating profit
      impact of Progress Rail.  

Operating profit in 2007 of $4.921
billion was equal to 2006 as higher price realization and sales volume were
offset by higher   core
operating costs  .  

Core operating costs rose $1.232 billion
from 2006. Of this increase, $1.225 billion was attributable to higher
  manufacturing
costs  .  The
increase in manufacturing costs was primarily due to operating inefficiencies
and higher material costs. Operating inefficiencies were the result of supply
chain challenges, capacity increases, factory repair and maintenance and a
significant decline in on-highway truck engine production.  Also, we
incurred additional costs for new product introductions and costs to enhance
customer-delivered quality.  Wage and benefit increases as well as
increased warranty and depreciation also contributed to higher manufacturing
costs.  In 2007, Selling, General and Administrative (SG A) and
R D expenses were essentially flat with 2006.  The impact of
higher wage and benefit costs was offset by the absence of approximately $70
million of 2006 expense related to a settlement of various legal disputes with
Navistar.  

Currency had a $73 million unfavorable
impact on operating profit as the benefit to sales was more than offset by the
negative impact on costs.  

Machinery
  operating profit of $2.758
billion was down $269 million, or 9 percent, from 2006.  Higher core
operating costs were partially offset by improved price realization, higher
sales volume and the addition of Progress Rail.  The geographic mix of
sales had an unfavorable impact on price realization.  

Page A-79  

Engines   operating profit of $1.826 billion was
up $196 million, or 12 percent, from 2006.  The favorable impacts of
improved price realization and positive mix of product were partially offset by
higher core operating costs and the unfavorable impacts of
currency.  Growth in demand for electric power, petroleum, marine and
industrial applications more than offset the profit decline related to the drop
in demand for on-highway truck engines.  

Financial Products  operating
profit of $690 million was up $20 million, or 3 percent, from
2006.  The increase was primarily attributable to a $42 million impact
from improved net yield on average earning assets and a $34 million impact from
higher average earning assets, partially offset by a $29 million increase in the
provision for credit losses at Cat Financial and a $24 million decrease in
operating profit at Cat Insurance due to higher claims experience. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Other income/expense  was
income of $320 million compared with income of $214 million in
2006.  The change was primarily driven by a $46 million gain on the
sale of a cost-basis investment, the favorable impacts of currency and other
items that were individually insignificant. 

The provision for income taxes 
for 2007 reflects an annual tax rate of 30 percent compared to a 29 percent rate
in 2006.  The increase over 2006 is primarily due to the repeal of
Extraterritorial Income Exclusion benefits in 2007 partially offset by a
more favorable geographic mix of profits from a tax
perspective.  

Employee Separation
Charges  

During 2008, we
recognized employee separation charges of $30 million in Other operating
expenses related to various voluntary and involuntary separation
programs.  These programs, impacting approximately 3,000 production
and support and management employees world-wide, are in response to a sharp
decline in sales volume due to the current global recession.  Our
accounting for separations is dependent upon how the particular program is
designed.  For voluntary programs, eligible separation costs are
recognized at the time of employee acceptance.  For involuntary
programs, eligible costs are recognized when management has approved the
program, the affected employees have been properly identified and the costs are
estimable. 

The separation
charges, which will be made up primarily of cash severance payments, were not
assigned to operating segments and are included in the reconciliation of total
accountable profit from business segments to total profit before
taxes.  The following table summarizes the separation charges by
geographic region: 

As
of December 31, 2008, approximately 1,600 employees had separated, with the
remaining separations expected by the end of first quarter 2009.  The
majority of the remaining costs will be paid by the end of the first quarter
2009. 

Subsequent
Events  

Employee
Separation Programs 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In
response to the expected sharp decline in 2009 sales volume, Caterpillar
implemented the following employee separation programs during 2009: 

U.S.
Voluntary Separation Program   -  During December 2008, we
announced a voluntary separation program for certain support and management
employees based in the United States.  Eligible employees had until
January 12, 2009 to sign-up for the plan, and generally until January 31, 2009
to make a final decision.  Participating employees will receive
severance pay based on current salary level and years of service.  As
of January 31, 2009, approximately 2,200 employees had accepted the program and
are generally expected to separate from Caterpillar by March 31,
2009.  We are currently estimating the costs associated with this
program. 

Page A-80  

Other U.S.
Separation Programs  
- -  During 2009, we initiated plans to reduce U.S. based production and
support and management positions through a variety of programs.  For
support and management employees, these include involuntary separation
programs.  For production employees, these include both involuntary
and voluntary separation programs.  We are currently estimating the
costs associated with these programs. 

Non-U.S.
Separation Programs -  We have initiated several other separation
programs during 2009.  These programs, designed specific to the laws
and regulations of the individual countries, represent voluntary and involuntary
plans for production and support and management employees.  We are
currently estimating the costs associated with these programs. 

We
will continue to monitor the economic environment and, depending on business
conditions, more voluntary and involuntary workforce reductions may be required
as 2009 unfolds. 

Cat
Financial Debt Issuance 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    On February 12,
2009, Cat Financial issued $350 million of 5.75% notes due in 2012, $1.65
billion of 6.125% notes due in 2014 and $1.0 billion of 7.15% notes due in
2019.  The net proceeds from the issuance will be used to reduce
short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. 

Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi
Ltd. (SCM)  

On August 1, 2008,
SCM completed the first phase of a share redemption plan whereby SCM redeemed
half of MHI s shares in SCM for $464 million.  This resulted in
Caterpillar owning 67 percent of the outstanding shares of SCM and MHI owning
the remaining 33 percent.  As part of the share redemption, SCM was
renamed Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan).  Both Cat Japan and MHI
have options, exercisable after five years, to require the redemption of the
remaining shares owned by MHI, which if exercised, would make Caterpillar the
sole owner of Cat Japan.  The share redemption plan is part of our
comprehensive business strategy for expansion in the emerging markets of Asia
and the Commonwealth of Independent States and will allow Cat Japan s
manufacturing, design and process expertise to be fully leveraged across the
global Caterpillar enterprise. 

The change in
Caterpillar s ownership interest from 50 percent to 67 percent was accounted for
as a business combination.  The $464 million redemption price was
assigned to 17 percent of Cat Japan s assets and liabilities based upon their
respective fair values as of the transaction date.  The revaluation
resulted in an increase in property, plant and equipment of $78 million and an
increase in inventory of $8 million over the book value of these
assets.  Finite-lived intangible assets of $54 million were recognized
and related primarily to customer relationships, intellectual property and trade
names. These intangibles are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a
weighted-average amortization period of approximately 9
years.  Deferred tax liabilities of $57 million were also recognized
as part of the business combination. Goodwill of $206 million, non-deductible
for income tax purposes, represents the excess of the redemption price over the
17 percent of Cat Japan s net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets that
were reported at their fair values. 

Because Cat Japan is
accounted for on a lag, we consolidated Cat Japan s August 1, 2008 financial
position on September 30, 2008.  We began consolidating Cat Japan s
results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2008. Including the amounts
assigned as part of the business combination, the initial consolidation of Cat
Japan s financial position resulted in a net increase in assets of $2,396
million (primarily property, plant and equipment of $1,279 million, inventory of
$640 million, receivables of $612 million, and goodwill and intangibles of $260
million partially offset by a $528 million reduction in investment in
unconsolidated affiliates) and a net increase in liabilities of $2,045 million
(including $1,388 million in debt).  Cat Japan s functional currency
is the Japanese Yen. 

Additionally, the
remaining 33 percent of Cat Japan owned by MHI has been reported as redeemable
noncontrolling interest and classified as mezzanine equity (temporary equity) in
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. On September 30, 2008, the
redeemable noncontrolling interest was reported at its estimated future
redemption value of $464 million with the difference between the $351 million
book value of the 33 percent interest and the redemption value reported as a
$113 million reduction of Profit employed in the business. 

In subsequent
reporting periods, the redeemable noncontrolling interest will continue to be
reported at its estimated redemption value.  Any adjustment to the
redemption value will impact Profit employed in the business, but will not
impact Profit.  If the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling
interest falls below the redemption value, profit available to common
stockholders would be reduced by the difference between the redemption value and
the fair value.  This would result in lower profit in the profit per
common share computation in that period.  Reductions impacting the
profit per common share computation may be partially or fully reversed in
subsequent periods if the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest
increases relative to the redemption value.  Such increases in profit
per common share would be limited to cumulative prior reductions.  As
of December 31, 2008, there has been no change to the estimated future
redemption value, and the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest
has remained greater than the redemption value. 

Page A-81  

With the
consolidation of Cat Japan s results of operations, 33 percent of Cat Japan s
comprehensive income or loss is attributed to the redeemable noncontrolling
interest, impacting its carrying value.  Because the redeemable
noncontrolling interest must be reported at its estimated future redemption
value, the impact from attributing the comprehensive income or loss is offset by
adjusting the carrying value to the redemption value.  This adjustment
impacts Profit employed in the business, but not Profit.  In 2008, we
adjusted the carrying value by $2 million resulting in a corresponding reduction
to Profit employed in the business.  As Cat Japan s functional
currency is the Japanese Yen, changes in exchange rates affect the reported
amount of the redeemable noncontrolling interest.  At December 31,
2008, the redeemable noncontrolling interest was $524 million. 

Cat Japan was
included in the  All Other  category in Note 24.  Assuming this
transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the
consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported
results. 

Progress Rail Services,
Inc.  

In June 2006,
Caterpillar acquired 100 percent of the equity in privately held Progress Rail
Services, Inc. (Progress Rail) for approximately $1 billion, including the
assumption of $200 million in debt. Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail
is a leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products
and services to the North American railroad industry. The company also has one
of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North America. When
acquired, Progress Rail operated more than 90 facilities in 29 states in the
United States, Canada and Mexico, with about 3,700 employees. Expansion into the
railroad aftermarket business is a strong fit with our strategic direction and
will leverage Caterpillar's remanufacturing capabilities. 

The transaction was
financed with available cash and commercial paper borrowings of $427 million and
Caterpillar stock of $379 million (5.3 million shares). Net tangible assets
acquired, recorded at their fair values, primarily were inventories of $257
million, receivables of $169 million and property, plant and equipment of $260
million. Liabilities acquired, recorded at their fair values, primarily
consisted of assumed debt of $200 million, accounts payable of $148 million and
net deferred tax liabilities of $115 million. Finite-lived intangible assets
acquired of $223 million related primarily to customer relationships are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years. Goodwill of $431 million,
non-deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the
fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets acquired. The
results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are
included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and reported in
the  All Other  category in Note 24. Assuming this transaction had been made at
the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would
not be materially different from reported results. 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS   

1.  

Cat Production
      System (CPS)     The
      Cat Production System is the common Order-to-Delivery process being
      implemented enterprise-wide to achieve our safety, quality, velocity,
      earnings and growth goals for 2010 and beyond.  

2. 

Consolidating
      Adjustments    Eliminations of transactions between Machinery and
      Engines and Financial Products. 

3.  

Core Operating
      Costs     For the
      purpose of 2007 vs. 2006 consolidated operating profit comparison, core
      operating costs represent Machinery and Engines variable manufacturing
      cost change (adjusted for volume) and changes in period manufacturing
      costs, SG A expenses and R D expenses.  Excludes the
      impact of currency.  

4.  

Currency     With respect to sales and
      revenues, currency represents the translation impact on sales resulting
      from changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S.
      dollar.  With respect to operating profit, currency represents
      the net translation impact on sales and operating costs resulting from
      changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S.
      dollar.  Currency includes the impacts on sales and operating
      profit for the Machinery and Engines lines of business only; currency
      impacts on Financial Products revenues and operating profit are included
      in the Financial Products portions of the respective
      analyses.  With respect to other income/expense, currency
      represents the effects of forward and option contracts entered into by the
      company to reduce the risk of fluctuations in exchange  rates and
      the net effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our
      foreign currency assets and liabilities for consolidated
      results. 

5.  

Debt-to-Capital
      Ratio           A key measure of financial
      strength used by both management and our credit rating
      agencies.  The metric is a ratio of Machinery and Engines debt
      (short-term borrowings plus long-term debt) and redeemable noncontrolling
      interest to the sum of Machinery and Engines debt, redeemable
      noncontrolling interest, and stockholders' equity.  

6.  

EAME     Geographic region including
      Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States
      (CIS).  

7.  

Earning
      Assets     Assets
      consisting primarily of total finance receivables net of unearned income,
      plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation at Cat
      Financial.  

Page A-82  

8.  

Engines      A principal line of
      business including the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of engines
      for Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation systems; on-highway
      vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum, construction, industrial,
      agricultural and other applications and related parts. Also includes
      remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and a variety of Caterpillar
      machinery and engine components and remanufacturing services for other
      companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power needs ranging from
       10 to 21,700 horsepower (8
      to more than 16 000 kilowatts) .  Turbines range from
      1,600 to 30,000 horsepower (1 200 to 22 000 kilowatts). 

9.  

Financial
      Products     A
      principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc.
      (Cat Insurance), Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation (Cat Power
      Ventures) and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat Financial
      provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and dealers
      for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well as other
      equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also extends loans
      to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides various forms
      of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and
      lease of our equipment.  Cat Power Ventures is an investor in
      independent power projects using Caterpillar power generation equipment
      and services.  

10.  

Integrated
      Service Businesses    
      A service business or a business containing an important service
      component.  These businesses include, but are not limited to,
      aftermarket parts, Cat Financial, Cat Insurance, Progress Rail, Solar
      Turbines Customer Services, Cat Logistics, OEM Solutions and Cat
      Reman.  

11.  

Latin
      America     Geographic
      region including Central and South American countries and
      Mexico.  

12.  

Machinery     A principal line of business
      which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of
      construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel tractors,
      track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products, skid steer loaders and related parts. Also includes logistics
      services for other companies and the design, manufacture, remanufacture,
      maintenance and services of rail-related products.  

13.  

Machinery and
      Engines (M E)       Due to the highly integrated
      nature of operations, it represents the aggregate total of the Machinery
      and Engines lines of business and includes primarily our manufacturing,
      marketing and parts distribution operations.  

14.  

Machinery and
      Engines Other Operating Expenses       Comprised primarily of gains
      (losses) on disposal of long-lived assets, long-lived asset impairment
      charges and employee severance charges.  

15.  

Manufacturing
      Costs     Manufacturing
      costs have been defined differently in the consolidated operating profit
      comparison for periods presented as follows:  

For the purpose of 2008 vs. 2007
      consolidated operating profit comparison, manufacturing costs represent
      the volume-adjusted change for manufacturing
      costs.  Manufacturing costs are defined as material costs and
      labor and overhead costs related to the production
      process.  Excludes the impact of currency.  

For the purpose of 2007 vs. 2006
      consolidated operating profit comparison, manufacturing costs exclude the
      impacts of currency and represent the volume-adjusted change for variable
      costs and the absolute dollar change for period manufacturing
      costs.  Variable manufacturing costs are defined as having a
      direct relationship with the volume of production.  This
      includes material costs, direct labor and other costs that vary directly
      with production volume such as freight, power to operate machines and
      supplies that are consumed in the manufacturing process.  Period
      manufacturing costs support production but are defined as generally not
      having a direct relationship to short-term changes in
      volume.  Examples include machinery and equipment repair,
      depreciation on manufacturing assets, facility support, procurement,
      factory scheduling, manufacturing planning and operations
      management.  

16.  

Price
      Realization     The
      impact of net price changes excluding currency and new product
      introductions.  Consolidated price realization includes the
      impact of changes in the relative weighting of sales between geographic
      regions.  

17.  

Sales
      Volume     With respect
      to sales and revenues, sales volume represents the impact of changes in
      the quantities sold for machinery and engines as well as the incremental
      revenue impact of new product introductions.  With respect to
      operating profit, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the
      quantities sold for machinery and engines combined with product mix the
      net operating profit impact of changes in the relative weighting of
      machinery and engines sales with respect to total
      sales.  

18.  

Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM)     Formerly a 50/50 joint venture
      between Caterpillar and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.
      (MHI).  On August 1, 2008, SCM redeemed one-half of MHI's
      shares.  Caterpillar now owns 67 percent of the renamed entity,
      Caterpillar Japan
Ltd.  

Page A-83  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Sources
of funds 

We generate
significant capital resources from operating activities, which are the primary
source of funding for our Machinery and Engines operations.  Funding
for these businesses is also provided by commercial paper and long-term debt
issuances.  Financial Products operations are funded primarily from
their existing retail portfolio and commercial paper and term debt
issuances.  Despite recent credit market conditions, we have continued
to have access to liquidity in both our Machinery and Engines and Financial
Products operations.  Given global recessionary conditions and sharply
declining sales volume we are executing our strategic  trough 
plans.  Most of our trough actions, as discussed on pages A-101 to
A-102, will result in lower cash needs in 2009. 

Consolidated
operating cash flow for 2008 was $4.79 billion, compared with $7.94 billion in
2007.  The decrease of $3.15 billion is primarily the result of the
absence of a 2007 benefit from reduced terms for North American receivables, a
$497 million increase in taxes paid, and a $453 million increase in
contributions to pension and other postretirement benefit plans.  In
addition, working capital requirements, particularly inventory, increased in
2008, negatively impacting operating cash flow.  See further
discussion of operating cash flow under Machinery and Engines and Financial
Products.   Although we expect profit to decline in 2009 (see
Outlook on pages A-100 to A-102), we expect operating cash flow to benefit from
a significant decline in inventory and receivables. 

Total debt as of
December 31, 2008 was $35.54 billion, an increase of
$7.11 billion from year-end 2007.  Debt related to Machinery and
Engines increased $3.82 billion due to the consolidation of Cat Japan and also
to provide for a higher cash position in the event that short-term credit
markets become disrupted.  Debt related to Financial Products
increased $3.29 billion due to growth in Cat Financial's portfolio and also
to provide for an appropriate cash position given uncertain market
conditions. 

We have three global credit facilities
with a syndicate of banks totaling $6.85 billion (Credit Facility) available in
the aggregate to both Machinery and Engines and Financial Products to support
commercial paper programs in the event the programs become unavailable to
us.  During 2008, based on management s allocation decision, which can
be revised at any time, the portion of the Credit Facility allocated to Cat
Financial was increased from $5.55 billion to $5.85 billion.  The
five-year facility of $1.62 billion expires in September 2012.  The
five-year facility of $2.98 billion expires in September 2011.  The
364-day facility was increased from $1.95 billion to $2.25 billion and will
expire in September 2009.  As part of the 2008 Credit Facility
renewal, Cat Financial s year-end and six-month moving average leverage
covenants have been increased from 8.5:1 to 10:1.  In 2008, Cat
Financial entered into a new 364-day facility of $300 million with a syndicate
of banks, which expires in July 2009.  The overall increase in the
credit facilities was to support Cat Financial s portfolio
growth.  

At December 31,
2008, Caterpillar s annual consolidated net worth dropped below the level
stipulated in the Credit Facility.  This covenant requires Caterpillar
to maintain a consolidated net worth of not less than 75% of the consolidated
net worth as of the end of its immediately preceding fiscal year.  The
decrease was largely driven by a significant decline in pension asset returns,
resulting in a $3.4 billion year-end charge to other comprehensive
income. 

In addition, at
December 31, 2008, Cat Financial s quarterly interest coverage ratio for the
fourth quarter dropped below the level stipulated in the Credit
Facility.  This covenant requires Cat Financial to maintain a ratio of
(1) earnings before interest expense and income taxes to (2) interest expense of
not less than 1.15 to 1 for each fiscal quarter.  The ratio was
negatively impacted in the fourth quarter of 2008 by, among other things,
deteriorating economic conditions.  This, in addition to Caterpillar s
drop in consolidated net worth, also resulted in Cat Financial falling below or
failing to meet similar covenant requirements in other loan
agreements. 

The associated bank
group under the Credit Facility has consented to Caterpillar s lower annual
consolidated net worth of $6.087 billion as of December 31, 2008, and to Cat
Financial s lower quarterly interest coverage ratio of 0.97 as of December 31,
2008.  The bank group also agreed that any failure to comply with
consolidated net worth and interest coverage ratio requirements would not
constitute an actual or potential event of default under the Credit
Facility.  In consideration of these agreements, the upper range of
interest rate applicable to certain amounts that may be drawn by us under the
Credit Facility was increased by approximately 1.00 to 1.50 percentage
points. 

The lenders under
Cat Financial s other loan agreements also have agreed that Caterpillar and Cat
Financial will not be required to comply with the covenant ratios for the fourth
quarter 2008.  In consideration of those agreements, the upper range
of interest rate applicable to certain amounts that may be drawn by us under
those loan agreements were increased by approximately 1.00 percentage
point. 

As
noted above, the actions by the bank group and other lenders only apply to the
fourth quarter of 2008. In the event Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet
one or more of their respective financial covenants under the Credit Facility in
the future (and are unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the bank group may
terminate the commitments allocated to the non-compliant party or the
commitments could be, depending on the circumstances, reallocated among
Caterpillar and/or Cat Financial.  Additionally, in such event,
certain of Cat Financial s other lenders under other loan agreements where such
financial covenants are applicable, may, at their election, choose to pursue
remedies under such loan agreements, including accelerating outstanding
borrowings. At December 31, 2008, there were no borrowings under the Credit
Facility. 

Page A-84  

Our total credit
commitments as of December 31, 2008 were: 

Consolidated credit
lines with banks as of December 31, 2008 total $4.48 billion. These credit
lines, which are eligible for renewal at various future dates or have no
specified expiration date, are used primarily by our subsidiaries for local
funding requirements.  Caterpillar Inc. or Cat Financial generally
guarantees subsidiary borrowings under these lines. 

The generally
deteriorating economic conditions, our 2009 outlook and the condition of credit
markets increase the risk that one or more of the credit rating agencies may
decrease their credit rating for Caterpillar, Cat Financial or their debt
securities.  In the event that Caterpillar or Cat Financial, or any of
their debt securities, experiences a credit rating downgrade it would likely
result in an increase in our borrowing costs and make access to certain credit
markets more difficult. 

If global conditions
deteriorate so significantly that access to debt market becomes unavailable, our
Machinery and Engines operations would rely on cash flow from operations, use of
existing cash balances ($1.52 billion at year-end 2008), borrowings from Cat
Financial and access to our revolving credit facility.  Our Financial
Products operations would rely on cash flow from its existing retail portfolio
of approximately $1 billion per month, utilization of existing cash balances
($1.22 billion at year-end 2008), access to our revolving credit facility and
other credit line facilities held by Cat Financial and potential borrowings from
Caterpillar. 

Machinery
and Engines 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Operating cash flow was $3.56 billion in
2008 compared to $5.45 billion in 2007.  Operating cash flow decreased
primarily due to an increase in taxes paid and higher contributions to pension
and other postretirement benefit plans.  In addition, working capital
requirements, particularly inventory, increased in 2008, negatively impacting
Machinery and Engines operating cash flow.  Net cash used for
investing activities in 2008 was $2.56 billion compared to $1.68 billion in
2007.  The increase was primarily due to higher capital
expenditures.  Net cash used for financing activities in 2008 was $519
million compared with $3.24 billion in 2007.  The change is primarily
the result of a $1.5 billion long-term debt issuance in December 2008 and a
reduction in common stock repurchases.  The long-term debt offering
generated strong investor demand.  Proceeds were used to reduce
short-term borrowings and to provide a cash position appropriate for market
conditions.  We also have strong demand for our commercial paper and
we have benefited from very low commercial paper interest
rates.  

Our priorities for
the use of cash remain unchanged -- a strong financial position that helps
protect our credit rating, capital to support growth, appropriately funded
employee benefit plans, modestly increasing dividends and common stock
repurchases with excess cash. 

Strong
      financial position  
      -  A key measure of Machinery and Engines financial strength used by
      both management and our credit rating agencies is Machinery and Engines 
       debt-to-capital
      ratio .  Debt-to-capital is defined as short-term
      borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, redeemable noncontrolling
      interest and long-term debt due after one year (debt) divided by the sum
      of debt (including redeemable noncontrolling interest) and stockholders 
      equity.  Debt also includes borrowings from Financial
      Products.  The debt-to-capital ratio for Machinery and Engines
      was 57.9 percent at December 31, 2008 compared to 31.2 percent at the end
      of 2007, above our target range of 35 to 45 percent.  A $3.4
      billion after-tax charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income(loss)
      to recognize the change in funded status of our pension and other
      postretirement benefit plans during 2008 increased the debt-to-capital
      ratio 11 percentage points.  The consolidation of Cat Japan
      increased the debt-to-capital ratio about 7 percentage
      points.  Additionally, our higher cash position increased
      short-term debt and added 3 percentage points to the debt-to-capital
      ratio.  In addition to the debt-to-capital ratios, certain
      rating agencies have increased their focus on the extent to which
      Caterpillar and Cat Financial have cash and cash equivalents and unused
      credit lines available to meet short-term debt
      requirements.  Caterpillar and Cat Financial have been taking
      this focus into account when planning for 2009 liquidity
      needs.  This focus may result in higher cash balances and
      corresponding increases in the net cost of funds for Caterpillar Inc. and
      Cat Financial. 

Page A-85  

Capital
      to support growth   -   Capital expenditures during 2008
      were $2.42 billion, an increase of $738 million compared to
      2007.  The expenditures were primarily used to replace and
      upgrade existing production assets, facilitate additional expansion of
      manufacturing capacity and support new product programs.  Cash
      used for investments and acquisitions (net of cash acquired) was $148
      million.  We expect capital expenditures to be about $1.5
      billion in 2009, a decline of about 38 percent from
      2008.  

Appropriately
      funded employee benefit plans   -  The
      funded status of our defined benefit pension plans declined significantly
      in 2008 due to plan asset losses.  As a result, we expect to
      contribute approximately $1 billion to those plans in 2009 versus $422
      million that was contributed in 2008. 

Modestly
      increasing dividends   -
       Dividends paid totaled $953 million for 2008, representing 36 cents
      per share paid in the first and second quarters and 42 cents per share
      paid in the third and fourth quarters.  2008 marks the fifteenth
      consecutive year our annual dividend per share has
      increased.  We anticipate modestly increasing dividends in
      2009. 

Common
      stock repurchases   -
       Pursuant to the February 2007 Board-authorized stock repurchase
      program, which expires on December 31, 2011, 27.3 million shares were
      repurchased at a cost of $1.88 billion during 2008.  Through
      December 2008, $3.8 billion of the $7.5 billion authorized has been
      spent.  Basic shares outstanding as of December 31, 2008 were
      601.5 million.  As a result of current economic conditions, we
      have temporarily put our stock repurchase program on
  hold. 

Financial
Products 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Financial Products
2008 operating cash flow of $1.10 billion was about the same as
2007.  Net cash used for investing activities in 2008 was $3.75
billion compared to $1.24 billion in 2007.  This increased use of cash
was primarily due to the growth in finance receivables and the absence of higher
collections in 2007 related to reduced terms for trade receivables purchased by
Cat Financial.  Net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 was
$3.62 billion compared with $190 million in 2007, primarily due to increased
funding requirements related to the increased portfolio growth, as well as to
provide cash position appropriate for market conditions. 

The allowance for
credit losses was 1.44 percent of finance receivables, net of unearned
income, at December 31, 2008, compared to 1.39 percent at
December 31, 2007.  Receivables written off due to
uncollectibility, net of recoveries on receivables previously written off, were
$121 million and $68 million for 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  The increase in write-offs is attributable to economic
conditions primarily in North America.   From a historical perspective, total
write-offs, net of recoveries, for the last U.S. recessionary period in 2002
were 0.69 percent of our average retail portfolio compared to the year-to-date
rate of 0.48 percent.  Consistent with our economic outlook and
expected further weakening of the global economy, we expect past dues and
write-offs will likely be higher in 2009 compared with 2008.  

At the end of 2008,
Cat Financial's allowance for credit losses totaled $395 million, an increase of
$42 million from the end of 2007. Of the increase, $28 million is attributable
to growth in the retail finance receivable portfolio, while $14 million resulted
from increasing the allowance rate from 1.39 percent to 1.44 percent of net
finance receivables 

Despite recent credit market conditions,
Cat Financial continued to have access to liquidity, although at increased
credit spreads on new term debt issuance.  Cat Financial was able to
issue commercial paper throughout the year.  U.S. commercial paper
issuance experienced consistent demand and attractive pricing although maturity
conditions fluctuated as the year drew to a close.  Throughout the
year, demand and liquidity varied in non-U.S. markets and certain non-U.S.
credit markets were periodically closed to Cat Financial and similarly situated
issuers as a result of the volatile credit market conditions in 2008,
particularly in the second half of the year.  Cat Financial s access
to these non-U.S. markets has improved as credit market conditions have
improved.  As the global liquidity situation evolves, Cat Financial
will continue to monitor and adapt their funding approach
accordingly.  As mentioned above,   certain rating agencies have increased
their focus on the extent to which Caterpillar and Cat Financial have cash and
cash equivalents and unused credit lines available to meet short-term debt
requirements.  Caterpillar and Cat Financial have been taking this
focus into account when planning for 2009 liquidity needs.  This focus
may result in higher cash balances and corresponding increases in the net cost
of funds.  

Financial Products
total borrowings were $27.71 billion at December 31, 2008, an increase
of $3.29 billion from December 31, 2007.  Debt repayment in
Financial Products depends primarily on timely repayment and collectibility of
the receivables portfolio.  At December 31, 2008, finance
receivables past due over 30 days were 3.88 percent, compared with
2.36 percent at December 31, 2007.  This increase began
with the downturn in the U.S.  economy and has spread to other
geographic locations.  

Page A-86  

To maintain an
alternative funding source, Cat Financial periodically (generally once a year)
sells certain finance receivables relating to retail installment sale contracts
and finance leases.  In each of these transactions, the applicable
finance receivables are sold to a special purpose entity (SPE).  The
SPEs have limited purposes and generally are only permitted to purchase the
finance receivables, issue asset-backed securities and make payments on the
securities.  The SPEs only issue a single series of securities and
generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid in
full.  The SPEs, typically trusts, are considered to be qualifying
special-purpose entities (QSPEs) and thus, in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 140 (SFAS 140),  "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities,"  are not
consolidated.  The QSPEs issue debt to pay for the finance receivables
they acquire from Cat Financial.  The primary source for repayment of
the debt is the cash flows generated from the finance receivables owned by the
QSPEs.  The assets of the QSPEs are legally isolated and are not
available to pay the creditors of Cat Financial or any other affiliate of Cat
Financial.  The QSPEs held total assets of $909 million related to
these securitizations as of December 31, 2008.  We use QSPEs in a
manner consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry to
isolate these finance receivables, which are secured by new and used equipment,
for the benefit of securitization investors. 

The use of the QSPEs
enables us to access the U.S. securitization market for the sale of these types
of financial assets.  The amounts of funding from securitizations
reflect such factors as capital market accessibility, relative costs of funding
sources and assets available for securitization.  Cat Financial had
cash proceeds from initial sales of these receivables of $600 million and $650
million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and recognized a pre-tax gain of $12
million and $4 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The fair
value of the retained interests in all securitizations of retail finance
receivables outstanding, totaling $52 million and $49 million as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively, are included in Other assets.  Our  sensitivity analysis indicated that the
impact of a 20 percent adverse change in individual assumptions used to
calculate the fair value of all our retained interests as of December 31, 2008,
would be $8 million or less.  

Contractual
obligations 

Page A-87  

We adopted FIN 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  as of January 1,
2007.  The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for
uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting only the timing of tax
benefits, was $803 million at December 31, 2008.  Payment of these
obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. Due to the
difficulty in determining the timing of settlements, FIN 48 obligations are not
included in the table above.  We do not expect a significant tax
payment related to these obligations within the next year. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported
amounts. The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased
assets, fair market values for goodwill impairment tests, warranty liability,
stock-based compensation, reserves for product liability and insurance losses,
postretirement benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes. We
have incorporated many years of data into the determination of each of these
estimates and we have not historically experienced significant adjustments.
These assumptions are reviewed at least annually with the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors. Following are the methods and assumptions used in
determining our estimates and an indication of the risks inherent in
each. 

Residual values for leased assets
   The residual values for Cat Financial s leased assets, which are based
upon the estimated wholesale market value of leased equipment at the time of the
expiration of the lease, represent a careful analysis of historical wholesale
market sales prices, projected forward on a level trend line without
consideration for inflation or possible future pricing action.  At the
inception of the lease, residual values are derived from consideration of the
following critical factors: market size and demand, any known significant
market/product trends, total expected hours of usage, machine configuration,
application, location, model changes, quantities and past re-marketing
experience, third party residual guarantees and contractual customer purchase
options.  During the term of the leases, residual amounts are
monitored.  If estimated market values reflect a non-temporary
impairment due to economic factors, obsolescence or other adverse circumstances,
the residuals are adjusted to the lower estimated values by a charge to
earnings.  For equipment on operating leases, the charge is recognized
through depreciation expense.  For finance leases, it is recognized
through a reduction of finance revenue. 

Fair values for goodwill impairment
tests    We test goodwill for impairment annually, at the reporting unit
level, and whenever events or circumstances make it likely that an impairment
may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate
or a decision to sell all or a portion of a reporting unit.  We
perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for
interim triggering events on an ongoing basis. 

Determining whether
an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective reporting unit,
which we estimate using a discounted five year forecasted cash flow with a
year-five residual value based upon a comparative market Earnings Before
Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) multiple.  The
assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on each reporting
unit s long-term forecast and are subject to review and approval of our senior
management. The market EBITDA multiple is based on market transactions in the
reporting unit s industry. The discount rate is based on our weighted average
cost of capital, which we believe approximates the rate from a market
participant s perspective. The estimated fair value could be impacted by changes
in interest rates, growth rates, costs, pricing, capital expenditures and market
conditions. 

The 2008 annual
impairment test indicated the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded
its respective carrying value, including goodwill. In the fourth quarter of
2008, economic and market conditions deteriorated, affecting the outlook of our
various businesses.  Although our businesses have been impacted by the
economic downturn, Caterpillar s market capitalization has remained
significantly above its book value and an evaluation of our reporting units
indicated that it was unlikely the fair value of any reporting unit fell below
its carrying value.  Accordingly, we did not perform an interim
goodwill impairment test subsequent to the annual impairment test. 

A prolonged economic
downturn resulting in lower EBITDA multiples, lower long-term growth rates and
reduced long-term profitability may reduce the fair value of our reporting
units. Industry specific events or circumstances that have a negative impact to
the valuation assumptions may also reduce the fair value of our reporting
units.  Should such events occur and it becomes more likely than not
that a reporting unit s fair value has fallen below its carrying value, we will
perform an interim goodwill impairment test(s), in addition to the annual
impairment test.  Future impairment tests may result in a goodwill
impairment, depending on the outcome of both step one and step two of the
impairment review process.  A goodwill impairment would be reported as
a non-cash charge to earnings. 

Impairment of available-for-sale
securities    Available-for-sale securities, primarily at Cat
Insurance, are reviewed at least quarterly to identify fair values below cost
which may indicate that a security is impaired and should be written down to
fair value. 

Page A-88

For debt securities,
once a security s fair value is below cost we utilize data gathered by
investment managers, external sources and internal research to monitor the
performance of the security to determine whether an other-than-temporary
impairment has occurred.  These reviews consist of both quantitative
and qualitative analysis and require a degree of management
judgment.  Securities in a loss position are monitored and assessed at
least quarterly based on severity of loss and may be deemed
other-than-temporarily impaired at any time.  Once a security s fair
value has been twenty percent or more below its original cost for six
consecutive months, the security will be other-than-temporarily impaired unless
there are sufficient facts and circumstances supporting otherwise. 

For equity
securities in a loss position, determining whether the security is
other-than-temporarily impaired requires an analysis of the securities 
historical sector returns and volatility. This information is utilized to
estimate the security s future fair value to assess whether the security has the
ability to recover to its original cost over a reasonable period of time as
follows: 

Historical
      annualized sector returns over a two-year period are analyzed to estimate
      the securities  fair value over the next two years. 

The volatility
      factor for the security is applied to the sector historical returns to
      further estimate the fair value of the security over the next two
      years. 

In the event the
estimated future fair value is less than the original cost, qualitative factors
are then considered in determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily
impaired, which includes reviews of the following:  significant
changes in the regulatory, economic or technological environment of the
investee, significant changes in the general market condition of either the
geographic area or the industry in which the investee operates, and length of
time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than
cost.  These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree
of management judgment. 

Warranty liability    At the
time a sale is recognized, we record estimated future warranty
costs.  The warranty liability is determined by applying historical
claim rate experience to the current field population and dealer
inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on actual
warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine
size.  Specific rates are developed for each product build month and
are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim
experience.  Warranty costs may differ from those estimated if actual
claim rates are higher or lower than our historical rates. 

Stock-based compensation    We
use a lattice-based option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of our
stock option and SARs.  The calculation of the fair value of the
awards using the lattice-based option-pricing model is affected by our stock
price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding the
following: 

Volatility is
      a measure of the amount by which the stock price is expected to fluctuate
      each year during the expected life of the award and is based on historical
      and current implied volatilities from traded options on Caterpillar stock.
      The implied volatilities from traded options are impacted by changes in
      market conditions.  An increase in the volatility would result
      in an increase in our expense. 

The expected
      term represents the period of time that awards granted are expected to be
      outstanding and is an output of the lattice-based option-pricing model. In
      determining the expected term of the award, future exercise and forfeiture
      patterns are estimated from Caterpillar employee historical exercise
      behavior.  These patterns are also affected by the vesting
      conditions of the award.  Changes in the future exercise
      behavior of employees or in the vesting period of the award could result
      in a change in the expected term.  An increase in the expected
      term would result in an increase to our expense. 

The
      weighted-average dividend yield is based on Caterpillar's historical
      dividend yields.  As holders of stock-based awards do not
      receive dividend payments, this could result in employees retaining the
      award for a longer period of time if dividend yields decrease or
      exercising the award sooner if dividend yields increase.  A
      decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our
      expense. 

The risk-free
      interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at time
      of grant.  As the risk-free interest rate increases, the
      expected term increases, resulting in an increase in our
      expense. 

The fair value of
our RSUs is determined by reducing the stock price on the date of grant by the
present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting period.
The estimated dividends are based on Caterpillar s weighted-average dividend
yields. A decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our
expense. 

Stock-based
compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the
number of awards that are expected to vest.  In determining the
stock-based compensation expense to be recognized, a forfeiture rate is applied
to the fair value of the award.  This rate represents the number of
awards that are expected to be forfeited prior to vesting and is based on
Caterpillar employee historical behavior.  Changes in the future
behavior of employees could impact this rate.  A decrease in this rate
would result in an increase in our expense. 

Page A-89  

Product liability and insurance loss
reserve    We determine these reserves based upon reported claims in
process of settlement and actuarial estimates for losses incurred but not
reported. Loss reserves, including incurred but not reported reserves, are based
on estimates and ultimate settlements may vary significantly from such estimates
due to increased claims frequency or severity over historical
levels. 

Postretirement benefits   
Primary actuarial assumptions were determined as follows: 

The U.S.
      expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate
      of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities
      weighted by the allocation of our plan assets. Based on historical
      performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management
      of the plan assets. A similar process is used to determine the rate for
      our non-U.S. pension plans. This rate is impacted by changes in general
      market conditions, but because it represents a long-term rate, it is not
      significantly impacted by short-term market swings. Changes in our
      allocation of plan assets would also impact this rate. For example, a
      shift to more fixed income securities would lower the rate. A decrease in
      the rate would increase our
expense. 

The assumed
      discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to
      today's dollars.  For 2008, the U.S. discount rate is based on a
      benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our
      benefit obligations could effectively be settled as of our measurement
      date, December 31.  The benefit cash flow-matching approach
      involves analyzing Caterpillar's projected cash flows against a high
      quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate
      Aa bonds available on the measurement date.  The very highest
      and lowest yielding bonds (top and bottom 10%) are excluded from the
      analysis.  Previously, we used the Moody's Aa bond yield as of
      our measurement date, November 30, and validated the discount rate using
      the benefit cash flow-matching approach.  A similar change was
      made to determine the assumed discount rate for our most significant
      non-U.S. plans. This rate is sensitive to changes in interest rates. A
      decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation and future
      expense. 

The expected
      rate of compensation increase is used to develop benefit obligations using
      projected pay at retirement. It represents average long-term salary
      increases. This rate is influenced by our long-term compensation policies.
      An increase in the rate would increase our obligation and
      expense. 

The assumed
      health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are
      assumed to increase and is based on historical and expected experience.
      Changes in our projections of future health care costs due to general
      economic conditions and those specific to health care (e.g., technology
      driven cost changes) will impact this trend rate. An increase in the trend
      rate would increase our obligation and
expense. 

Post-sale discount reserve   
We provide discounts to dealers and OEMs through merchandising programs that are
administered by our marketing groups.  We have numerous programs that
are designed to promote the sale of our products.  The most common
dealer programs provide a discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted
end user.  OEM programs provide discounts designed to encourage the
use of our engines. The cost of discounts is estimated based on historical
experience and planned changes in merchandising programs and is reported as a
reduction to sales when the product sale is recognized.  The amount of
accrued post-sale discounts was $828 million, $669 million and $726 million as
of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  The reserve
represents discounts that we expect to pay on previously sold units and is
reviewed at least quarterly.  The reserve is adjusted if discounts
paid differ from those estimated.  Historically, those adjustments
have not been material. 

Credit loss reserve   
Management's ongoing evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit
losses considers both impaired and unimpaired finance receivables and takes into
consideration past loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio,
adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay, estimated
value of underlying collateral and current economic conditions. In estimating
probable losses we review accounts that are past due, non-performing, in
bankruptcy or otherwise identified as at risk for potential credit loss.
Accounts are identified as at risk for potential credit loss using information
available about the customer, such as financial statements, news reports and
published credit ratings as well as general information regarding industry
trends and the general economic environment. 

The allowance for
credit losses attributable to specific accounts is based on the most probable
source of repayment, which is normally the liquidation of collateral. In
determining collateral value we estimate current fair market value of collateral
and factor in credit enhancements such as additional collateral and third party
guarantees. The allowance for credit losses attributable to the remaining
accounts is a general allowance based upon the risk in the portfolio, primarily
using probabilities of default and an estimate of associated losses. In
addition, qualitative factors not able to be fully captured in previous analysis
including industry trends, macroeconomic factors and model imprecision are
considered in the evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses.
These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management
judgment. 

While management
believes it has exercised prudent judgment and applied reasonable assumptions
which have resulted in an allowance presented in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, there can be no assurance that in the future,
changes in economic conditions or other factors might cause changes in the
financial health of our customers which could change the timing and level of
payments received thus necessitating a change to our estimated
losses. 

Page A-90  

Income tax reserve    Despite
our belief that our tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax
laws, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged by taxing
authorities. Settlement of any challenge can result in no change, a complete
disallowance, or some partial adjustment reached through negotiations or
litigation. Our tax reserves reflect the difference between the tax benefit
claimed on tax returns and the amount recognized in financial statements in
accordance with FIN 48.  FIN 48 requires that tax benefits recognized
in the financial statements must be at least more likely than not of being
sustained based on technical merits.  The amount of benefit recorded
for these positions is measured as the largest benefit more likely than not to
be sustained.  Significant judgment is required in making these
determinations.  As the examination process progresses with tax
authorities, adjustments to tax reserves may be necessary to reflect taxes
payable upon settlement.  Tax reserve adjustments related to positions
impacting the effective tax rate affect the provision for income
taxes.  Tax reserve adjustments related to positions impacting the
timing of deductions impact deferred tax assets and
liabilities. 

EMPLOYMENT   

Caterpillar s worldwide employment was
112,887 at the end of 2008, up 11,554 from a year ago.  Of the
increase, approximately 5,500 were the result of consolidating Cat Japan and
about 1,300 were the result of acquisitions.  The remaining increase
of 4,800 employees primarily supported growth and new product
introductions.  

OTHER MATTERS  

ENVIRONMENTAL AND LEGAL
MATTERS  

The company is
regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our
use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition
to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the
development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance
with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines.
Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital
expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in
remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies,
pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is reasonably probable we
will pay remedial costs at a site and those costs can be reasonably estimated,
the costs are charged against our earnings.  In formulating that
estimate, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance
companies or others.  The amount recorded for environmental
remediation is not material and is included in  Accrued expenses  in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 

We cannot reasonably
estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of
remediation.  Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages
of remediation and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount
for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the
aggregate, will be required. 

On May 14, 2007, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of Violation to
Caterpillar Inc., alleging various violations of Clean Air Act Sections 203, 206
and 207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar violated such sections by
shipping engines and catalytic converter after-treatment devices separately,
introducing into commerce a number of uncertified and/or misbuilt engines and
failing to timely report emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is
currently engaging in negotiations with EPA to resolve these issues, but we are
unable at this time to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and, based
upon initial discussions and although penalties could potentially exceed
$100,000, management does not believe that this issue will have a material
adverse impact on our financial position. 

Page A-91  

We have disclosed
certain individual legal proceedings in this filing.  Additionally, we
are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course
of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve disputes
related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including
claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues or
intellectual property rights.  Although it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe that
these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
operations. 

On September 29,
2004, Kruse Technology Partnership (Kruse) filed a lawsuit against Caterpillar
in the United States District Court for the Central District of California
alleging that certain Caterpillar engines built from October 2002 to the present
infringe upon certain claims of three of Kruse's patents on engine fuel
injection timing and combustion strategies.  Caterpillar denied
Kruse's allegations and filed a counterclaim seeking a declaration from the
court that Caterpillar is not infringing upon Kruse's patents and that the
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  On December 20, 2008,
Caterpillar and Kruse entered into a confidential settlement agreement whereby
all pending claims with regard to the lawsuit were settled.  The
settlement, which did not have a material impact on our financial statements,
included an agreement by both parties to not bring any future actions in the
matter.  Subsequent to the agreement, the court entered an order
dismissing the case. 

STOCK-BASED
COMPENSATION 

On January 1, 2006,
we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," (SFAS 123R) using the modified
prospective transition method.  The modified prospective transition
method requires compensation expense to be recognized in the financial
statements for all awards granted after the date of adoption as well as for the
unvested portion of previously granted awards outstanding as of the date of
adoption.  Prior to the date of adoption of SFAS 123R, we used the
intrinsic-value based method, as described in Accounting Principles Board No.
25, to account for stock options and no compensation expense was recognized in
association with our stock awards. 

In anticipation of
the adoption of SFAS 123R, we did not modify the terms of any previously granted
options. Our stock incentive plans provide for the granting of nonqualified
options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock
units (RSUs) to officers, directors and key employees of the
company.  In 2007, in order to align our stock award program with the
overall market, we adjusted our 2007 grant by reducing the overall number of
employee awards and utilizing RSUs in addition to the SARs and option
awards.  The 2008, 2007 and 2006 awards generally vest three years
after the date of grant.  At grant, SARs and option awards have a term
life of ten years.  Upon separation from service, if the participant
is 55 years of age or older with more than ten years of service, the participant
meets the criteria for a  Long Service Separation".  If the  Long
Service Separation  criteria are met, the vested options/SARs will have a life
that is the lesser of 10 years from the original grant date or five years from
the separation date. 

We use a
lattice-based option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of options and
SARs granted.  We use the stock price on the day of grant reduced by
the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting
period to estimate the fair value of the RSUs granted.  The adoption
of SFAS 123R reduced operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2006 by
$137 million and reduced profit after-tax by $92 million ($.14 per share basic
and $.09 per share diluted).  2008 and 2007 stock-based compensation
expense was $194 million and $146 million, respectively.  At December
31, 2008, $136 million of expense with respect to unvested stock-based awards
has yet to be recognized and will be expensed over a weighted-average period of
approximately 1.8 years. 

RETIREMENT
BENEFITS 

In September 2006,
the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS 158),
"Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)." SFAS 158
requires the recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of pension and
other postretirement benefit plans on the balance sheet.  Under SFAS
158, gains and losses, prior service costs and credits and any remaining
transition amounts under SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 that have not yet been recognized
through net periodic benefit cost are recognized in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of tax effects, until they are amortized as a
component of net periodic cost.  Also, the measurement date   the date
at which the benefit obligation and plan assets are measured   is required to be
the company's fiscal year-end. We adopted the balance sheet recognition
provisions at December 31, 2006, and adopted the year-end measurement date
effective January 1, 2008 using the  one measurement  approach.  Under
the one measurement approach, net periodic benefit cost for the period between
any early measurement date and the end of the fiscal year that the measurement
provisions are applied is allocated proportionately between amounts to be
recognized as an adjustment of Profit employed in the business and net periodic
benefit cost for the fiscal year.  Previously, we used a November
30 th  measurement
date for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans and September
30 th  for our
non-U.S. plans.  The adoption of the balance sheet recognition
provisions reduced December 31, 2006 assets by approximately $500 million,
increased liabilities by approximately $2.20 billion and reduced stockholders'
equity by approximately $2.70 billion. Also, we reclassified approximately $500
million from current liabilities to long-term liabilities based on the
classification guidelines provided in SFAS 158.  The adoption of the
year-end measurement date provisions increased January 1, 2008 assets by $8
million, increased liabilities by $24 million and reduced stockholders  equity
by $16 million.  The adoption of this Statement did not impact our
results of operations. 

Page A-92  

We recognized
pension expense of $200 million in 2008 as compared to $361 million in
2007. The decrease in expense was primarily a result of lower amortization of
net actuarial losses due to higher discount rates and better than expected asset
returns.  In addition, pension expense for 2007 included a $44 million
charge to recognize previously unrecorded liabilities related to a subsidiary
pension plan.  SFAS 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," as
amended by SFAS 158, requires companies to discount future benefit obligations
back to today's dollars using a discount rate that is based on high-quality
fixed-income investments. A decrease in the discount rate increases the pension
benefit obligation, while an increase in the discount rate decreases the pension
benefit obligation.  This increase or decrease in the pension benefit
obligation is recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
subsequently amortized into earnings as an actuarial gain or
loss.  SFAS 87 also requires companies to use an expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets for computing current year pension expense.
Differences between the actual and expected asset returns are also recognized in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently amortized into
earnings as actuarial gains and losses. At the end of 2008, total actuarial
losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were
$7.74 billion, as compared to $2.72 billion in 2007. The majority of
the actuarial losses are due to significant asset losses during 2008 in addition
to losses from other demographic and economic assumptions over the past several
years.  The $5.02 billion increase from 2007 to 2008 was primarily the
result of asset losses during 2008, partially offset by an increase in discount
rate and foreign exchange rate gains for non-U.S. plans. 

In 2008, we
recognized other postretirement benefit expense of $287 million compared to
$311 million in 2007. The decrease in expense was primarily the result of
lower amortization of actuarial losses due to higher discount rates. Actuarial
losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for other
postretirement benefit plans were $881 million at the end of 2008. These
losses mainly reflect significant asset losses during 2008, an increase in
expected health care inflation and several years of declining discount rates.
The losses were $122 million higher at the end of 2008 as compared to 2007
due to asset losses during 2008, partially offset by lower than expected health
care costs. 

Actuarial losses for
both pensions and other postretirement benefits will be impacted in future
periods by actual asset returns, actual health care inflation, discount rate
changes, actual demographic experience and other factors that impact these
expenses. These losses, reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss), will be amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost on a
straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active
employees expected to receive benefits under the benefit plans. At the end of
2008, the average remaining service period of active employees was 10 years
for our U.S. pension plans, 13 years for our non-U.S. pension plans and
7 years for other postretirement benefit plans. We expect our amortization
of net actuarial losses to increase approximately $87 million in 2009 as
compared to 2008, primarily due to asset losses during 2008.  We
expect our total pension and other postretirement benefits expense to increase
approximately $250 million in 2009, excluding any impact from redundancy
charges. 

For our U.S. pension
plans, our 2008 asset allocation was 70 percent equity securities and
30 percent debt securities, and our target allocation for 2009 is
70 percent equity securities, 25 percent debt securities and 5 percent
real estate. The 2008 asset allocation for our non-U.S. pension plans was
50 percent equity securities, 41 percent debt securities,
6 percent real estate and 3 percent other. The 2009 target allocation for
our non-U.S. pension plans is 54 percent equity securities, 37 percent
debt securities, 6 percent real estate and 3 percent other. Our target
asset allocations reflect our investment strategy of maximizing the rate of
return on plan assets and the resulting funded status, within an appropriate
level of risk. The U.S. plans are rebalanced to plus or minus five percentage
points of the target asset allocation ranges on a monthly basis. The frequency
of rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies depending on the plan. 

The use of certain
derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and necessary for
achieving overall investment policy objectives. The U.S. plans currently utilize
futures contracts to offset current equity positions in order to rebalance the
total portfolio to the target asset allocation. During 2008, approximately 5
percent of the U.S. pension plans  assets were rebalanced from equity
to fixed income positions through the use of futures contracts, as compared
to 10 percent for 2007 and 2006. The actual asset allocation percentages above
represent this rebalancing effort. The plans do not engage in futures contracts
for speculative purposes. 

During 2008, we made
cash contributions of $288 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension
plans and $134 million to our non-U.S. pension plans.  We expect
to make approximately $1 billion of contributions during 2009, most of
which are required. We have adequate liquidity resources to fund both U.S. and
non-U.S. pension plans. 

Actuarial
assumptions have a significant impact on both pension and other postretirement
benefit expenses. The effects of a one percentage point change in our primary
actuarial assumptions on 2008 benefit costs and year-end obligations are
included in the table below. 

Page A-93  

Postretirement
      Benefit Plan Actuarial Assumptions Sensitivity 

Following are
      the effects of a one percentage-point change in our primary pension and
      other postretirement benefit actuarial assumptions (included in the
      following table) on 2008 pension and other postretirement benefits costs
      and obligations: 

2008
      Benefit Cost 

Year-end
      Benefit Obligation 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    point
      increase 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    point
      decrease 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    point
      increase 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    point
      decrease 

Pension
      benefits: 

Assumed
      discount rate 

$ 

(156 

) 

$ 

165 

$ 

(1,652 

) 

$ 

1,873 

Expected rate
      of compensation increase 

88 

(83 

) 

437 

(406 

) 

Expected
      long-term rate of return on plan assets 

(126 

) 

126 

Other
      postretirement benefits: 

Assumed
      discount rate 

(31 

) 

30 

(476 

) 

527 

Expected rate
      of compensation increase 

1 

(1 

) 

Expected
      long-term rate of return on plan assets 

(15 

) 

15 

Assumed health
      care cost trend rate 

55 

(49 

) 

350 

(309 

) 

Page A-94  

SENSITIVITY 

Foreign
Exchange Rate Sensitivity 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Machinery and
Engines use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage unmatched
foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to minimize the risk
of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our
foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for managing anticipated foreign
currency cash flow for up to five years. Based on the anticipated and firmly
committed cash inflow and outflow for our Machinery and Engines operations for
the next 12 months and the foreign currency derivative instruments in place
at year-end, a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar
relative to all other currencies would adversely affect our expected 2009 cash
flow for our Machinery and Engines operations by approximately
$378 million. Last year similar assumptions and calculations yielded a
potential $100 million adverse impact on 2008 cash flow.  We
determine our net exposures by calculating the difference in cash inflow and
outflow by currency and adding or subtracting outstanding foreign currency
derivative instruments. We multiply these net amounts by 10 percent to
determine the sensitivity. 

Since our policy for
Financial Products operations is to hedge the foreign exchange risk when the
currency of our debt portfolio does not match the currency of our receivable
portfolio, a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to
all other currencies would not have a material effect on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Neither our policy nor
the effect of a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar has
changed from that reported at the end of last year. 

The effect of the
hypothetical change in exchange rates ignores the effect this movement may have
on other variables, including competitive risk. If it were possible to quantify
this competitive impact, the results would probably be different from the
sensitivity effects shown above. In addition, it is unlikely that all currencies
would uniformly strengthen or weaken relative to the U.S. dollar. In reality,
some currencies may weaken while others may strengthen. Our primary exposure
(excluding competitive risk) is to exchange rate movements in the British pound,
Japanese yen and euro. 

Interest
Rate Sensitivity 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          For our Machinery
and Engines operations, we have the option to use interest rate swaps to lower
the cost of borrowed funds by attaching fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to
fixed-rate debt. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move (increase) in
interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would adversely affect
2009 pretax earnings of Machinery and Engines by $16 million. Last year,
similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $9 million adverse
impact on 2008 pretax earnings. This effect is caused by the interest rate
fluctuations on our short-term debt and  fixed-to-floating
 interest rate swaps. 

For our Financial
Products operations, we use interest rate derivative instruments primarily to
meet our match-funding objectives and strategies. We have a match-funding policy
whereby the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate) of our debt portfolio
is matched to the interest rate profile of our earning asset portfolio (finance
receivables and operating leases) within certain parameters. In connection with
that policy, we use interest rate swap agreements to modify the debt structure.
Match funding assists us in maintaining our interest rate spreads, regardless of
the direction interest rates move. 

In order to properly
manage sensitivity to changes in interest rates, Financial Products measures the
potential impact of different interest rate assumptions on pretax earnings. All
on-balance sheet positions, including derivative financial instruments, are
included in the analysis. The primary assumptions included in the analysis are
that there are no new fixed rate assets or liabilities, the proportion of fixed
rate debt to fixed rate assets remains unchanged and the level of floating rate
assets and debt remain constant. Based on the December 31, 2008 balance
sheet under these assumptions, the analysis estimates the impact of a 100 basis
point immediate and sustained parallel rise in interest rates to be a
$28 million decrease to pretax earnings for 2009.  Last year,
similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $19 million adverse
impact on 2008 pretax earnings. 

This analysis does
not necessarily represent our current outlook of future market interest rate
movement, nor does it consider any actions management could undertake in
response to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, no assurance can be given
that actual results would be consistent with the results of our
estimate. 

Page A-95  

NON-GAAP
FINANCIAL MEASURES   

Profit
Per Share Excluding Redundancy Costs 

Caterpillar has
historically provided a profit per share outlook for the following year in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  In 2009, we expect to incur significant
redundancy costs related to employment reductions as a result of company actions
to reduce costs in response to an expected significant decline in sales volume
and so we provided an outlook for profit per share of $2.50 excluding redundancy
costs, a non-GAAP measure.  We believe it is important to separately
quantify the expected amount of redundancy charges in order for our outlook to
be meaningful to our readers. 

Reconciliation of
profit per share excluding redundancy costs to the most directly comparable GAAP
measure, profit per share: 

Supplemental
Consolidating Data 

We are providing
supplemental consolidating data for the purpose of additional analysis. 
The data has been grouped as follows: 

Consolidated  Caterpillar Inc.
and its subsidiaries. 

Machinery and Engines  The
Machinery and Engines data contained in the schedules on pages A-97 to A-99 are
"non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in Regulation G. These non-GAAP financial measures have no
standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and therefore, are unlikely to be
comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies.
Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a
substitute for the related GAAP measures. Caterpillar defines Machinery and
Engines as it is presented in the supplemental data as Caterpillar Inc. and
its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis.
Machinery and Engines information relates to our design, manufacturing,
marketing and parts distribution operations. Financial Products information
relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of
Caterpillar and other equipment. The nature of these businesses is different,
especially with regard to the financial position and cash flow items.
Caterpillar management utilizes this presentation internally to highlight these
differences. We also believe this presentation will assist readers in
understanding our business. 

Financial Products   primarily
our finance and insurance subsidiaries, Cat Financial and Cat
Insurance. 

Consolidating
Adjustments  eliminations of transactions between Machinery and Engines
and Financial Products. 

Pages A-97 to A-99
reconcile Machinery and Engines with Financial Products on the equity basis to
Caterpillar Inc. consolidated financial information. 

Page A-96  

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted
      for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  revenues earned from Machinery and
      Engines. 

3  

Elimination of
      net expenses recorded by Machinery and Engines paid to Financial
      Products. 

4  

Elimination of
      interest expense recorded between Financial Products and Machinery and
      Engines. 

5  

Elimination of
      discount recorded by Machinery and Engines on receivables sold to
      Financial Products and of interest earned between Machinery and Engines
      and Financial Products. 

6  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  profit due to equity method of
    accounting. 

Page A-97  

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products
      accounted for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      receivables between Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products. 

3  

Reclassification
      of Machinery and Engines  trade receivables purchased by Cat Financial and
      Cat Financial's wholesale inventory receivables. 

4  

Elimination of
      Machinery and Engines  insurance premiums that are prepaid to Financial
      Products. 

5  

Elimination of
      Machinery and Engines  investment in Financial Products
      subsidiary. 

6  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  equity which is accounted for on Machinery and Engines
      on the equity basis. 

7  

Reclassification
      reflecting required netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities by taxing
      jurisdiction. 

8  

Elimination of
      debt between Machinery and Engines and Financial
  Products. 

9  

Elimination of
      payables between Machinery and Engines and Financial
    Products. 

10  

Elimination of
      prepaid insurance in Financial Products' accrued
  expenses. 

Page A-98  

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted
      for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  profit after tax due to equity method of
      accounting. 

3  

Non-cash
      adjustment for the undistributed earnings from Financial
      Products. 

4  

Elimination of
      non-cash adjustments and changes in assets and liabilities related to
      consolidated reporting. 

5  

Reclassification
      of Cat Financial's cash flow activity from investing to operating for
      receivables that arose from the sale of inventory. 

6  

Net proceeds
      and payments to/from Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products. 

7  

Change in
      investment and common stock related to Financial
  Products. 

8  

Elimination of
      dividends from Financial Products to Machinery and
      Engines.  

Page A-99  

OUTLOOK  

The financial and
banking crisis accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2008 and has significantly
impacted economic growth in general and the industries that we serve around the
globe.  As a result, our outlook for 2009 has worsened. 

We expect 2009 will
be the weakest year for economic growth in the postwar period.  We are
expecting recessionary conditions to persist in most of the world throughout the
year, with a slight decline in the world economy. 

Preliminary data indicates the
      world economy fell into recession in fourth quarter 2008.  The
      developed economies of the United States, euro-zone, United Kingdom and
      Japan declined sharply, many developing economies slowed, and commodity
      prices dropped in response to weaker
  demand.  

Economic policymakers were
      distracted by inflationary   concerns during last summer s
      surge in commodity prices and were slow to respond to economic weaknesses
      and the credit crisis.  Effective actions did not really begin
      until after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September.  The
      timing of the response means the world economy will likely remain severely
      depressed through at least the middle of
  2009.  

Central banks in developed
      economies have cut interest rates to, or near, record lows, and several
      key developing economies have responded by lowering rates.     In addition, some
      countries are implementing measures to increase monetary growth, reduce
      credit spreads and drive spending through fiscal stimulus programs, which
      should aid construction.  

Most commodity prices dropped
      below investment threshold levels   in late 2008, and producers are
      reducing and delaying investments.  We expect this unfavorable
      environment to persist throughout the
  year.  

We expect 2009 will be a dismal
      year for the world economy, but conditions for much better growth are
      developing,   particularly in industries we
      serve.  Interest rates throughout the world are at historically
      low levels and should eventually be favorable for
      investment.  Despite a higher level of spending over the past
      few years, capacity in the world s infrastructure, mining and energy
      industries is still inadequate or outdated.  Reduced investment
      in 2009 is going to leave future capacity even more strained. Government
      stimulus plans are a step in the right direction and should help economic
      growth.  

While we are en  couraged by actions that have been
      taken to drive economic improvements, we are concerned that the European
      Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are responding too slowly to today s
      economic crisis.  In addition, we are concerned that central
      banks may begin tightening policies at the first sign of economic recovery
      and could create another
downturn.  

North American
economies should decline 1.5 percent in 2009, but we expect the United States
will be the first major economy to pull out of recession, sometime in the second
half of 2009. 

The U.S. economy has been in
      recession throughout 2008, GDP started declining in the third quarter of
      2008, and U.S. machinery industries that we serve have been declining
      since early 2006.  Output likely will decline throughout the
      second quarter, causing this recession to about match the 1981-82
      recession in duration and
severity.  

The Federal Funds rate has traded
      at the lowest level on record, and the Fed has indicated it will keep
      rates low for an extended time.  So, we assume no rate increases
      will occ  ur this
      year.  Despite the low Federal Funds rate, credit spreads remain
      elevated, so the Fed is focusing on increasing liquidity and providing
      funds directly to businesses and consumers.  Monetary growth has
      accelerated at unprecedented rates and should eventually encourage more
      spending, possibly in the second half of
  2009.  

The Obama administration s
      stimulus program should increase funds for infrastructure
      construction.  Quick passage of the bill could increase funding
      in the second half of 2009, and s  ome improvement in infrastructure
      spending is expected.  

Housing affordability is near a
      record high, and 30-year mortgage rates could fall below 4.5 percent this
      year, helping to stabilize housing later in the year.  We expect
      housing starts will be appr  oximately 900 thousand units,
      about the same as 2008.  

Central Appalachian coal prices
      should average a little more than $40 per ton in 2009, which should allow
      a 0.5 percent increase in coal
  production.  

The Canadian economy should
      decline slightly, pro  mpting the Bank of Canada to cut
      its interest rate another 25 basis points to 0.75
      percent.  

We expect European economies to decline
almost 2 percent this year.  Recessions in both the euro-zone and
United Kingdom will likely last most of the year, making the recessions some of
the worst in the postwar period.  

The Bank of England recently cut
      interest rates to 1.0 percent. The European Central Bank cut interest
      rates to 2 percent and boosted monetary growth.  However, the
      bank has been less aggressive in cutting interest rates than other central
      banks, creating the risk of an extended period of
      weakness.  

European governments announced
      stimulus packages, which will provide funds for infrastructure
      construction.  However, we expect   housing and nonresidential
      construction will decline in most European
    countries.  

The Japanese economy should decline
about 2 percent, remaining in recession for most of the
year.  

Page A-100  

The Bank of Japan recently cut
      interest rates from 0.3 percent to 0.1 percent.  However, the
      short-term interest rate, as in the last cycle, has not had a significant
      impact on improving growth.  

The bank has started buying
      commercial paper and has increased bank reserves
      slightly.  Easing, however, has not been sufficient to provide
      the liquidity for an economic
recovery.  

Government stimulus packages
      should boost public construction, but private construction likely will
      continue declining.  

Economic growth in
the developing economies should average about 2 percent in 2009, the slowest
since 1998, but still outperform developed economies. 

In recent years, these economies
      have benefited from lower inflation and interest rates, more competitive
      exports and higher commodity prices.  Many of those factors
      remain more favorable than in past
  downturns.  

Key countries, particularly in
      Asia, have aggressively reversed past policy tightening; with interest
      rates at or below lows earlier this decade.  We expect further
      easing in many countries.  

In the past, balance-of-payments
      problems often prevented these countries from adopting expansive economic
      policies during worldwide economic slowdowns.  We do not expect
      these countries to be as severely constrained since many are running
      surpluses with developed countries and have accumulated significant
      foreign exchange reserves.  

Most governments have not
      increased spending in line with increases in export and commodity
      revenues.  As a result, governments will not need to cut
      spending in line with declines in exports and commodity
      revenues.  

SALES
AND REVENUES OUTLOOK 

The depth and duration of economic
decline throughout the world makes it very difficult to forecast sales and
revenues.  As a result, we are focused on executing our strategic
 trough  plans throughout the company.  

We are encouraged by the actions of
central banks around the world and the prospects of fiscal
stimulus.  We are optimistic that economic conditions in the United
States will stabilize later in the year and may show some signs of
recovery.  However, we are implementing actions throughout the company
to be prepared for a very negative year with sales and revenues in a range of
plus or minus 10 percent from $40 billion.  

While sales and revenues could be higher
than $40 billion in 2009, the economic picture is extremely difficult to
predict, and it is prudent to focus the company on actions that will deliver our
 trough  profit goal.  

We expect significant declines in all
geographic regions in most industries.  At $40 billion, the sales
volume decline, excluding the impact of consolidating Cat Japan, is about 25
percent.  Volume related to machines and engines would be down about
30 percent, and sales and revenues of  integrated service
businesses  would be down about 5 percent.  

Some improvement in price realization
and about $1 billion of additional sales as a result of the consolidation of Cat
Japan are partial offsets to the sharp drop in volume.  

PROFIT
OUTLOOK 

As a result of
sharply declining sales, we expect 2009 profit to drop significantly from 2008,
and we are taking actions to achieve  trough  profit targets.  At $40
billion in 2009 sales and revenues, we expect to achieve profit per share of
about $2.00 per share, or $2.50 per share excluding redundancy costs of about
$500 million before tax.  We have initiated actions which will remove
about 20,000 workers from our business and every indirect spend dollar will be
heavily scrutinized.  These actions support lowering our production
costs in line with a 25-percent decline in sales volume and reducing SG A
and R D costs supporting our Machinery and Engines business collectively by
about 15 percent.  Actions include: 

Voluntary and involuntary
      separations and layoffs of about 6,000 full-time production
      employees.  Depending on business conditions more layoffs may be
      required as the year
unfolds.  

Sharp declines in overtime
      work.  Factory overtime is a key element of volume flexibility
      and many facilities were working high levels of overtime through most of
      2008.  

Several facilities have shortened
      workweeks, and thousands of employees have been, or will be, affected by
      temporary layoffs and full and partial plant
    shutdowns.  

Elimination of almost 8,000
      temporary, contract and agency workers.  While these workers are
      a key element of our  flexible workforce  they are not included among the
      112,887 full-time employees at year
end.  

Page A-101  

Voluntary separations of about
      2,200 support and management
employees.  

Additional layoffs or separations
      of as many as 5,000 support and management
    employees.  

Hiring freezes and suspension of
      salary increases for most support and management
      employees.  

Significant reductions in total
      compensation for executives / senior
  managers.  

For our short-term incentive plans
      to trigger payment, we must achieve above $2.50 profit per
      share.  

Reduction in indirect expenses of
      about 15 percent.  

Significant reduction in capital
      expenditures.  

Shifting more resources to work on
      short- and medium-term material cost
  reduction.  

Shifting more resources to work on
      inventory reduction
projects.  

ELEMENTS OF PROFIT
OUTLOOK  

We expect significantly lower
      sales volume across all regions and most industries.  The
      consolidation of Cat Japan is expected to add about $1 billion to sales,
      but be negative to profit as a result of severe economic decline in
      Japan.  

We are forecasting improved price
      realization for 2009 as there still is cost pressure in the
      system.  

To support our price realization
      forecast, we are rapidly scaling back production to align dealer inventory
      with demand as we move through the year, and we believe the industry is
      rapidly scaling back to minimize inventory as
  well.  

Material costs are expected to
      increase slightly.  Because material costs rose significantly in
      the second half of 2008 and our material costs tend to lag trends in
      commodities, we expect that year-over-year cost comparisons will be
      negative in the first half of the year and will improve in the second
      half.  

We expect efficiency improvement
      as a result of continued implementation of the   Cat
      Production System (CPS).   However, production volume,
      particularly in the first quarter, will likely drop faster than
      manufacturing costs as we sharply lower production, employment and cost
      levels.  

Excluding Cat Japan, Machinery and
      Engines SG A and R D expenses are forecast to decline about 15
      percent.  R D spending in 2009 will be primarily focused on
      new products to meet Tier 4 regulatory emissions
      requirements.  

We expect about $500 million of
      redundancy expense related to employment reductions; most of the expense
      is expected to occur in the first
  quarter.  

Financial Products profit before
      tax is expected to decline by about 50 percent in 2009 as a result of
      higher liquidity costs and the resulting tighter spreads between the cost
      of borrowing and Cat Financial s lending
  rates.  

FIRST QUARTER 2009  

It is not our
practice to provide specific quarterly profit guidance, and we do not intend to
start.  However, we are in unprecedented times, and some discussion
around the first quarter is appropriate. 

While we expect the
full year of 2009 to be very challenging, profit in the first half, and
particularly the first quarter, will be under severe pressure. In fact, a
first-quarter loss is possible.  There are two primary reasons that
profit will be particularly weak early in the year: 

First, production volume will be
      severely depressed and is likely to fall faster than dealer sales to end
      users.  We opened dealer order boards around the world in the
      fourth quarter to allow dealers to cancel existing orders in response to
      deteriorating economic conditions.  Dealers reacted and have cut
      orders substantially.  We expect that this will result in
      further declines in dealer inventory in the first quarter at a time of
      year when dealers normally build inventory in preparation for higher sales
      to end users in the spring and summer.  We have announced
      significant measures to bring production, costs and employment down, but
      given lead times necessary for employees, we expect that our production
      and sales will fall faster than costs early in the
      year.  

Second, we expect a substantial
      charge for redundancy costs, about $500 million for the year, with most of
      it coming in the first
quarter.  

*
* * 

The information
included in the Outlook section is forward looking and involves risks and
uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. A discussion of
these risks and uncertainties is contained in Item 1A of this
Form 10-K. 

Page A-102  

SUPPLEMENTAL STOCKHOLDER
INFORMATION  

Stock
      Purchase Plan 

Current
      stockholders and other interested investors may purchase Caterpillar Inc.
      common stock directly through the Investor Services Program sponsored and
      administered by our Transfer Agent.  Current stockholders can
      get more information on the program from our Transfer Agent using the
      contact information provided above. Non-stockholders can request program
      materials by calling: (866) 353-7849. The Investor Services Program
      materials are available on-line from our Transfer Agent's website or by
      following a link from
www.CAT.com/dspp. 

Company
      Information 

Current
      information - 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       phone our
      Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080
      (Outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen
      to a summary of Caterpillar s latest financial results and current
      outlook, or to request a copy of results by fax or mail 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       request, view, or
      download materials on-line or register for email alerts by
      visiting  www.CAT.com/materialsrequest 

Historical
      information - 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       view/download
      on-line at  www.CAT.com/historical  

Annual
      Meeting 

On Wednesday,
      June 10, 2009, at 1:30 p.m., Central Time, the annual meeting of
      stockholders will be held at the Northern Trust Building, Chicago,
      Illinois. Proxy materials are being sent to stockholders on or about May
      1, 2009. 

Internet 

Visit us on
      the Internet at  www.CAT.com  

Information
      contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this
      document. 

Page A-103  

Common
      Stock (NYSE: CAT) 

Listing
      Information:  Caterpillar common stock is listed on the New York and
      Chicago stock exchanges in the United States, and on stock exchanges in
      Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain and Switzerland. 

Compliance:   For
      2008, Caterpillar filed an Annual CEO Certification in compliance with New
      York stock exchange rules and CEO/CFO certifications in compliance with
      Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  These
      certifications are included as exhibits to our Form 10-K filing for
      the relevant fiscal year. 

Price
      Ranges:  Quarterly price ranges of Caterpillar common stock on the
      New York Stock Exchange, the principal market in which the stock is
      traded, were: 

Performance
      Graph:   Total
      Cumulative Stockholder Return for Five-Year Period Ending December 31,
      2008  

The graph below shows the
      cumulative stockholder return assuming an investment of $100 on
      December 31, 2003, and reinvestment of dividends issued
      thereafter.  

Page A-104  

DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS  

Audit  

Compensation  

Governance  

Public
      Pol  i  cy   

W. Frank
    Blount  

*  

John R.
    Brazil  

Daniel M.
      Dickinson  

John T.
    Dillon  

Eugene V.
    Fife  

*  

Gail D.
    Fosler  

Juan
    Gallardo  

David R.
    Goode  

*  

Peter A.
      Magowan  

William A.
      Osborn  

James W.
    Owens  

Charles D.
      Powell  

*  

Edward B. Rust,
      Jr.  

Joshua I.
    Smith  

* Chairman of
      Committee  

James W.
    Owens  

Chairman and Chief Executive
      Officer  

Stephen A.
      Gosselin  

Vice
    President  

Richard P.
      Lavin  

Group
    President  

Hans A.
    Haefeli  

Vice
    President  

Stuart L.
      Levenick  

Group
    President  

John S.
      Heller 

Vice President and Chief
      Information Officer  

Douglas R.
      Oberhelman  

Group
    President  

Gwenne A.
      Henricks 

Vice
    President  

Edward J.
    Rapp  

Group
    President  

Stephen P.
      Larson 

Vice
    President  

G rard R.
      Vittecoq  

Group
    President  

Daniel M.
      Murphy 

Vice
    President  

Steven H.
      Wunning  

Group
    President  

James J.
      Parker 

Vice
    President  

Kent M.
    Adams  

Vice
    President  

Mark R.
      Pflederer 

Vice
    President  

William P. Ains  worth  

Vice
    President  

William J.
      Rohner 

Vice
    President  

Ali M.
Bahaj  

Vice
    President  

Christiano V.
      Schena 

Vice
    President  

Sidney C.
      Banwart  

Vice
    President  

William F.
      Springer 

Vice
    President  

Michael J. Baunton   1  

Vice
    President  

Gary A.
      Stampanato 

Vice
    President  

Rodney C.
      Beeler 

Vice
    President  

Gary A.
      Stroup 

Vice
    President  

Mary H.
Bell  

Vice
    President  

Tana L.
      Utley 

Vice
    President  

Thomas J.
    Bluth  

Vice
    President  

James D.
      Waters, Jr. 

Vice
    President  

James B.
    Buda  

Vice President, General Counsel
      and Secretary  

Robert T.
      Williams 

Vice
    President  

David B.
      Burritt  

Vice President and Chief Financial
      Officer  

Jiming Zhu
       2  

Vice
    President  

Richard J.
    Case  

Vice
    President  

Bradley M.
      Halverson 

Controller  

Robert B. Charter   2  

Vice
    President  

Kevin E. Colgan  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Treasurer  

Christopher C.
      Curfman  

Vice
    President  

Edward J. Scott  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chief Ethics and Compliance
      Officer  

Paolo
      Fellin  

Vice
      President  

Jananne A. Copeland  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chief Accounting
    Officer  

Steven L.
      Fisher  

Vice
    President  

Robin D.
      Beran 

Assistant
      Treasurer 

Gregory S. Folley   2  

Vice
    President  

Tinkie E.
      Demmin 

Assistant
      Secretary 

Thomas A. Gales   3  

Vice
    President  

Laurie J.
      Huxtable 

Assistant
      Secretary 

Page A-105  

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 8
 ex_21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES & AFFILIATES

ex_21.htm 

Subsidiaries  (51% or more ownership) 

Name of Company  

Where Organized  

1446790
      Ontario Limited 

Ontario 

Acefun S.A.
      de C.V. 

Mexico 

Aceros
      Fundidos Internacionales LLC 

Delaware 

Aceros
      Fundidos Internacionales S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Anchor
      Coupling Inc. 

Delaware 

Asia Power
      Systems (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

AsiaTrak
      (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

Carter
      Machinery Company, Incorporated 

Delaware 

Carter
      Rental, Inc. 

Virginia 

Cat Rental
      Kyushu Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      Central Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      East Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      Hokkaido Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      Kyushu Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      West Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      (Africa) (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Holding Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Investments Parent Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (China) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (China) Machinery Components Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (HK) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      (Kunming) Training and Consulting Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Caterpillar
      (U.K.) Limited 

England 

Caterpillar
      (Xuzhou) Design Center Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      AccessAccount Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Americas C.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Americas Co. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Americas Funding Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Americas Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Americas Services Co. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Asia Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      Asia Pacific L.P. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Belgium S. A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Brasil Servicos Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Brazil LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Business Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Central Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Centro de Formacion, S.L. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      China Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      CIS LLC 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      CMC, LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Holding S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Commercial LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Northern Europe Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Commercial S.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Commercial S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Services S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Commerciale S.r.L. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Communications LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Corporativo Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Credito, S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Financiera de Objecto Multiple, E.
      N.R. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      DC Pension Trust 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Distribution Mexico S.R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Distribution Services Europe B.V.B.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      East Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Elkader LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Engine Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Environmental Technologies Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      European Finance s.r.o. 

Czechoslovakia 

Caterpillar
      Finance Corporation 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Finance France S.A. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Finance, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Caterpillar
      Financial Acquisition Funding LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Acquisition Funding Partners 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      Financial Australia Limited 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Corporacion Financiera, S.A., E.F.C. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Financial Dealer Funding LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Funding Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Member Company 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial New Zealand Limited 

New
      Zealand 

Caterpillar
      Financial Nordic Services AB 

Sweden 

Caterpillar
      Financial Nova Scotia Corporation 

Nova
      Scotia 

Caterpillar
      Financial OOO 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Receivables Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Renting, S.A. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Financial S.A. Arrendamento Mercantil 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Financial S.A. Credito, Financiamento e Investimento 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Financial SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (Dubai) Limited 

United Arab
      Emirates 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (Ireland) plc 

Ireland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services CR, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Korea, Ltd. 

Korea 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Limited Les Services Financiers Caterpillar
      Limitee 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Norway AS 

Norway 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Philippines Inc. 

Philippines 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Poland Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Ukraine LLC 

Ukraine 

Caterpillar
      Finansal Kiralama Anomim Sirketi 

Turkey 

Caterpillar
      Fomento Comercial Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Forest Products Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      GB, L.L.C. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Global Mining Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Global Services LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Group Services S.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Hokkaido Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Holding (France) S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Holding Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Holding Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Hungary Component Manufacturing Ltd. 

Hungary 

Caterpillar
      Hydraulics Italia S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Impact Products Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      India Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Co. Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Company 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Holdings Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Services Corporation 

Tennessee 

Caterpillar
      International Finance Limited 

Ireland 

Caterpillar
      International Finance Luxembourg, S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      International Holding S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      International Investments Co peratie U.A. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      International Investments S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      International Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      International Services Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      International Services del Peru S.A. 

Peru 

Caterpillar
      Investment One SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Investment Two SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Investments 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Japan Accounting Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Akashi General Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Sagami Engineering Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Sagami General Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan System Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Okinawa Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Operator Training Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Special Products Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Panama, S. de R.L. 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Puerto Rico, S. en C. 

Puerto
      Rico 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services, S.R.L. 

Costa
      Rica 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Servicios de Chile Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Support Services, S. DE R.L. 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Leasing (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Caterpillar
      Leasing Chile, S.A. 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Leasing GmbH (Leipzig) 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Leasing Operativo Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Life Insurance Company 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      Logistics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Administrative Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de
      C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics ML Services France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (France) S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services China Limited 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Egypt Ltd. 

Egypt 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services India Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International LLC 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International N.V. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Polska Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Spain, S.A. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services Italia S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services Limited Liability Company 

Hungary 

Caterpillar
      Luxembourg Group S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      Marine Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Marine Power UK Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Marine Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Materiels Routiers S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Mining Chile Servicios Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Motoren (Guangdong) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Motoren GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Motoren Rostock GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Motoren Verwaltungs-GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      North America C.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      NZ Funding Parent Limited 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      of Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      of Canada Corporation 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      of Delaware, Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Overseas Credit Corporation S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Overseas Investment Holding, S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Overseas S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Panama Services SA 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Paving Products Inc. 

Oklahoma 

Caterpillar
      Paving Products Xuzhou Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Pension Trust Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Poland Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Power Generations Systems (Chile) SpA 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Power Generations Systems L.L.C. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Systems y Compa ia Limitada 

Nicaragua 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures International, Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Prodotti Stradali S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Product Development S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Product Services Corporation 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      R D Center (China) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Redistribution Services Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Redistribution Services International S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Reman Powertrain Indiana LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Reman Powertrain Services, Inc. 

South
      Carolina 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Drivetrain LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Renting France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Sales Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Services Limited 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Servicios Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Servicios Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Servizi Italia Srl 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Skinningrove Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Special Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Switchgear Holding Inc. 

Georgia 

Caterpillar
      Technologies Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Torreon S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Tosno, L.L.C. 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Transmissions France S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Tunnelling Canada Ltd. 

Ontario 

Caterpillar
      UGM Techonolgy Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      UK Acquisition Partners LP 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Employee Trust Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      UK Group Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Holding Company Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Holdings Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Underground Mining Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      West Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Work Tools B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Work Tools, Inc. 

Kansas 

Caterpillar
      World Trading Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Xuzhou Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar/SCB
      Investments LP 

Delaware 

Caterpillar/SCB
      Receivables Finance LP 

Nevada 

Catsub I,
      Inc. 

Oregon 

Centre de
      Distribution de Wallonie S.A. 

Belgium 

CFRC/CFMC
      Investments, LLC 

Delaware 

Chemetron-Railway
      Products, Inc. 

Delaware 

EDC European
      Excavator Design Center GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

EDC European
      Excavator Design Center Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Elektrocieplawnia
      Starahowice Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Energy
      Services International Limited 

Bermuda 

Ensambladora
      Tecnologica de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Euronov
      Polska 

France 

Eurenov
      S.A.S. 

Poland 

F.G. Wilson
      (Engineering) Limited 

Northern
      Ireland 

F.G. Wilson
      (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

F.G. Wilson
      (USA) LLC 

Delaware 

F G Wilson
      Generators India Private Limited 

India 

Federal
      Financial Services LLC 

Delaware 

Forchester do
      Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Forchester
      International S.A. 

Uruguay 

GFCM
      Servicios, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Guangzhou MaK
      Diesel Engine Limited Company 

China 

Inmobiliaria
      Conek, S.A. 

Mexico 

Ironmart
      LLC 

Delaware 

Kentuckiana
      Railcar Repair   Storage Facility, LLC 

Indiana 

Lovat Europe
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Lovat
      Holdings Ltd. 

Ontario 

Lovat
      Inc. 

Ontario 

Lovat Trading
      (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Magnum Power
      Products, LLC 

Delaware 

MaK Americas
      Inc. 

Illinois 

MaK
      Beteiligungs GmbH 

Germany 

MaK Power
      Systems Lanka (Private) Ltd. 

Sri
      Lanka 

Mec-Track
      S.r.l. 

Italy 

Metalmark
      Financial Services Limited 

England and
      Wales 

MGE
      Equipamentos e Servicos Ferroviarios Ltda. 

Brazil 

MICA Energy
      Systems 

Michigan 

Motori
      Perkins S.P.A. 

Italy 

Nadri
      Limited 

Ontario 

Necoles
      Investments B.V. 

Netherlands 

P. T.
      Caterpillar Finance Indonesia 

Indonesia 

P. T. Natra
      Raya 

Indonesia 

P. T. Solar
      Services Indonesia 

Indonesia 

Perkins
      Engines (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd 

Singapore 

Perkins
      Engines Company Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Engines, Inc. 

Maryland 

Perkins
      France (S.A.S.) 

France 

Perkins
      Holdings Limited LLC 

Delaware
      and 

                    England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      International Inc. 

Delaware 

Perkins
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Motoren GmbH 

Germany 

Perkins
      Motores do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Perkins Power
      Systems Technology (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines LLC 

Delaware 

Perkins
      Technology Inc. 

Delaware 

Pioneer
      Distribution, Inc. 

South
      Carolina 

Pioneer
      Machinery LLC 

Delaware 

PMHC
      LLC 

Delaware 

Premier
      Automotive Parts Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Progress
      Metal Reclamation Company 

Kentucky 

Progress Rail
      Canada Corporation 

Canada 

Progress Rail
      Holdings Inc. 

Alabama 

Progress Rail
      Raceland Corporation 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Services Corporation 

Alabama 

Progress Rail
      Services de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Progress Rail
      Services Holdings Corp. 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Services LLC 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Services Participacoies Do Brazil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Progress Rail
      TransCanada Corporation 

Nova
      Scotia 

Progress Rail
      Wildwood, LLC 

Florida 

Progress
      Vanguard Corporation 

Delaware 

Przedsiebiorstwem
      Energetyki Cieplncj (Bugaj) Sp. Z o.o. 

Poland 

Qingzhou
      Aoweier Engineering Machinery Co., Ltd. 

China 

Qingzhou
      Shandong Logistics Co., Ltd. 

China 

Railcar,
      Ltd. 

Georgia 

Rapisarda
      Industries Srl 

Italy 

RelayStar
      S.A. 

Belgium 

Richlu
      Holdings Inc. 

Ontario 

S   L
      Railroad, LLC 

Nebraska 

SCM Singapore
      Holdings Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

SEM Service
        Distribution Centre 

United Arab
      Emirates 

Servicios
      Administrativos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Servicios
      Ejecutivos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Servicios
      Logisticos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Shandong SEM
      Machinery Co Ltd. 

China 

Societe
      Industrial Rubber Hoses Sarl 

Tunisia 

Solar
      Turbines Canada Ltd./Ltee. 

Canada 

Solar
      Turbines Europe S.A. 

Belgium 

Solar
      Turbines Incorporated 

Delaware 

Solar
      Turbines International Company 

Delaware 

Solar
      Turbines Malaysia Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Solar
      Turbines Overseas Pension Scheme Limited 

Guernsey 

Solar
      Turbines Services Company 

California 

Solar
      Turbines Services Nigeria Limited 

Nigeria 

Solar
      Turbines Services of Argentina S.R.L. 

Argentina 

Solar
      Turbines Trinidad   Tobago 

Trinidad and
      Tobago 

SPL Software
      Alliance LLC 

Delaware 

Tecnologia
      Modificada, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tokyo Rental
      Ltd. 

Japan 

Turbinas
      Solar de Venezuela, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Turbo
      Tecnologia de Reparaciones S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Turbomach
      (India) Private Limited 

India 

Turbomach
      Asia Ltd. 

Thailand 

Turbomach
      Deutschland GmbH 

Germany 

Turbomach
      Endustriyel Gaz Turbinleri Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited 

Turkey 

Turbomach
      Energie S.A.R.L. 

France 

Turbomach
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Turbomach
      Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Turbomach
      Pakistan (Private) Limited 

Pakistan 

Turbomach
      S.r.L. 

Italy 

Turbomach SA
      - Spain 

Spain 

Turbomach SA
      - Switzerland 

Switzerland 

Turbomach Sp.
      Z o.o. 

Poland 

Turner
      Powertrain Systems Limited 

England and
      Wales 

UK Hose
      Assembly Limited 

England and
      Wales 

United
      Industries Corporation 

Kentucky 

VALA (UK)
      LP 

England and
      Wales 

VALA
      Inc. 

Delaware 

VALA
      LLC 

Delaware 

Veratech
      Holding B.V. 

Netherlands 

West Virginia
      Auto Shredding Inc. 

West
      Virginia 

XPart
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Affiliated Companies  (50% and less
    ownership) 

Name of Company  

Where Organized  

10G
      LLC 

Delaware 

Advanced
      Filtration Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

AFSI Europe
      s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Akoya,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

ARCH
      Development Fund I, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASIMCO
      International Casting (Shanxi) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Cat Rental
      Tohoku Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Institute (Vic-Tas) Pty Ltd 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Trimble Control Technologies LLC 

Delaware 

Energy
      Technologies Institute LLP 

England and
      Wales 

Energyst
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

Evercompounds
      S.p.a. 

Italy 

Firefly
      Energy Inc. 

Delaware 

FMS Equipment
      Rentals Inc. 

Delaware 

Intelligent
      Switchgear Organization LLC 

Delaware 

IronPlanet
      Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

IronPlanet.com,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

K-Lea Co.,
      Ltd. 

Japan 

M.O.P.E.S.A.
      Motores Power, S.A. 

Mexico 

MaK Trainings
      GmbH 

Germany 

MCFA Canada
      Ltd. 

Ontario 

MCFA FSC
      Inc. 

Barbados 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift America de Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. 

Delaware 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Monte Rio
      Power Corporation Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Nagano Kouki
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Nihon Kenki
      Lease Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Polyhose
      India (Rubber) Private Limited 

India 

Rapidparts
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Rensel
      Co. 

Japan 

Societe de
      Electricite d el Bibane 

Tunisia 

Tech Itoh
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Technocast,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tri-County
      Venture Capital Fund I, LLC 

Delaware 

Turboservices
      SDN BHD 

Malaysia 

VirtualSite
      Solutions LLC 

Delaware 

Yaita
      Jusyaryou Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Yeep
      Co. 

Japan 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 ex_23.htm
 CONSENT OF PWC

ex_23.htm 

EXHIBIT
23 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation
by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-43133,
33-46194, 333-22041, 333-43983, 333-57512, 333-71468, 333-136265, 333-135123,
333-135465, 33-40393, 33-39120), Form S-8 (Nos. 2-97450, 333-37353, 33-8003,
333-03609, 333-41464, 333-98197, 333-115837, 333-32853, 333-32851, 333-111355,
333-128342, 333-135467, 333-133275, 333-133266, 333-133265, 333-141548) and Form
S-4 (No. 333-121003) of Caterpillar Inc. of our report dated February 19, 2009
relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

        Peoria,
Illinois 

        February 19,
2009 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 ex_31-1.htm
 302 CERT - CEO

ex_31-1.htm 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

SECTION 302
      CERTIFICATION  

I, James W. Owens, certify
      that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this annual report
      on Form 10-K of Caterpillar Inc.;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report
      does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
      st  ate a material fact
      necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
      which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
      covered by this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the
      financial statements, and othe  r financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
      and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.  

The registrant's other
      certi  fying officer
      and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
      and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
      and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(f) an  d   15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      we have:  

a)  

designed such disclosure controls
      and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
      designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
      relating to the registrant, inclu  ding its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
      particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal control
      over financial reporting, or caused such internal control ov  er financial reporting to be
      designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
      the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
      statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
      accountin  g  
  principles;  

c)  

evaluated the effectiveness of the
      registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
      report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
      and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by th  is report based on such
      evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this report any
      change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that
      occurred during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the ca  se of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting;
      and  

5.  

The registrant's other certifying
      officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent   evaluation of internal control
      over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
      committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
      equivalent function):  

a)  

all significant deficiencies and
      material weaknesses in   the design or operation of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize
      and report financial information; and  

b)  

any fraud, whether or not
      material, that   involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting.  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/ James W.
      Owens  

Chairman of the Board
      and  

                   Chief Executive
      Officer  

(James W.
      Owens)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 ex_31-2.htm
 302 CERT - CFO

ex_31-2.htm 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

SECTION 302
      CERTIFICATION  

I, David B. Burritt, certify
      that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this annual report
      on Form 10-K of Caterpillar Inc.;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report
      does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
      to   state a material
      fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
      under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
      period covered by this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the
      financial statements, and o  ther financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report;  

4.  

The registrant's other
      ce  rtifying officer
      and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
      and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
      and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(f)     and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
      and we have:  

a)  

designed such disclosure controls
      and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
      designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
      relating to the registrant, in  cluding its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
      particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal control
      over financial reporting, or caused such internal control   over financial reporting to be
      designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
      the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
      statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
      accoun  t  ing
    principles;  

c)  

evaluated the effectiveness of the
      registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
      report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
      and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by   this report; based on such
      evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this report any
      change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that
      occurred during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the   case of an annual report) that
      has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting;
      and  

5.  

The registrant's other certifying
      officer and I have disclosed, based on our most rec  ent evaluation of internal control
      over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
      committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
      equivalent function):  

a)  

all significant deficiencies and
      material weaknesses   in the design or operation of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize
      and report financial information; and  

b)  

any fraud, whether or not
      material, th  at
      involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
      registrant's internal controls over financial
      reporting.  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/ David B.
      Burritt  

Vice President
      and  

                   Chief Financial
      Officer  

(David B.
      Burritt)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 12
 ex_32.htm
 906 CERT

ex_32.htm 

EXHIBIT
      32 

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO 

                  18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350 

                  AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

                  SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection
      with the annual report of Caterpillar Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K
      for the period ending December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities
      and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the undersigned
      hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
      Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of our
      knowledge: 

(1) 

The Report
      fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities and Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

February 20,
      2009  

/s/ James W.
      Owens  

Chairman of the Board
      and  

                   Chief Executive
      Officer  

(James W.
      Owens)  

February 20,
      2009  

/s/ David B.
      Burritt  

Vice President
      and  

                   Chief Financial
      Officer  

(David B.
      Burritt)  

A signed original of
this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Caterpillar
Inc. and will be retained by Caterpillar Inc. and furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 13
 ex_99-1.htm
 2008 CEO CERT TO NYSE

ex_99-1.htm 

EXHIBIT
99.1 

Form
Last Updated by the NYSE on April 28, 2006 

NYSE
Regulation 

Domestic
Company 

      Section
303A 

      Annual
CEO Certification 

As the Chief
      Executive Officer of  Caterpillar Inc.
      (CAT)  and as required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock
      Exchange Listed Company Manual, I hereby certify that as of the date
      hereof I am not aware of any violation by the Company of NYSE's corporate
      governance listing standards, other than has been notified to the Exchange
      pursuant to Section 303A.12(b) and disclosed on  Exhibit H  to the Company's Domestic Company
      Section 303A Annual Written Affirmation. 

This
      certification is: 

X 

Without
      qualification 

or 

With
      qualification 

By: 

/s/
      James W. Owens 

Printed
      Name: 

James W.
      Owens 

Title: 

Chairman and
      Chief Executive Officer 

Date: 

July 09,
      2008 

</EX-99.1>

10-K
 23
 form10k_2008.pdf
 FORM 10-K FOR 2008 WITH EXHIBITS

