<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100219_10-K_edgar_data_18230_0000018230-10-000092_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>32681880</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>678009</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2853219</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6120145</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5378186</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5522101</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>242</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000018230-10-000092.hdr.sgml : 20100219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100219124245
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000018230-10-000092
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		30
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CATERPILLAR INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000018230
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIP [3531]
		IRS NUMBER:				370602744
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00768
		FILM NUMBER:		10618847

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3096751000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19860623

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GBRsGwlXgIw5H5DxERBx1bW+OuuJAA1ntgUrxV2rozlyluQNMYIC3tnKGBqRiNor
 G+mjMtEzMWnuXl1n/x8XgA==

 0000018230-10-000092.txt : 20100219

10-K
 1
 form10k_2009.htm
 2009 FORM 10-K

form10k_2009.htm 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class  

Name
      of each exchange 

                     on which
      registered  

Common Stock
      ($1.00 par value) (1)  

Chicago Stock
      Exchange 

                  New York Stock
      Exchange 

9 3/8%
      Debentures due August 15, 2011 

New York Stock
      Exchange 

9 3/8%
      Debentures due March 15, 2021 

New York Stock
      Exchange 

8% Debentures
      due February 15, 2023 

New York Stock
      Exchange 

5.3%
      Debentures due September 15, 2035 

New York Stock
      Exchange 

(1) In
      addition to the exchanges in the United States, Caterpillar common stock
      is also listed on stock exchanges in Belgium, France, Germany, Great
      Britain and Switzerland. 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
      Act:  None 

Indicate by check
mark whether the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.    Yes [     ]   No
[    ] 

Indicate by check
mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes
[    ]   No [     ] 

Indicate by check
mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.   Yes [   ]   No
[    ] 

Indicate by a check
mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter)
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).   Yes [     ]   No
[    ] 

Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
 [   ] 

Indicate by check
mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of
 large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company 
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  (Check one): 

      Large accelerated
filer [     ]   Accelerated
filer [    ]   Non-accelerated filer [ 
   ]  Smaller Reporting Company  [ 
  ] 

Indicate by check
mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes
[    ]   No [     ] 

As of June 30,
2009, there were 621,293,542 shares of common stock of the Registrant
outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant (assuming only for purposes of this computation
that directors and executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately $20.3
billion. 

As of December 31,
2009, there were 624,722,719 shares of common stock of the Registrant
outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant (assuming only for purposes of the computation
that directors and executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately $35.2
billion. 

Documents
Incorporated by Reference 

Portions of the
documents listed below have been incorporated by reference into the indicated
parts of this Form 10-K, as specified in the responses to the item numbers
involved. 

Part
      III 

2010 Annual
      Meeting Proxy Statement (Proxy Statement) to be filed with the Securities
      and Exchange Commission (SEC) within 120 days after the end of the
      calendar year. 

Parts I, II,
      IV 

General and
      Financial Information for 2009 containing the information required by SEC
      Rule 14a-3 for an annual report to security holders filed as Exhibit 13 to
      this Form 10-K (Exhibit 13). 

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS 

Part I  

Item 1.  

Business 

Item 1A.  

Risk
      Factors 

Item 1B.  

Unresolved
      Staff Comments as of December 31, 2009 

Item 1C.  

Executive
      Officers of the Registrant as of December 31, 2009 

Item 2.  

Properties 

Item 3.  

Legal
      Proceedings 

Item 4.  

Submission of
      Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

Part II  

Item 5.  

Market for
      Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities 

Item 6.  

Selected
      Financial Data 

Item 7.  

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations 

Item 7A.  

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Item 8.  

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data 

Item 9.  

Changes in
      and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure 

Item 9A.  

Controls and
      Procedures 

Item 9B.  

Other
      Information 

Part III  

Item 10.  

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

Item 11.  

Executive
      Compensation 

Item 12.  

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   and Related
      Stockholder Matters 

Item 13.  

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence 

Item 14 .  

Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services 

Part IV  

Item 15.  

Exhibits and
      Financial Statement Schedules 

PART
      I       

Item 1 .   Business.      

General  

      The company was
originally organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of
California.  In 1986, the company reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in
the State of Delaware.  As used herein, the term  Caterpillar,   we, 
 us,   our,  or  the company  refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries
unless designated or identified otherwise. 

Principal Lines of Business
/ Nature of Operations  

      We operate in three
principal lines of business: 

1. 

Machinery    A principal line of business which includes the
      design, manufacture, marketing and sales of construction, mining and
      forestry machinery track and wheel tractors, track and wheel loaders,
      pipelayers, motor graders, wheel tractor-scrapers, track and wheel
      excavators, backhoe loaders, log skidders, log loaders, off-highway
      trucks, articulated trucks, paving products, skid steer loaders,
      underground mining equipment, tunnel boring equipment and related parts.
      Also includes logistics services for other companies and the design,
      manufacture, remanufacture, maintenance and services of rail-related
      products.  

2. 

Engines    A principal line of business including the design,
      manufacture, marketing and sales of engines for Caterpillar machinery,
      electric power generation systems, locomotives, marine, petroleum,
      construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications and related
      parts.  Also includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and
      a variety of Caterpillar machine and engine components and remanufacturing
      services for other companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power
      needs ranging from 10 to 21,800 horsepower (8 to over 16 000
      kilowatts).  Turbines range from 1,600 to 30,000 horsepower (1
      200 to 22 000 kilowatts).  

3. 

Financial Products      A
      principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc.
      (Cat Insurance) and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat
      Financial provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and
      dealers for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well
      as other equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also
      extends loans to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides
      various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the
      purchase and lease of our equipment. 

Due to financial
information required by accounting guidance on segment reporting ,  we have also divided our
business into 11 reportable segments for financial reporting
purposes.  Information about our reportable segments, including
geographic information, appears in Note 24    Segment information    of Exhibit
13. 

Other information
about our operations in 2009 and our outlook for 2010, including certain risks
associated with foreign operations, is incorporated by reference
from   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  of Exhibit 13. 

Company Strengths 

Caterpillar is the
leader in construction and mining equipment, and diesel and natural gas engines
and industrial gas turbines in our size range. The company is also a leading
services provider through Cat Financial, Caterpillar Logistics Services Inc.
(Cat Logistics), Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services and Progress Rail Services
Corporation (Progress Rail).  Annual sales and revenues were $32.396
billion in 2009, making Caterpillar the largest manufacturer in its
industry.  Caterpillar is also a leading U.S.
exporter.  Through direct sales of certain products and a global
network of independent dealers, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with
customers around the world.  For almost 85 years, the Caterpillar name
has been associated with the highest level of quality products and
services.  More information is available at  www.CAT.com.  

Page 1  

Competitive
Environment  

      Caterpillar
products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of
highly competitive markets.  In all markets, we compete on the basis
of product performance, customer service, quality and price.  From
time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a
particular industry or region.  Such price discounting puts pressure
on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. 

Outside of the
United States, certain competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to
operating in their home countries or regions. 

Machinery   

The competitive
environment for Caterpillar s machinery business consists of some global
competitors and many regional and specialized local
competitors.  Examples of global competitors include, but are not
limited to, Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of the Volvo Group
AB), CNH Global N.V., Deere   Co., Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Terex
Corporation, J.C. Bamford Ltd. (JCB) and Doosan  Infracore  Co.,
Ltd.  Each of these companies have varying numbers of product lines
that compete with Caterpillar products and each have varying degrees of regional
focus.  John Deere Construction and Forestry Division (part of Deere
  Co.), for example, has numerous product lines that compete with
Caterpillar primarily in North America and Latin America.  Others,
like JCB, offer a limited range of products that compete globally against
Caterpillar. 

The world economy
experienced its worst postwar recession in 2009, causing construction spending
to decline in many countries and mining companies to reduce
production.  End users significantly reduced purchases of equipment
and dealers reduced their reported inventories by over $3.3
billion.  As a result, machinery sales volume declined at an
unprecedented rate.  Governments responded with large infrastructure
programs and central banks reduced interest rates to record lows.  As
a result, the world economy began recovering in the third quarter of 2009 and
the year-on-year decline in sales volume in the fourth quarter was less than in
the prior two quarters. 

Caterpillar s
logistics business provides integrated supply chain services for Caterpillar and
50 other companies worldwide.  It competes with global, regional and
local competitors, including companies such as DHL International, CEVA and
United Parcel Service, Inc.  The unit has grown signifcantly
since its inception in 1987. 

Since its
acquisition by Caterpillar in June 2006, wholly owned subsidiary Progress Rail
has continued its position in North America as a leading provider of a broad
range of products.  Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a
leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products and
services to the North American railroad industry.  The company also
has one of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North
America.  Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is a good
fit with our strategic direction and leverages Caterpillar s global
remanufacturing capabilities. 

Engines    

Caterpillar
operates in a very competitive engine/turbine manufacturing and packaging
environment. The company designs, manufactures, markets and sells diesel, heavy
fuel and natural gas reciprocating engines for Caterpillar machinery, electric
power generation systems, locomotives, marine, petroleum, construction,
industrial, agricultural and other applications.  In addition,
Caterpillar provides industrial turbines and turbine related services for oil
and gas and power generation applications. 

Page
2 

The competitive environment for reciprocating engines in
marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agriculture and electric power
generation systems along with turbines consists of a few global competitors who
compete in a variety of markets that Caterpillar serves, and a larger set of
companies who compete in a limited size range and/or application. Principal
global competitors include, but are not limited to, Cummins Inc., MTU
Friedrichshafen and MTU Detroit Diesel (both are Tognum Group companies), GE
Energy Infrastructure, Siemens Energy and Wartsila Corp. Other competitors, such
as John Deere Power Systems, MAN Diesel SE, MAN Turbo, Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd., Volvo Penta (part of Volvo Group AB), Kawasaki Heavy Industries
and Rolls Royce Group plc compete in certain markets in which Caterpillar
competes. An additional set of competitors, including Generac Power Systems,
Inc., Kohler Co., and  others, are packagers who source engines and/or
other components from domestic and international suppliers and market products
regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution
channels. 

As previously
announced, Caterpillar no longer provides new engines to truck and other
on-highway original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).  Caterpillar will
continue to service our previous on-highway engine customers through Caterpillar
and truck OEM dealer channels. 

Since the
introduction of Caterpillar s ACERT  Technology in 2003, Caterpillar has
continued to focus investment and resources on leveraging this technology. The
building blocks for ACERT Technology are flexible and scalable and are being
applied as needed based on engine platform and application. Caterpillar will add
several new technologies to our portfolio of ACERT Technologies to meet upcoming
Tier 4 Interim/Stage IIIB non-road emissions regulations. We believe ACERT
provides Caterpillar with a valuable foundation to meet emissions and
performance requirements. 

Caterpillar s
remanufacturing business provides services for a variety of products and
services to Caterpillar and other external clients.  The
remanufacturing business competes on a regional basis with similarly sized or
smaller companies.  The company launched the remanufacturing
business  in the 1970s with engines/turbines and is
now one of the world s largest remanufacturers, processing more than two million
units annually and recycling more than 140 million pounds of remanufactured
products each year.   The business continues to grow at rates
well above that of the global economy as a whole.  

Financial
      Products   

Our financial
products business is primarily conducted by Cat Financial. Cat Financial,
incorporated in Delaware, is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of
Caterpillar.  Cat Financial s primary business is to provide retail
and wholesale financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers
around the world.  Retail financing is primarily comprised of
financing of Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines. In addition, Cat
Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and
marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products.  In addition to retail financing,  Cat Financial
provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers and purchases short-term
dealer receivables from Caterpillar and its subsidiaries.  The various financing plans offered by Cat Financial are
designed to increase the opportunity for sales of Caterpillar products and
generate financing income for Cat Financial.  A significant portion of
Cat Financial s activities is conducted in North America.  However,
Cat Financial has additional offices and subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Europe
and Latin America.  

For over 25 years,
Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it
participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends,
product structuring and customer needs. 

In certain
instances, Cat Financial s operations are subject to supervision and regulation
by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be
subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing
requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate credit
granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish maximum
interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require disclosures to
customers and investors, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection,
foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use
and reporting of information related to a borrower s credit
experience.  Cat Financial s ability to comply with these governmental
and legal requirements and restrictions affects its operations. 

Cat Financial s
retail leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 60 percent*)
include: 

Tax leases
      that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial
      accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the
      lease.  For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner
      of the equipment (18 percent*). 

Page 3 

Finance
      (non-tax) leases, where the lessee for tax purposes is considered to be
      the owner of the equipment during the term of the lease, that either
      require or allow the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price
      at the end of the term (22
percent*). 

Installment
      sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to
      purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structure payments
      over time (19 percent*). 

Governmental
      lease-purchase plans in the U.S. that offer low interest rates and
      flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1
      percent*). 

Cat Financial s
wholesale notes receivable, finance leases and installment sale contracts
(totaling 8 percent*) include: 

Inventory/rental
      programs, which provide assistance to dealers by financing their new
      Caterpillar inventory and rental fleets (4
  percent*). 

Short-term
      dealer receivables we purchase from Caterpillar at a discount (4
      percent*). 

Cat Financial s
retail notes receivables (32 percent*) include: 

Loans that
      allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment as
      collateral to obtain financing. 

The retail
financing business is highly competitive, with financing for users of
Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally
commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. Cat Financial s competitors
include Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc., General Electric Capital Corporation
and various local banks and finance companies.  In addition, many of
our manufacturing competitors own financial subsidiaries such as Volvo Financial
Services, Komatsu Financial L.P. and John Deere Credit Corporation that utilize
below-market interest rate programs (subsidized by the manufacturer) to assist
machine sales.  Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide
a broad array of financial merchandising programs around the world to meet these
competitive offers. 

Cat Financial s
financial results are largely dependent upon the ability of Caterpillar dealers
to sell equipment and customers  willingness to enter into financing or leasing
agreements.  It is also affected by, among other things, the
availability of funds from its financing sources, general economic conditions
such as inflation and market interest rates and its cost of funds relative to
its competitors. 

Cat Financial has a
 match funding  policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the
interest rate profile (fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with
the interest rate profile of its receivables portfolio (loans and leases with
customers and dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing
basis.  In connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with
a similar interest rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate
swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate
changes and in some cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds.  For
more information regarding match funding, please see Note 3  Derivative
financial instruments and risk management  of Exhibit 13.  See also
the risk factor titled   Risks to Financial Products Line of Business 
for general risk associated with our financial products business included in
Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. 

In managing foreign
currency risk for Cat Financial s operations, the objective is to minimize
earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net
foreign currency balance sheet positions.  This policy allows the use
of foreign currency forward and option contracts to address the risk of currency
mismatch between the receivable and debt portfolios.  None of these
foreign currency forward and option contracts are designated as a
hedge. 

__________ 

      *Indicates the
percentage of Cat Financial s total portfolio at December 31,
2009.  We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of
unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating
leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat
Financial s concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 8    Finance
receivables  of Exhibit 13. 

Page 4 

Cat Financial
provides financing only when certain criteria are met. Credit decisions are
based on, among other factors, the customer s credit history, financial strength
and equipment application.  Cat Financial typically maintains a
security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical damage
insurance coverage on financed equipment.  Cat Financial finances a
significant portion of Caterpillar dealers  sales and inventory of Caterpillar
equipment throughout the world.  Cat Financial s competitive position
is improved by marketing programs offered in conjunction with Caterpillar and/or
Caterpillar dealers.  Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the
dealer, subsidizes an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat
Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the
financing.  These marketing programs provide Cat Financial with a
significant competitive advantage in financing Caterpillar products. Transaction
processing time and supporting technologies continue to drive Cat Financial in
its efforts to respond quickly to customers and improve internal processing
efficiencies.  We believe Cat Financial s web-based Cat Financ Express  SM 
transaction processing and information tool currently available in the United
States, France, Canada and Australia provides Cat Financial a competitive
advantage in those areas.  Cat Financ Express  SM  is a
web-based tool that provides finance quotes, credit decisions and the ability to
print the appropriate financial documents for end-user signature, all within a
reasonably short time frame. 

Caterpillar
Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a U.S.
insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri
Department of Insurance.  Caterpillar Insurance Company is licensed to
conduct property and casualty insurance business in 49 states and the District
of Columbia and, as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as
well.  The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and
monitors Caterpillar Insurance Company s financial status to ensure that it is
in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial
ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners.  Caterpillar Insurance Company is also licensed to
conduct insurance business through a branch in Zurich, Switzerland and, as such,
is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority. 

Caterpillar Life
Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance
company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department
of Insurance.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company is licensed to
conduct life and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the
District of Columbia and, as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well.
The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the
financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency
requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners.  Caterpillar Life Insurance
Company also provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary
Employees  Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of
salaried retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA. 

Caterpillar
Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a captive
insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary
Authority.   Caterpillar Insurance Co.
Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance Amendment Act of
1995), which primarily insures affiliates and, as such, the Bermuda Monetary
Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of monitoring
compliance with solvency requirements.  

Caterpillar Product
Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty
company domiciled in Missouri. It conducts a machine extended service contract
program in Germany by providing machine extended warranty reimbursement
protection to dealers in Germany. 

Caterpillar
Insurance Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a
Tennessee insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District
of Columbia.  It provides brokerage services for all property and
casualty and life and health lines of business. 

Caterpillar s
insurance group provides protection for claims under the following
programs: 

Contractual
      Liability Insurance to Caterpillar, Caterpillar S.A.R.L and affiliates,
      Caterpillar dealers and OEMs for extended service contracts (parts and
      labor) offered by third party dealers and
OEMs. 

Cargo
      insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar
      products. 

Contractors 
      Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by
      Caterpillar or OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party
      dealers to customers. 

General
      liability, employer s liability, auto liability and property insurance for
      Caterpillar. 

Page 5   

Retiree
      Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the
    VEBA. 

Brokerage
      services for property and casualty and life and health
      business. 

Business Developments in
2009  

Economic
and Market Conditions 

      Our business,
results of operations and financial condition were materially affected by the
conditions in the global economy during 2009. The continuing global economic
crisis and the volatility in the credit and capital markets had a significant
impact on our 2009 sales and revenues and profitability. Overall, the company s
sales and revenues decreased 37 percent from 2008, and profit in 2009 was down
75 percent from 2008. 

In response to the
on-going recession in 2009, we continued executing our  trough  plans, which we
had commenced implementing in 2008, and taking other actions to deal with the
effects of the recession and to reduce costs. These actions resulted in
full-year redundancy costs of $0.75 per share.  In addition, we
focused on maintaining solid profitability and cash flow and improving our
balance sheet. These efforts contributed to our ability to maintain our credit
ratings, maintain our dividend rate, make pension contributions and continue
selective investment in new products and capacity. 

During the second
half of 2009, market conditions in developing economies showed signs of
improvement; the more developed economies also showed signs of improvement but
at a slower pace.  Many countries responded to the recession by
adopting various forms of economic stimulus packages, including allocations for
infrastructure spending, a positive factor for sales of our Machinery and
Engines.  However, the economic recovery remained uneven at the end of
2009 and beginning of 2010. 

Financial
Results and Stockholder Value 

      Full year 2009
results marked a significant decline in sales and revenues and profit for
Caterpillar. The company realized 2009 sales and revenues of $32.396 billion and
profit of $895 million.   Our profit per share in 2009 was $1.43
including redundancy costs of $0.75 per share.  In spite of the severe
economic conditions, we improved our balance sheet and maintained our dividend
rate. The company has not resumed its stock repurchase program since temporarily
suspending it on January 26, 2009. 

Sustainability 

      In 2009, the
company continued its efforts in sustainable development and its commitment to
make sustainable development a  strategic area of improvement  in our enterprise
strategy.  The company was selected as a member of the Dow Jones
Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) for the ninth consecutive year and has
retained its Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Gold Class position in the
Industrial Engineering sector.  DJSI World uses a best-in-class
approach designed to identify best practices across the economic, social and
environmental dimensions of corporate sustainability. 

Caterpillar
Production System (CPS) 

      We have continued
our focus on deploying CPS with 6 Sigma.  Through the implementation
of CPS, we have made continued progress on our safety and quality goals, reduced
inventory and improved cost performance.  CPS continues to be a
fundamental component to help us achieve our near-term goals and our Vision
2020. 

Growth
Initiatives 

       In 2009, the company made selective
investments in growth and expansion opportunities as we focused on positioning
ourselves for economic recovery.  In spite of the challenging economic
conditions, we made progress toward our g  oals of expanding our business in the People s Republic
of China     (PRC) and other emerging markets and moving towards
achieving market leadership positions.  In support of our overall
enterprise strategy and Vision 2020, Caterpillar took the following actions
during 2009:  

In September 2009, Caterpillar
      and Navistar International Corporation (Navistar) finalized a joint
      venture transaction resulting in a new company, NC  2
        Global LLC
      (NC  2  ). Plans to form the 50/50 joint
      venture were first announced in June 2008.  NC  2
        will develop,
      manufacture, market, distribute and provide product support for on-highway
      medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks outside of North America, the
      Indian subcontinent, Myanmar (Burma) and Malaysia.  Initially,
      NC  2
        will focus its
      activities in Australia, Brazil, PRC, Russia, South Africa and Turkey.
      NC  2   s product line will feature both
      conventional and cab-over truck designs and will be sold under both the
      Caterpillar and International (Navistar)
  brands.  

Page 6   

In September
      2009, NC 2 
      and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. Ltd. (Jianghuai) signed a framework
      agreement to potentially establish a joint venture in the PRC that would
      develop, manufacture and sell trucks and truck parts primarily in the PRC
      and certain export markets.  Jianghuai is a manufacturer of
      automobiles and trucks and related parts based in Anhui
      Province,  PRC. The framework agreement contemplates finalizing
      a joint venture by mid-2010. 

In November
      2009, Caterpillar entered into an agreement to acquire JCS Co. Ltd. (JCS),
      a subsidiary of Jinsung T.E.C. Co., Ltd., a South Korea-based manufacturer
      that specializes in producing undercarriage components for earthmoving and
      other off-road machinery. The acquisition of JCS will provide Caterpillar
      proprietary technology to produce engineered seals for undercarriages. The
      JCS manufacturing facility is the first factory for Caterpillar in South
      Korea. The acquisition, subject to regulatory approval, is expected to be
      finalized in early 2010. 

In December
      2009, Caterpillar opened the Wuxi multi-functional research and
      development center in Wuxi, located in Jiangsu Province,
      PRC.  The facility was announced in August 2008 to increase
      technical support for products serving markets in the PRC and the rest of
      the Asia Pacific Region. The Wuxi facility also performs engine and
      component product and process development, validation, localization and
      technological training. Among its many functions, the new facility will
      have an engine test facility with performance and emissions development
      capability, an advanced materials laboratory, an electronics laboratory, a
      system and machine integration facility and validation
      capability.  The Wuxi facility is strategically located near
      Caterpillar s component manufacturing facility and its engine campus. It
      is also near the medium wheel loader and motor grader manufacturing
      facility in Suzhou, PRC. 

In December
      2009, Caterpillar signed a joint venture agreement with China Yuchai
      Machinery Co. Ltd. through its main operating subsidiary, Guangxi Yuchai
      Machinery Co. Ltd. (Yuchai) to establish a company to provide
      remanufacturing services for Yuchai diesel engines and components and
      certain Caterpillar diesel engines and components.  The new
      company will provide remanufactured engines and components to customers
      worldwide.  Yuchai is a key diesel engine manufacturer and the
      largest producer of internal combustion engines in the PRC. Its engine
      product line family includes mini, light, medium and heavy-duty engines
      for the truck, commercial bus, generator and passenger car markets. This
      joint venture, once approved by the applicable regulatory authority, will
      be the first remanufacturing joint venture for Caterpillar in the
      PRC. 

Other
2009 Developments 

In December
      2009, Caterpillar, through its wholly owned subsidiary Cat Logistics,
      announced plans to open a new parts distribution center in Clayton, Ohio.
      The new facility will extend more than 1,000,000 square feet and is part
      of the multi-year expansion and enhancement of the North American Cat
      Parts distribution network. The new facility will provide inbound
      receiving capability close to suppliers and align outbound shipments to
      improve delivery to dealers and customers. It is expected to be fully
      operational in 2011 and is expected to employ 500 to 600
      people. 

In June 2008,
      Caterpillar announced a multi-year $1 billion capacity expansion for key
      facilities in Illinois and other areas.  This included planned
      investments of more than $1 billion from 2008 through 2010 in five of our
      existing facilities in Illinois (East Peoria, Joliet, Decatur, Aurora and
      Mossville).  Through 2009, we have invested about two-thirds of
      this planned $1 billion in those five facilities.  In addition,
      during this period we have also made significant capital investments at
      other Illinois facilities. 

Business
Combinations  

      Information related
to acquisitions and alliances appears in Note 25    Business combinations and
alliances    of Exhibit
13. 

Page 7   

Raw Materials and Component
Products  

      We source our raw
materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically
and internationally. These purchases include unformed materials, rough and
finished parts.  Unformed materials include a variety of steel
products which are then cut or formed to shape and machined in our facilities.
Rough parts include various sized steel and iron castings and forgings which are
machined to final specification levels inside our facilities. Finished parts are
ready to assemble components which are made to either Caterpillar specifications
or to the supplier developed specifications.  We machine and assemble
some of the components used in our machines, engines and power generation units
and to support our after-market dealer parts sales. We also purchase various
goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and product
development processes.  We maintain global strategic sourcing models
to meet our global facilities  production needs while building long-term
supplier relationships and leveraging enterprise spend.  We expect our
suppliers to maintain, at all times, industry-leading levels of quality and the
ability to timely deliver raw materials and component products for our machine
and engine products.  We use a variety of agreements with suppliers to
protect our intellectual property and processes to monitor and mitigate risks of
the supply base causing a business disruption.  The risks monitored
include supplier financial viability, the ability to increase or decrease
production levels, business continuity, quality and delivery. 

Order
Backlog  

      Much of our backlog
is in large engines, gas turbines and mining products. The dollar amount of
backlog believed to be firm was approximately $9.6 billion at December 31, 2009,
$14.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and $17.8 billion at December 31,
2007.  Of the total backlog, approximately $2.5 billion at December
31, 2009, $2.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and $2.5 billion at December 31,
2007, was not expected to be filled in the following year.  The
decrease during 2009 reflects the impact of weak global economic conditions and
our decision, beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2009, to allow
dealers to cancel orders. Our backlog is generally highest in the first and
second quarters because of seasonal buying trends in our industry. 

Dealers  

       Our machines are distributed
principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network ),
51  located in the
United States and 127 located outside the United States, serving 182 countries
and  operating  3,518   places of business, including
dealer rental outlets.  Reciprocating engines are sold principally through
the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in their products. Some of
the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins Engines Company Limited
(Perkins) are also sold through its worldwide network of 129 distributors
located in 165 countries. Most of the electric power generation systems
manufactured by F.G. Wilson Engineering Limited (FG Wilson) are sold through its
worldwide network of 157 dealers located in 180 countries.  Some of the
large, medium speed reciprocating engines are also sold under the MaK brand
through a worldwide network of 19 dealers located in 130 countries. 

Our dealers do not
deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing
of our products are the dealers  principal
business.  Turbines are sold through sales forces employed by the
company.  At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales
representatives. 

The company s
relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard
sales and service agreement.  Pursuant to this agreement, the company
grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the
products in a specified geographic service territory.  Prices to
dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on
transactional pricing in the marketplace.  The company also agrees to
defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support
to the dealer.  The agreement further grants the dealer a
non-exclusive license to use the company s trademarks, service marks and brand
names.  In some instances a separate trademark agreement exists
between the company and a dealer. 

In exchange for
these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale
of the company s products to current and prospective customers in the dealer s
service territory.  Each dealer specifically agrees to employ adequate
sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company s products,
demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company s product improvement
programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe
operation of any of the company s products and maintain detailed books and
records of the dealer s financial condition, sales and inventories and make
these books and records available at the company s reasonable
request. 

Page 8   

These sales and
service agreements are terminable at will by either party upon 90 days written
notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for
bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking
protection from creditors. 

Patents
and Trademarks   

      Our products are
sold primarily under the brands  Caterpillar,   CAT,  design versions of  CAT 
and  Caterpillar,   Solar Turbines,   MaK,   Perkins,   FG Wilson,   Olympian 
and  Progress Rail.   We own a number of patents and trademarks, which
have been obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we
manufacture and the services we provide.  These patents and trademarks
have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value
in the future.  We do not regard any of our business as being
dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. 

Research and
Development  

      We have always
placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to
the development of new or improved machines, engines and major
components.  In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we spent $1,421  million,  $1,728 million and $1,404 million, or
4.4 percent, 3.4 percent and 3.1 percent of our sales and revenues,
respectively, on our research and development programs. R D expense is
expected to increase about 20 percent in 2010, primarily to support product
development programs related to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Tier 4 emissions requirements. 

Employment  

      As of December 31,
2009, we employed 93,813 persons of whom 50,562 were located outside the United
States.  From a global enterprise perspective, we believe our
relationship with our employees is very good.  We build and maintain a
productive, motivated workforce by striving to treat all employees fairly and
equitably. 

In the United
States, most of our 43,251 employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not
subject to any type of employment contract or agreement.  At select
business units, certain highly specialized employees have been hired under
employment contracts that specify a term of employment and specify pay and other
benefits. 

As of December 31,
2009, there were 9,728 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by
collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions.  The
United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
represents 7,570 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement
that will expire March 1, 2011.  The International Association of
Machinists represents 1,627 employees under labor agreements that expire on May
23, 2010 and April 30, 2012. 

Outside the United
States, the company enters into employment contracts and agreements in those
countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary.  The
provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or
customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. 

Sales  

       Sales outside the United States were 69 percent of
consolidated sales for 2009, 67 percent for 2008 and 63 percent  for
2007. 

Environmental
Matters  

      The company is
regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our
use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition
to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the
development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance
with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines.
Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital
expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of
locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state
laws.  When it is reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a
site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against
our earnings.  In formulating that estimate, we do not consider
amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or
others.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not
material and  is included in the line item  Accrued expenses  in Statement
2    Consolidated Financial Position at December 31   of Exhibit 13.  

Page 9   

We cannot
reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of
remediation.  Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages
of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount
for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the
aggregate, will be required. 

Available
Information  

      The company files
electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required
reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials;
ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as
necessary; and any other form or report as required.  The public may
read and copy any materials the company has filed with the SEC at the SEC s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
DC  20549.  The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800)
SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site ( www.sec.gov ) that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The company maintains
an Internet site (www.CAT.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments
to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge
through our Internet site ( www.CAT.com/secfilings )
as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Copies
of our board committee charters, our board s Guidelines on Corporate Governance
Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct and other corporate governance information are
available on our Internet site ( www.CAT.com/governance ).
The information contained on the company s website is not included in, or
incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Additional company
information may be obtained as follows: 

Current
information -  

phone our
      Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080
      (outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen
      to a summary of Caterpillar s latest financial results and current
      outlook, or to request a copy of results by facsimile or mail 

request,
      view, or download materials on-line or register for email alerts at  www.CAT.com/materialsrequest  

Historical
information - 

view/download
      on-line at  www.CAT.com/historical  

Item
      1 A.   Risk
      Factors.      

The statements in
this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be
considered carefully in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.  In addition,
these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The discussion and analysis
contained in the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  and other items in this Form 10-K is forward-looking
and involves uncertainties that could significantly impact
results.  From time to time, we also provide forward-looking
statements in other materials we issue to the public or in the form of oral
presentations to the public.  Forward-looking statements give current
expectations or forecasts of future events about the company.  You can
identify these statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or
current facts and by the use of words such as  believe,   expect,   estimate, 
 anticipate,   will be,   should,   plan,   project,   intend,   could  and
similar words or expressions that identify forward-looking statements made on
behalf of Caterpillar. 

In particular,
these forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions,
prospective products, products  approvals, future performance or results of
current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates,
foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, economic conditions,
potential returns, financial condition and financial results. The statements are
based on assumptions or on known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Although we
believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, we cannot guarantee the
realization of these statements. Achievement of future results is subject to
risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or
unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove
inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or
those anticipated, estimated or projected. Uncertainties include factors that
affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the company and
the markets it serves. 

Page 10   

The company
undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You may, however,
consult any future related disclosures we make on our Form 10-Q or any Form 8-K
report to the SEC. 

The following is a
cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe
are significant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the
aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from
expected or past results. You should note it is impossible to predict or
identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the
following factors to be a complete discussion of risks and
uncertainties. 

Economic Volatility, Global
Economic Conditions and the Economic Conditions of Industries or Markets We
Serve  

      Our results of
operations are materially affected by the conditions in the global economy
generally and various capital markets. Global economic conditions may cause
volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets.  In some
cases, the markets have decreased availability of liquidity, credit and credit
capacity for certain issuers, customers, dealers and suppliers. 

Although we
generally generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses, fund
our capital expenditures, buy back stock, pay dividends and fund our employee
retirement benefit programs, continuing to meet these cash requirements over the
long-term will require substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds,
including capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions,
including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in many of
the markets that we serve, and the success of plans to manage cost increases,
inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact
our ability to generate funds from operations.  Market volatility,
changes in counterparty credit risk, the impact of government intervention in
financial markets and general economic conditions may also adversely impact the
ability of the company to access capital and credit markets to fund operating
needs.  Inability to access capital and credit markets may have an
adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and
competitive position. 

The energy and
mining industries are major users of our machines and
engines.  Decisions to purchase our machines and engines are dependent
upon performance of these industries. If demand or output in these industries
increases, the demand for our products would likely
increase.  Likewise, if demand or output in these industries declines,
the demand for our products would likely decrease. Prices of commodities in
these industries are frequently volatile and change in response to general
economic conditions, economic growth, commodity inventories and any disruptions
in production.  We assume certain prices for key commodities in
preparing our outlooks.  Commodity prices lower than those assumed in
our outlooks have the potential to negatively impact our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 

The rates of
infrastructure spending, housing starts and commercial construction play a
significant role in our results.  Our products are an integral
component of these activities, and as these activities increase or decrease
inside or outside of the U.S., demand for our products may be significantly
impacted, which could negatively impact our results. 

After declining for three
years, U.S. residential housing starts began a modest recovery in the second
quarter of 2009, but remain at historic lows.  Housing permits in the
euro-zone have continued to decline since late 2006, although U.K. housing
orders increased in the fourth quarter of 2009. The situation has been
compounded by a deterioration of mortgage and financial markets and has
negatively impacted our sales in North America and Europe. Historically, housing
starts have been volatile, and these downturns could continue or become more
severe.  Although the U.S. Government, and governments of many other
countries, including countries in Europe, Japan and Australia, has adopted
initiatives to help restore and stabilize mortgage and real estate markets and
the economy generally, there is no assurance that these measures will achieve
the intended effect.  

We expect that the developing
markets (i.e. Africa, Asia/Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East and Russia),
which accounted for a significant portion of our 2009 sales and revenues will
experience growth during 2010.  However, a slower rate of economic
growth in developing markets than anticipated in our outlooks could adversely
impact our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

Page 11   

Changes in Government
Monetary and Fiscal Policies  

Most countries have
established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic
activities, generally by adjusting interest rates.  Interest rate
changes affect overall economic growth, which alter demand for residential and
nonresidential structures, energy and mined products, which in turn affect sales
of our products that serve these activities.  Also, interest rates
affect customers  abilities to finance machine purchases, can change the optimal
time to keep machines in a fleet and can impact the ability of our suppliers to
finance the production of parts and components necessary to manufacture and
support our products.  Our outlooks typically include assumptions
about interest rates in a number of countries.  Interest rates higher
than those contained in our assumptions could result in lower sales than
anticipated and supply chain inefficiencies. 

Economic events
have reduced the availability of liquidity to fund investments in many markets
that we serve.  Central banks and other policy arms of many countries
have implemented various actions to restore liquidity and increase the
availability of credit.  The continuing effectiveness of these and
related government actions is uncertain and could have a material impact on the
customers and markets we serve and our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  Government policies on taxes and spending affect
our business.  Throughout the world, government spending finances much
infrastructure development, such as highways, airports, sewer and water systems
and dams.  Tax regulations determine depreciation lives and the amount
of money users can retain, both of which influence investment
decisions.  Developments more unfavorable than anticipated, such as
declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public spending or
increases in taxes, could negatively impact our results. 

Changes in Price and
Significant Shortages of Component Products  

      We are a
significant user of steel and many other commodities required for the
manufacture of our products.  As a result, unanticipated increases in
the prices of such commodities would increase our costs more than expected,
negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition
if we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through
price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction
programs. 

We rely on
suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the
manufacture of our products.  During the global economic
downturn, we reduced our own production levels and, as a result, our suppliers
experienced significant decreases in demand for their products.  We
anticipate significant volume increases in 2010 and are currently reviewing the
ability of key suppliers to ramp up production.  A disruption in
deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of such components or
commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments
to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe our sources of raw
materials and components products will be generally sufficient for our needs in
the foreseeable future. However, our business, results of operations or
financial condition could be negatively impacted should supply turn out to be
insufficient for our operations. 

In addition, global
economic conditions and the volatility in the credit and capital markets have
caused a significant decline in sales and revenues and restricted access to
liquidity and financing for many businesses. If these conditions continue or
worsen, many of our suppliers  financial viability could be adversely impacted.
As a result, their ability to continue supplying component products for the
manufacture of our products could be significantly undermined, which, in turn,
could negatively impact our ability to meet our customers  demand for our
products and our business, results of operations and financial
condition. 

Environmental
Regulations  

Regulatory Compliance in
General  

      Our facilities,
operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws
and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air,
discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
treatment and disposal of general, non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials.
While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these
environmental laws and regulations, we cannot provide assurances that we will
not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to
existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and
regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 

Page 12   

In particular, our
engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing
exhaust emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state
regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other regulatory agencies around the world.
For instance, national, state or local governments may set new emissions
standards that could impact our products and operations in ways that are
difficult to anticipate with accuracy. Thus, significant changes in standards,
or the adoption of new standards, have the potential to negatively impact our
business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive
position. 

Tier 4 Emissions
Requirements  

      The EPA has adopted
new and more stringent emission standards, including Tier 4 nonroad diesel
emission requirements applicable to the majority of our nonroad machinery and
engine products commencing in 2011.  We previously announced our
intent to make our nonroad engines compliant with the new emission standards,
including the Tier 4 emission requirements, by the stated deadline. We intend to
use certain technology with state of the art integrated systems, as well as the
transitional provisions provided by the regulations in order to comply with
the Tier 4 emissions requirements. 

Although we are
executing comprehensive plans designed to meet Tier 4 emissions requirements,
these plans are subject to many variables, including the timing of our Tier 4
engine development and new machine product introduction.  If we are
unable to meet our plans as projected, it could delay or inhibit our ability to
continue placing certain products on the market, which could negatively impact
our financial results and competitive position.  We are incurring
research and development costs to design products to meet Tier 4
requirements.  We plan to include costs associated with Tier 4
development and production in prices of our products.  The level of
market acceptance of prices for products that meet Tier 4 requirements could
negatively impact our financial results and competitive position. 

Regulation of Carbon
Emissions  

        The potential for
government-mandated reductions of carbon emissions from our facilities and
products is increasing.  Mandatory reductions being considered by many
jurisdictions may take the form of new legislation and/or
regulations.  For example, in the U.S., the EPA has stated that it
plans to promulgate regulations governing carbon emissions from automobiles,
which may lead to regulation of other mobile sources, as well as stationary
sources.  Additionally, the American Clean Energy and Security Act has
passed the U.S. House of Representatives, and similar legislation has been
introduced in the U.S. Senate.  This legislation is also designed to
restrict and reduce carbon emissions from U.S. stationary and mobile sources.
The final details and scope of these legislative and regulatory measures are
unclear and their potential impact is still uncertain, so we cannot fully
predict the impact on the company. Should final legislation or regulations be
adopted imposing significant operational restrictions and compliance
requirements upon us or our products, they could have a material impact upon the
company s capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive
position. 

Failure to Maintain Credit
Ratings  

Caterpillar s and
Cat Financial s costs of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are
affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt
ratings assigned to their debt by the major credit rating
agencies.  These ratings are based, in significant part, on
Caterpillar s and Cat Financial s performance as measured by credit metrics such
as interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well as transparency with rating
agencies and timeliness of financial reporting.  On January 26, 2009,
Moody s Investment Services (Moody's) changed its outlook for the long-term
ratings of the company and Cat Financial to negative from
stable.  Moody s did not alter the  A2  long-term ratings or the
 Prime-1  short-term ratings of the two companies.  On April 21, 2009,
Standard   Poor s Ratings Services (S P) revised its outlook for
the company and Cat Financial to negative from stable, while affirming the  A 
long-term corporate credit rating and  A-1  short-term ratings on the company
and its related entities.  On April 22, 2009, Fitch Ratings, which had
previously rated Caterpillar and Cat Financial slightly higher than Moody s and
S P, downgraded the company and Cat Financial to  A  from  A+  and assigned
a stable rating outlook.  On May 6, 2009, DBRS, which had similarly
rated Caterpillar and Cat Financial slightly higher than Moody s and S P,
downgraded the company and Cat Financial to  A  from  A (high)  and stated that
the trend for the rating was stable. 

Although the company and Cat
Financial have committed credit facilities to provide liquidity, any downgrades
of our credit ratings may increase our cost of borrowing and could have a
further adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including
restricting, in whole or in part, our access to the commercial paper
market.  There can be no assurance that the commercial paper market
will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing for the
company.  An inability to access the capital markets could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

Page 13   

Risks to Financial Products
Line of Business  

Inherent in the
operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its
customers.  The creditworthiness of each customer, and the rate of
delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly
impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, relevant industry
and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and
expertise of the customer s management team, commodity prices, political events
and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. 

Changes in interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions could
have a material adverse effect on Cat Financial s and our earnings and cash
flows.  Because a significant amount of the loans made by Cat
Financial are made at fixed interest rates, its business is subject to
fluctuations in interest rates.  Changes in market interest rates may
influence its financing costs, returns on financial investments and the
valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce its and our earnings and cash
flows.  In addition, since Cat Financial makes a significant amount of
loans in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates could also reduce its and our earnings and cash
flows.  Cat Financial also relies on a number of diversified global
debt markets and funding programs to provide liquidity for its global
operations, including commercial paper, medium term notes, retail notes,
variable denomination floating rate demand notes, asset-backed securitizations
and bank loans.  Significant changes in market liquidity conditions
could impact Cat Financial s access to funding, increase the associated funding
costs and reduce its and our earnings and cash flows.  Although Cat
Financial manages interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and market
liquidity risks through a variety of techniques, including a match funding
program, the selective use of derivatives and a broadly diversified funding
program, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in interest rates, currency
exchange rates and market liquidity conditions will not have a material adverse
effect on its and our earnings and cash flows.  If any of the variety
of instruments and strategies Cat Financial uses to hedge its exposure to these
various types of risk is ineffective, we may incur losses. With respect to Cat
Financial s insurance and investment management operations, changes in the
equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of its investment
portfolio, thus requiring a negative adjustment to earnings. 

The recent
difficult and volatile market conditions have adversely affected the financial
industry in which Cat Financial operates. Cat Financial is significant to our
operations and provides financing support to a significant share of our global
sales. The inability of Cat Financial to access funds to support its financing
activities to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Cat Financial s
liquidity and ongoing profitability are, in large part, dependent upon its
timely access to capital and the costs associated with raising funds in
different segments of the capital markets.  Cat Financial depends and
will continue to depend on its ability to access diversified funding
alternatives to meet future cash flows requirements and to continue to fund its
operations.  A large portion of Cat Financial s borrowings have been
issued in the medium term note and commercial paper markets.  While
Cat Financial has maintained access to key global medium term note and
commercial paper markets, there can be no assurance that such markets will
continue to represent a reliable source of financing for Cat
Financial.  Should global economic conditions deteriorate or access to
debt markets be reduced, Cat Financial could experience materially higher
financing costs and become unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow
its business and/or meet its debt service obligations as they mature, or it
could be required to draw upon contractually committed lending agreements
primarily provided by global banks and/or by seeking other funding sources.
However, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance such
agreements and other funding sources would be available or
sufficient.  Any of these events could negatively impact Cat
Financial s business, results of operations and financial condition. The extent
of any impact on our ability to meet funding or liquidity needs will depend on
several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of any future
market disruptions, the effects of governmental intervention in the financial
markets including the effects of any programs or legislation designed to
increase or restrict liquidity for certain areas of the market, general credit
conditions, the volatility of equity and debt markets, our credit ratings and
credit capacity and the cost of financing and other general economic and
business conditions. 

Should current
levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may also face
a number of other risks in connection with these events, including: 

Market
      developments that may affect customer confidence levels and may cause
      declines in credit applications and adverse changes in payment patterns,
      causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could impact
      Cat Financial s write-offs and provision for credit
  losses. 

Page 14   

The process
      Cat Financial uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure
      requires a high degree of management s judgment regarding numerous
      subjective qualitative factors, including forecasts of economic conditions
      and how economic predictors might impair the ability of its borrowers to
      repay their loans.  Ongoing financial market disruption and
      volatility may impact the accuracy of these
  judgments. 

Cat
      Financial s ability to engage in routine funding transactions or borrow
      from other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all could be
      adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other
      events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor
      expectations. 

Since Cat
      Financial s counterparties are primarily financial institutions, their
      ability to perform in accordance with any of its underlying agreements
      could be adversely affected by market volatility and/or disruptions in the
      equity and credit markets. 

Market Acceptance of
Products  

      Our business relies
on continued global demand for our brands and products.  To achieve
business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers,
OEMs and customers.  This is dependent on a number of factors,
including our ability to manage and maintain key dealer relationships, our
ability to produce products that meet the quality expectations of our customers
and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing
programs.  In addition, our continued success in selling products that
appeal to our customers is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to
both products and operations, and on the availability and effectiveness of legal
protection for our innovation.  Failure to continue to deliver quality
and competitive products to the marketplace, to supply products that meet
applicable regulatory requirements or to predict market demands for, or gain
market acceptance of, our products, could have a material impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. 

In addition, the
global demand for our products generally depends on our customers  ability to
pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on their access to funds. Due to
global economic conditions many of our customers may be experiencing increased
difficulty in generating funds from operations.  Further, due to
capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty, many financial
institutions have revised their lending standards, thereby decreasing access to
capital. If the capital and credit market volatility continues or worsens, the
liquidity of our customers may decline which, in turn, would reduce their
ability to purchase our products. 

Competition  

      We operate in a
highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of the
company s share of industry sales based on our ability to compete with others in
the marketplace.  The company competes on the basis of product
performance, customer service, quality and price. There can be no assurance that
our products will be able to compete successfully with these other companies.
Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive pricing or
product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or
manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively, our
failure to produce our products at a competitive cost or an unexpected buildup
in competitors  new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets, leading to severe
downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment
prices. 

The environment
remains competitive from a pricing standpoint. Our sales outlook assumes certain
price increases that we announce from time to time will hold in the
marketplace.  Changes in market acceptance of price increases, changes
in market requirements for price discounts or changes in our competitors 
behavior could have a material impact on the company s business, results of
operations and financial condition. 

In addition, our
results and ability to compete may be impacted positively or negatively by
changes in our sales mix.  Our outlook assumes a certain geographic
mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales.  If actual results
vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could
be negatively impacted. 

Caterpillar Production
System  

In 2006, we
launched a significant productivity initiative, CPS to improve our
order-to-delivery processes and factory efficiency.  CPS aims to
reduce waste and maximize value for our customers.  Inability or
failure to implement and utilize CPS or other productivity initiatives would
have an adverse impact on our business and our results of
operations.  There can be no assurance that this initiative will be
completed or beneficial to the company, or that any estimated cost savings from
CPS will be realized. 

Page 15   

International Trade
Policy  

Government policies
on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or
tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional
trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the
competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell
products in certain countries.  The implementation of more restrictive
trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new
barriers to entry, in countries in which we sell large quantities of products
and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  For example, a government s adoption of  buy
national  policies or retaliation by another government against such policies
could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 

Risks Due to Debt
Covenants  

      We maintain a
number of credit facilities to support (i) our commercial paper program and (ii)
general corporate purposes (facilities) and have issued debt securities to
manage liquidity and fund operations (debt securities).  The
agreements relating to a number of the facilities and the debt securities
contain certain restrictive covenants applicable to us and certain of our
subsidiaries, including Cat Financial.  These covenants include
maintaining a consolidated net worth (defined as the consolidated stockholder s
equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other
post-retirement benefits balance within accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss)) of not less than $9 billion, limitations on the incurrence of liens and
certain restrictions on consolidation and merger. Cat Financial has also agreed
under certain of these agreements to maintain a leverage ratio (consolidated
debt to consolidated net worth, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average
of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding
calendar months and (2) at each December 31) not greater than 10.0 to 1, to
maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio (profit excluding income taxes,
interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to interest
expense, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four
quarter period then most recently ended) of not less than 1.15 to 1 and not to
terminate, amend or modify its support agreement with us. 

Although we do not
believe any of these covenants presently materially restrict our operations, a
breach of one or more of the covenants could result in material adverse
consequences that could negatively impact our business, results of operations
and financial condition. These consequences may include the acceleration of
amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering of an obligation
to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by
our lenders, refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more
of the facilities or to enter into new facilities or the lowering or
modification of our credit ratings or those of one or more of our
subsidiaries. 

In 2008, we
received the consent of lenders under certain of our facilities to our lower
consolidated net worth of $6.087 billion as of December 31, 2008 and to Cat
Financial s lower quarterly interest coverage ratio of 0.97 as of December 31,
2008.  In consideration of these consents, we agreed to increase the
upper range of interest rates applicable to amounts that may be drawn by us and
Cat Financial under certain of our facilities. 

Dealer/Original Equipment
Manufacturers Sourcing Practices  

      We sell finished
products through an independent dealer network and directly to
OEMs.  Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing
operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future
needs.  Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or
negatively. 

In particular, some
of our engine customers are OEMs that manufacture or could in the future
manufacture engines for their own products.  Despite their engine
manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types
of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products and in
order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company
focus.  However, we cannot assure that these customers will continue
to outsource engine manufacture in the future. Increased levels of production
insourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as
shifts in our customers  business strategies, acquisition by a customer of
another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet
specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign
countries.  A significant reduction in the level of engine production
outsourcing from our OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and,
accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 

Page 16   

Additional Tax Expense or
Additional Tax Exposure  

We are subject to
income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and our
domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution
of income among these different jurisdictions.  Our provision for
income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by
numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower
than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than
anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the
valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and
regulations.  We are also subject to the continuous examination of our
income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax
authorities.  The results of audits and examinations of previously
filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an
adverse effect on the company s provision for income taxes and cash tax
liability. 

Risks to Global
Operations  

      Our global
operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the
U.S. and internationally and in countries with political and economic
instability including, without limitation, Brazil, PRC and India, which exposes
our business operations to certain political and economic risks inherent in
operating globally. These risks include: 

changes in
      local government laws, regulations and
policies; 

imposition of
      currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other
      restraints; 

imposition of
      burdensome tariffs or quotas; 

national and
      international conflict, including terrorist acts;
  and 

political and
      economic instability or civil unrest may severely disrupt economic
      activity in affected countries. 

As a normal
practice, we do not assume such events in our outlooks unless they are already
happening when the outlook is issued.  As a result, the occurrence of
one or more of these events has the potential to negatively impact our business,
results of operations and financial condition. 

Currency
Fluctuations  

      The reporting
currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets,
liabilities, expenses and revenues, are denominated in currencies other than the
U.S. dollar. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate
those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the
applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of
the U.S. dollar vis- -vis other currencies will affect the U.S. dollar amounts
of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has
not changed in their original currency. This could have a significant impact on
our results of operations and financial condition if such increases or decreases
in the value of the U.S. dollar are substantial. 

Risk Due to Funding
Obligations Under Pension Plans  

      We maintain certain
defined benefit pension plans for our employees, which impose on us certain
funding obligations. In determining our future payment obligations under the
plans, we assume certain rates of return on the plan assets and growth rates of
certain costs. Significant adverse changes in credit or capital markets could
result in actual rates of return being materially lower than
projected.  Our cost growth rates may also be materially higher than
projected. These factors could significantly increase our payment
obligations under the plans, require us to take a significant charge on our
balance sheet and, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 

Impact of
Acquisitions  

      We may from time to
time engage in acquisitions involving risks, including failure to successfully
integrate and realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions.  For
example, with any past or future acquisitions, there is the possibility
that: 

The business
      culture of the acquired business may not match well with our
      culture; 

Technological
      and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not
      occur as expected; 

The company
      may acquire or assume unexpected
liabilities; 

Unforeseen
      difficulties may arise in integrating operations and
    systems; 

Page 17   

The company
      may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired
      business; 

Higher than
      expected finance costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade,
      environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any
      jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations;
      and 

The company
      may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer
      bases. 

Failure to continue
implementing the company s acquisition strategy, including successfully
integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. 

In addition, in
order to conserve cash for operations, we may undertake acquisitions that would
be financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or
equity securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could
result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely
affect other leverage measures. We cannot guarantee any such acquisition
financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If
we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or
equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on
the interests of the holders of our common shares. 

Litigation and
Contingency  

      We face an inherent
business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits. We are
involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty
and environmental claims and lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in
and outside of the ordinary course of our business. Although it is not possible
to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit, we believe
these lawsuits and claims will not individually or in the aggregate have a
material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
However, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of
lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. In
addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims,
we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future,
if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any
such claims. 

As required by U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we establish reserves based on
our assessment of such contingencies.  Subsequent developments in
legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss
contingency recorded as a reserve, requiring us to make additional material
payments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations. 

Healthcare Reform
Legislation  

Healthcare reform
is currently a high priority for the U.S. Presidential Administration
and  U.S. Congress. Both the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate have passed
healthcare reform bills.  However, this legislation remains subject to
modification during the process of harmonizing the House and Senate bills and
its content and potential impact remain uncertain.  Should any final
legislation impose significant costs on the company, including, without
limitation, by making government subsidies received for Medicare-equivalent
prescription drug coverage taxable, this could have a material impact upon the
company s results of operations and competitive position. 

Changes in Accounting
Standards  

      Our financial
statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically
revised and/or expanded.  Accordingly, from time to time we are
required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards
Board.  Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to
issue new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting
pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as
well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures.  The impact of
accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is
disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form
10-Q.  An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such
proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore,
their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully
assessed.  It is possible that future accounting standards we are
required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to
our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. 

Page 18   

Natural
Disasters  

The occurrence of
one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes and
other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in a country in which we operate or
in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and
financial performance.  Such events could result in physical damage to
and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities
or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of
component products from some local and overseas suppliers, disruption in the
transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of
our products to our distribution centers. 

Not
applicable. 

1     Will
retire as CEO effective July 1, 2010 and as Chairman effective October 31,
2010. 

        2   Effective
January 1, 2010.  Will become CEO effective July 1, 2010 and Chairman
effective October 31, 2010. 

Item  2.    Properties .      

General
Information  

      Caterpillar s
operations are highly integrated.  Although the majority of our plants
are involved primarily in production relating to our Machinery or
Engines lines of business, several plants are involved in manufacturing relating
to both lines of business.  In addition, several plants are involved
in the manufacturing of components which are used in the assembly of both
machines and engines.  Caterpillar s parts distribution centers are
involved in the storage and distribution of parts for machines and
engines.  Also, the research and development activities carried on at
our Technical Center involve both machines and engines. 

Page 19   

Properties we own
are believed to be generally well maintained and adequate for present
use.  Through planned capital expenditures, we expect these properties
to remain adequate for future needs.  Properties we lease are covered
by leases expiring over terms of generally one to ten years.  We
anticipate no difficulty in retaining occupancy of any leased facilities, either
by renewing leases prior to expiration or by replacing them with equivalent
leased facilities. 

Headquarters and Other Key
Offices  

       Our corporate headquarters are in Peoria,
Illinois.  Additional marketing and operating headquarters are located
both inside and outside the United States including Miami, Florida, San Diego,
California, Geneva, Switzerland, Beijing, PRC, Singapore,  Piracicaba,
 Brazil and Tokyo, Japan.  The Financial
Products Division is headquartered in leased offices located in Nashville,
Tennessee.  

Parts Distribution
Centers  

      Distribution of our
parts is conducted from parts distribution centers inside and outside the United
States. Cat Logistics distributes other companies  products, using both
Caterpillar and non-Caterpillar facilities located both inside and outside the
United States.  We also own or lease other storage facilities that
support distribution activities. 

Technical Center, Training
Centers, Demonstration Areas and Proving Grounds  

      We own a Technical
Center located in Mossville, Illinois, and various other technical and training
centers, demonstration areas and proving grounds located both inside and outside
the United States. 

Manufacturing,
Remanufacturing and Overhaul  

      Manufacturing,
remanufacturing and overhaul of our products are conducted primarily at the
following locations.  These facilities are believed to be suitable for
their intended purposes with adequate capacities for current and projected needs
for existing products. 

Page 20   

Inside
      the U.S. 

Alabama 

Kansas 

Pennsylvania 

Montreal 

Japan 

Albertville 

Fort
      Scott 

Chambersburg 

Surrey 

Akashi 

Montgomery 

Lawrence 

Steelton 

Toronto 

Sagamihara 

Arkansas 

Wamego 

South
      Carolina 

Winnipeg 

Malaysia 

Little
      Rock 

Kentucky 

Greenville 

England 

Kuala
      Lumpur 1  

California 

Ashland 

Jackson 

Barwell 

Mexico 

Gardena 

Corbin 

Lexington 

Desford 

Monterrey 

Mohave 

Danville 

Newberry 

Ferndown 

Nuevo
      Laredo 

Rocklin 

Decoursey 

Summerville 

Peterborough 

Reynosa 

San
      Diego 

Louisville 

Sumter 

Peterlee 

Saltillo 

Colorado 

Mayfield 

Tennessee 

Rushden 

Santa
      Catarina 

Pueblo 

Raceland 

Dyersburg 

Shrewsbury 

Tijuana 

Florida 

Michigan 

Knoxville 

Skinningrove 

Torreon 

Jacksonville 

Menominee 

Texas 

Slough 

Veracruz 

Miami
      Lakes 

Minnesota 

Amarillo 

Stafford 

The
      Netherlands 

Wildwood 

Minneapolis 

Channelview 

Stockton 

Almere 

Georgia 

Owatonna 

De
      Soto 

Wimborne 

s -Hertogenbosch 

Alpharetta 

Mississippi 

Mabank 

Wolverhampton 

Nigeria 

Griffin 

Corinth 

San
      Antonio 

France 

Port
      Harcourt 2  

LaGrange 

Oxford 

Sherman 

Arras 

Northern
      Ireland 

Patterson 

Prentiss
      County 

Waco 

Chaumont 

Belfast 

Thomasville 

Missouri 

Waskom 

Echirolles 

Larne 

Toccoa 

Boonville 

Virginia 

Grenoble 

People s
      Republic 

Illinois 

Kansas
      City 

Petersburg 

Rantigny 

of
      China 

Alorton 

West
      Plains 

Roanoke 

Germany 

Erliban 1  

Aurora 

Montana 

Wisconsin 

Kiel 

Foshan 

Champaign 1  

Laurel 

Hudson 

Rostock 

Qingzhou 2  

Chicago 

Nebraska 

Prentice 

Hungary 

Shanghai 

Decatur 

Alliance 

Wyoming 

G d ll  

Suzhou 

Dixon 

Gering 

Bill 

India 

Tianjin 2  

East
      Peoria 

Lincoln 

Laramie 

Hosur 

Wuxi 

Granite
      City 

Northport 

Rock
      Springs 

Pondicherry 

Xuzhou 2  

Joliet 

Sidney 

Outside
      the U.S. 

Thiruvallur 

Poland 

Mapleton 

South
      Morrill 

Australia 

Indonesia 

Janow
      Lubelski 

Mossville 

Nevada 

Burnie 

Bandung 2  

Radom 1  

Peoria 

Sparks 

Melbourne 

Jakarta 

Sosnowiec 

Pontiac 

North
      Carolina 

Wivenhoe 

Italy 

Russia 

Rochelle 

Clayton 

Belgium 

Anagni 

Tosno 

Sterling 

Franklin 

Gosselies 

Atessa 

Scotland 

Woodridge 1  

Goldsboro 

Brazil 

Bazzano 

Aberdeen 

Indiana 

Morganton 

Curitiba 

Fano 

Switzerland 

Charlestown 

Sanford 

Diadema 

Frosinone 

Riazzino 

East
      Chicago 

North
      Dakota 

Hortolandia 

Jesi 

Tunisia 

Franklin 

West
      Fargo 

Piracicaba 

Marignano 

Sfax 

Lafayette 

Ohio 

Canada 

Milan 

Dayton 1  

Edmonton 

Minerbio 

1  

Facility of
      affiliated company (50 percent or less owned) 

2  

Facility of
      partially owned subsidiary (more than 50 percent, less than 100
      percent) 

Page 21   

Item 3.    Legal
      Proceedings.      

We have disclosed certain individual legal proceedings
in this filing.  Additionally, we are involved in other unresolved
legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent
 of these unresolved actions  involve
disputes related to product design, manufacture and performance liability
(including claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment
issues or intellectual property rights.   Although it is not
possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal
actions, we believe that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate
have a material adverse impact on our consolidated  results of
operations, financial position or liquidity.  

On May 14, 2007,
the EPA issued a Notice of Violation to Caterpillar Inc. alleging various
violations of Clean Air Act Sections 203, 206 and 207.  The EPA claims
that Caterpillar violated such sections by shipping engines and catalytic
converter after-treatment devices separately, introducing into commerce a number
of uncertified and/or misbuilt engines, and failing to timely report
emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is currently engaging in
negotiations with the EPA to resolve these issues, but it is too early in the
process to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with the EPA and,
based upon initial discussions, and although penalties could potentially exceed
$100,000, management does not believe that this issue will have a material
adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
liquidity. 

On February 8,
2009, an incident at Caterpillar s Joliet, Illinois facility resulted in the
release of approximately 3,000 gallons of wastewater into the Des Plaines River.
In coordination with state and federal authorities, appropriate remediation
measures have been taken. On February 23, 2009 the Illinois Attorney General
filed a Complaint in Will County Circuit Court containing seven counts of
violations of state environmental laws and regulations.  Each count
seeks injunctive relief, as well as statutory penalties of $50,000 per violation
and $10,000 per day of violation. In addition, on March 5, 2009 the EPA served
Caterpillar with a Notice of Intent to file a Civil Administrative Action
(notice), indicating the EPA s intent to seek civil penalties for violations of
the Clean Water Act and Oil Pollution Act.  On January 25, 2010, the
EPA issued a revised notice seeking civil penalties in the amount of $167,800,
and Caterpillar is preparing a response to the revised notice.  At
this time, we do not believe these proceedings will have a material adverse
impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
liquidity. 

Item  4.   Submission of
      Matters to a Vote of Security
      Holders.      

Not
applicable. 

PART
      II       

Item  5.   Market for
      Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity
      Securities.      

Information
required by Item 5 regarding our stock is incorporated by reference from the
Supplemental Stockholder Information section of Exhibit 13 under "Common Stock
(NYSE:CAT)   
 Listing Information,       Price Ranges, 
"    Number of
Stockholders  and  Performance Graph: Total Cumulative Stockholder Return for
Five-Year Period Ending December 31, 2009  and from the  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  section of
Exhibit 13 under  Dividends paid per common share.  

Sale of Unregistered
Securities  

Non-U.S. Employee
Stock Purchase Plans  

We have 30 employee
stock purchase plans administered outside the United States for our non-U.S.
employees.  As of December 31, 2009, those plans had approximately
10,700 active participants in the aggregate.  During the fourth
quarter of 2009, approximately 151,000 shares of Caterpillar common stock or
foreign denominated equivalents were distributed under the
plans.  Participants in some foreign plans have the option of
receiving non-U.S. share certificates (foreign-denominated equivalents) in lieu
of U.S. shares of Caterpillar common stock upon withdrawal from the
plan.  These equivalent certificates are tradable only on the local
stock market and are included in our determination of shares
outstanding. 

Page 22   

Distributions of
Caterpillar stock under the plans are exempt from registration under the
Securities Act of 1933 (Act) pursuant to 17 CFR 230.903. 

Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  

No
shares were repurchased during the fourth quarter 2009. 

Other
Purchases of Equity Securities  

Item  6.   Selected Financial
      Data.      

Information
required by Item 6 is incorporated by reference from the  Five-year Financial
Summary  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  of Exhibit 13. 

Item 7.    Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations.      

Information
required by Item 7 is incorporated by reference from  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition 

      and Results of
Operations  of Exhibit 13. 

This Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should
be read in conjunction with our discussion of cautionary statements and
significant risks to the company s business under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this
Form 10-K. 

Item
      7A .  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
      Risk     

Information
required by Item 7A appears in Note 1    Operations and summary of significant
accounting policies,  Note 3      Derivative financial
instruments and risk management,  Note 19    Fair values disclosures  and Note
20    Concentration of credit risk  of Exhibit 13.  Other information
required by Item 7A is incorporated by reference from  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of Exhibit
13. 

Item 8 .   Financial
      Statements and Supplementary
      Data.      

Information
required by Item 8 is incorporated by reference from the  Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  and from the  Financial Statements and Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements  of Exhibit 13.  Other
information required by Item 8 is included in  Computation of Ratios of Earnings
to Fixed Charges  filed as Exhibit 12 to this Form 10-K. 

Page
23 

Item 9.
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
      Financial
Disclosure.    

Not
Applicable. 

Item
       9A.   Controls and
      Procedures.      

Disclosure Controls and
Procedures  

      Under the
supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and
our chief financial officer, our management conducted an evaluation of
the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures; as such term
is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).  Based on this
evaluation, our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the
end of the period covered by this annual report. 

Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

      The management of
Caterpillar Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management assessed
the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework . Based on our assessment we concluded that,
as of December 31, 2009, the company's internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria. 

The effectiveness
of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm. Their report appears on
page A-4 of Exhibit 13. 

Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting  

      During the last
fiscal quarter, there has been no significant change in the company s internal
control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the company s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Item
       9B.   Other
      Information.      

Not
Applicable. 

Page
24 

PART
      III       

Item
      1 0.   Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance.      

Identification of Directors
and Business Experience  

      Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Identification of Executive
Officers and Business Experience  

      Information
required by this Item appears in Item 1C of this Form 10-K. 

Family
Relationships  

      There are no family
relationships between the officers and directors of the company.  All
officers serve at the pleasure of the board of directors and are elected
annually at a meeting of the board. 

Legal Proceedings Involving
Officers and Directors  

      Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Audit Committee Financial
Expert  

      Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Identification of Audit
Committee  

      Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Stockholder Recommendation
of Board Nominees  

      Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Compliance with Section
16(a) of the Exchange Act  

      Information
required by this Item relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Code of
Ethics  

       Our Worldwide Code of Conduct (Code), first published in
1974 and most recently amended in 2005, sets a high standard for honesty and
ethical behavior by every employee, including the principal executive officer,
principal financial officer, controller and principal accounting
officer.  The Code is posted on our website at   www.CAT.com/code   and is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 14 to this
Form 10-K.  To obtain a copy of the Code at no charge, submit a
written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams Street, Peoria,
Illinois 61629-7310.   We will post on our website any required
amendments to or waivers granted under our Code pursuant to SEC or New York
Stock Exchange disclosure rules. 

Item
      1 1.   Executive
      Compensation.      

Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Item
      1 2.   Security Ownership
      of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders
      Matters.      

Information
required by this Item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Page
25 

Information
required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans is included in the following table: 

Item
      1 3.   Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence.      

Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

Item
      1 4.   Principal
      Accountant Fees and
      Services.      

Information
required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2010 Proxy
Statement.  

PART
      IV       

Item
      1 5.   Exhibits and
      Financial Statement
      Schedules.      

(a)         The
following documents are incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13: 

        1.  Financial
Statements: 

Report of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm 

Statement 1
      -  Consolidated Results of
Operations 

Statement 2
      -  Consolidated Financial
Position 

Statement 3
      -  Changes in Consolidated Stockholders 
  Equity 

Statement 4
      -  Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flow 

Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements 

2.  Financial Statement
Schedules: 

All schedules are
      omitted because the required information is shown in the financial
      statements or the notes thereto incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13
      or considered to be
immaterial.  

Page
26 

Page
27 

*  
                Management  contracts and
      compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits
      pursuant to Item 15(b) of this report.  

Page
28 

Form
      10-K 

                  SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
      of 1934, the company has duly caused this report to be signed on its
      behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

CATERPILLAR
      INC. 

                  (Registrant) 

February 19,
      2010 

By: 

/s/James
      B. Buda 

James B.
      Buda,  Secretary  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
      has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
      and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

February 19,
      2010 

/s/James
      W. Owens 

Chairman of
      the Board, Director 

                  and Chief
      Executive Officer 

(James W.
      Owens) 

Vice Chairman
      and Chief 

February  19,
      2010 

/s/Douglas
      R. Oberhelman 

Executive
       Officer -
      Elect/ 

                  Group  President  

(Douglas R.
      Oberhelman) 

February  19,
      2010 

/s/
      Richard P. Lavin 

Group
      President 

(Richard P.
      Lavin) 

February 19,
      2010 

/s/Stuart
      L. Levenick 

Group
      President 

(Stuart L.
      Levenick) 

February
      19,  2010 

/s/Edward
      J. Rapp 

Group
      President 

(Edward J.
      Rapp) 

February 19,
      2010 

/s/Gerard
      R. Vittecoq 

Group
      President 

(Gerard R.
      Vittecoq) 

February 19,
      2010 

/s/Steven
      H. Wunning 

Group
      President 

(Steven H.
      Wunning) 

February  19,
      2010 

/s/David
      B. Burritt 

Vice
      President and Chief Financial Officer 

(David B.
      Burritt) 

February 19,
      2010 

/s/Bradley
      M. Halverson 

Controller 

(Bradley M.
      Halverson) 

February 19,
      2010 

/s/Jananne
      A. Copeland 

Chief Accounting
      Officer   

(Jananne A.
      Copeland) 

Page
29 

Page
30 

<EX-10.4>
 2
 ex_10-4.htm
 SUPPLEMENTAL EMPLOYEES' INVESTMENT PLAN

ex_10-4.htm 

EXHIBIT
10.4 

CATERPILLAR
INC. 

      SUPPLEMENTAL
EMPLOYEES  

      INVESTMENT
PLAN 

(Amended
and Restated as of June 1, 2009) 

ARTICLE
I - DEFINITIONS 

ARTICLE
II - ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 

2.1 

Existing
      Participants 

ARTICLE
III - DEFERRAL CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS 

ARTICLE
IV - VESTING 

ARTICLE
V - INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS 

5.1 

Adjustment of
      Accounts 

5.2 

Investment
      Direction. 

5.3 

Special
      Company Stock Fund Provisions. 

5.4 

Application
      to Beneficiaries 

ARTICLE
VI - DISTRIBUTIONS 

6.1 

General Right
      to Receive Distribution 

6.2 

Amount of
      Distribution 

6.3 

Form of
      Distribution. 

6.4 

Timing of
      Distribution. 

6.6 

Scheduled
      Distributions 

6.7 

Unscheduled
      Distributions 

ARTICLE
VII - SPIN-OFF TO SDCP 

7.3 

Allocation of
      Amounts 

7.5 

Effective
      Date of Spin-Off 

ARTICLE
VIII - ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

8.1 

General
      Powers and Duties 

8.2 

Certain
      Exercise of Discretion Prohibited 

ARTICLE
IX - AMENDMENT 

ARTICLE
X - GENERAL PROVISIONS 

10.1 

Participant s
      Rights Unsecured 

10.3 

No
      Enlargement of Employee Rights 

CATERPILLAR
INC. 

      SUPPLEMENTAL
EMPLOYEES  INVESTMENT PLAN 

      PREAMBLE 

Effective October
14, 1987, Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) established the Caterpillar Inc.
Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan (the  Plan ).  The Plan has
been amended and/or restated on a number of occasions.  By the
execution of this document, the Company hereby amends and restates the Plan in
its entirety, effective as of June 1, 2009. 

ARTICLE
I 

      DEFINITIONS 

1.1             General .  When
a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and
the word or phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall be a term
defined in this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is required
by the context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or phrase is
defined for a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan document: 

(a)                401(k)
Plan     means the
Caterpillar 401(k) Plan, as amended or any successor to such plan. 

(b)                Adopting
Affiliate     means
any Affiliate that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and
which has adopted the Plan.  All Affiliates that adopted the Plan on
or before the Effective Date and that had not terminated such adoption shall
continue to be Adopting Affiliates but no Affiliate that was not an Adopting
Affiliate as of the Effective Date shall be permitted to adopt the
Plan. 

(c)                Affiliate     means a parent business that
controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the
Company. 

(d)                Base
Pay     means the
base salary paid to a Participant as determined in accordance with the
established pay practices of the Company and Adopting
Affiliates.  Base Pay shall include any lump-sum base salary
adjustment and any variable base pay. 

(e)                BFC     means the Benefit Funds
Committee of the Company, which is the committee formed by resolution of the
Board of Directors of the Company, and which has the responsibility and
authority to ensure the proper operation and management of the financial aspects
of the 401(k) Plan. 

(f)                Board     means the Board of Directors
of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board. 

(g)                Code     means the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated
thereunder. 

(h)                Company     means Caterpillar Inc., and,
to the extent provided in Section 10.8 ( Successors ) below,
any successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or
consolidation into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially
all of the assets of the Company. 

(i)                Company
Stock     means
common stock issued by the Company. 

(j)                Company
Stock Fund     means
the Investment Fund described in Section 5.3 ( Special Company Stock Fund
Provisions ). 

(k)              Deferral
Credits     means
the deferral credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.2
( Deferral
Credits ). 

(l)                Director     means the Company s Director
of Compensation + Benefits. 

(m)                Disability 
or  Disabled    
means that a Participant is  totally and permanently disabled  and eligible to
receive long-term disability benefits pursuant to the terms and provisions of
the long-term disability plan sponsored by the Company or an Affiliate in which
the Participant participates. 

(n)                Effective
Date     means March
25, 2007. 

(o)                Eligible
Pay     means Base
Pay minus any deferral credits made pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred
Employees  Investment Plan. 

(p)                ERISA     means the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any
regulations promulgated thereunder. 

(q)                Investment
Fund     means the
notional investment funds established by the terms of the Plan pursuant to
Article V ( Investment of
Accounts ). 

(r)                Matching
Credits     means
the matching credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.3
( Matching
Credits ). 

(s)                Participant     means an employee of the
Company or any Adopting Affiliate who had satisfied the eligibility requirements
for participation in the Plan as of the Effective Date and who, as of such date,
has amounts credited to his accounts under this Plan. 

(t)                Plan     means the Caterpillar Inc.
Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan, as set forth herein and as it may be
amended from time to time. 

(u)              Plan
Administrator   means the Director. 

(v)                Plan
Year     means the
calendar year. 

(w)                Post-1996
Deferrals     means
the Deferral Credits made by a Participant on and after January 1, 1997 and
before January 1, 2005 (including the earnings/losses thereon). 

(x)                Post-2004
Deferrals     means
the Deferral Credits and Matching Credits made by a Participant on and after
January 1, 2005 determined pursuant to Section 7.2 ( Amounts
Spun-Off ). 

(y)                SDCP     means the Caterpillar Inc.
Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended. 

(z)                Valuation
Date     means each
day of the Plan Year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for
trading. 

1.2             Construction .  The
masculine gender, when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender
(and vice versa), and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan
clearly states to the contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the
purpose of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of
the Plan.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any
reason invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full
force and effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be
construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois without
regard to conflict of law principles and shall be administered according to the
laws of such state, except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other
Federal law. 

ARTICLE
II 

      ELIGIBILITY
AND PARTICIPATION 

2.1             Existing
Participants .  Each individual who was a Participant in the
Plan as of the Effective Date shall continue as such, subject to the provisions
hereof. 

2.2             New
Participants .  No individual shall become eligible to
participate in the Plan after the Effective Date. 

ARTICLE
III 

      DEFERRAL
CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS 

3.1             Credits
Ceased .  Effective as of March 26, 2007, all credits (other
than credits associated with the adjustment of accounts pursuant to Section 5.1
( Adjustment of
Accounts ) to the Plan shall cease.  Participants shall not be
permitted to make Deferral Credits and the Plan Administrator shall no longer
allocate Matching Credits to Participants  accounts. 

3.2             Deferral
Credits .  Immediately prior to March 26, 2007, Participants
were permitted to defer the receipt of 6% of the Eligible Pay otherwise payable
to the Participant by the Company or an Adopting Affiliate in any Plan
Year.  A Participant s election to make Deferral Credits only applied
to the Eligible Pay that was in excess of the dollar limit imposed by Section
401(a)(17) of the Code during that Plan Year.  The deferrals made
prior to March 26, 2007 were subject to the provisions of the Plan as in effect
at the time the deferral election was made and such uniform and
non-discriminatory rules as were adopted by the Plan Administrator in that
regard. 

3.3             Matching
Credits .  For periods ending on or before the Effective Date,
the Plan Administrator allocated matching credits to the Participant s accounts
in an amount equal to 100% of the Participant s
Deferral  Credits. 

ARTICLE
IV 

      VESTING 

4.1             Vesting .  Subject
to Section 10.1 ( Participant s Rights
Unsecured ), each Participant shall at all times be fully vested in all
amounts credited to or allocable to his accounts hereunder and his rights and
interest therein shall not be forfeitable. 

ARTICLE
V 

      INVESTMENT
OF ACCOUNTS 

5.1             Adjustment
of Accounts .  Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in the
Plan, as of each Valuation Date, each Participant s accounts will be adjusted to
reflect the positive or negative rate of return on the Investment Funds selected
by the Participant pursuant to Section 5.2(b) ( Investment Direction -
Participant Directions ).  The rate of return will be determined
by the Plan Administrator pursuant to Section 5.2(f) ( Investment Direction  
Investment Performance ) and will be credited or charged in accordance
with policies applied uniformly to all Participants. 

5.2             Investment
Direction . 

(a)             Investment
Funds .  Each Participant may direct the notional investment of
amounts credited to his Plan accounts in one or more of the Investment
Funds.  The Investment Funds shall, at all times, be notional funds
that track the returns of the investment funds selected by the BFC for purposes
of the 401(k) Plan and made available to 401(k) Plan participants. In addition,
the Investment Funds shall, at all times, include a Company Stock Fund as
described in Section 5.3 ( Special Company Stock Fund
Provisions ).  Neither the Company, each Adopting Affiliate, the
Plan Administrator, the BFC, nor any other party shall have any responsibility,
duty of care (whether express or implied) or liability to any Participant in
regards to designation of the Investment Funds as set forth in this Section
5.2(a). 

(b)             Participant
Directions .  Each Participant may direct that all of the
amounts attributable to his accounts be invested in a single Investment Fund or
may direct that whole percentage increments of his accounts be invested in such
fund or funds as he shall desire in accordance with such procedures as may be
established by the Plan Administrator.  Unless the Plan Administrator
prescribes otherwise, such procedures generally shall mirror the procedures
established under the 401(k) Plan for participant investment
direction. 

(c)             Changes
and Intra-Fund Transfers .  Participant investment directions
may be changed, and amounts may be transferred from one Investment Fund to
another, in accordance with the procedures established by the Plan
Administrator.  The designation will remain in effect until changed by
the timely submission of a new designation by the Participant. 

(d)             Default
Selection .  In the absence of any designation by the
Participant, such Participant will be deemed to have directed the notional
investment of his accounts in the Investment Fund that tracks the return of the
401(k) Plan investment fund that is designated by the BFC as the  default 
investment fund for purposes of the 401(k) Plan. 

(e)              Impact
of Election .  The Participant s selection of Investment Funds
shall serve only as a measurement of the value of the Participant s Accounts
pursuant to Section 5.1 ( Adjustment of
Accounts ) and this Section 5.2.  None of the Company, the
BFC, or the Plan Administrator are required to actually invest a Participant s
accounts in accordance with the Participant s selections. 

(f)             Investment
Performance .  Accounts shall be adjusted on each Valuation Date
to reflect investment gains and losses as if the accounts were invested in the
Investment Funds selected by the Participants in accordance with this
Section 5.2 and charged with any and all reasonable expenses as provided in
paragraph (g) below.  The earnings and losses determined by the Plan
Administrator in good faith and in his discretion pursuant to this Section 5.2
shall be binding and conclusive on the Participant, the Participant s
beneficiary and all parties claiming through them. 

(g)             Charges .  The
Plan Administrator may (but is not required to) charge Participants  accounts
for the reasonable expenses of administration including, but not limited to,
carrying out and/or accounting for investment instructions directly related to
such accounts. 

5.3             Special
Company Stock Fund Provisions . 

(a)             General .  A
Participant s interest in the Company Stock Fund shall be expressed in whole and
fractional notional units of the Company Stock Fund.  The Company
Stock Fund shall track an investment in Company Stock in the same manner as the
401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Accordingly, the value of a unit in
the Plan s Company Stock Fund shall be the same as the value of a unit in the
401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and to the extent that a company stock fund is no longer maintained under the
401(k) Plan, the Plan Administrator shall establish such rules and procedures as
are necessary to maintain the Company Stock Fund hereunder. 

(b)             Investment
Directions .  A Participant s ability to direct investments into
or out of the Company Stock Fund shall be subject to such procedures as the Plan
Administrator may prescribe from time to time to assure compliance with Rule
16b-3 promulgated under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and other applicable requirements.  Such procedures also may
limit or restrict a Participant s ability to make (or modify previously made)
deferral and distribution elections pursuant to Articles III ( Deferral Credits and
Matching Credits ) and VI ( Distributions ),
respectively.  In furtherance, and not in limitation, of the
foregoing, to the extent a Participant acquires any interest in an equity
security under the Plan for purposes of Section 16(b), the Participant shall not
dispose of that interest within six months, unless specifically exempted by
Section 16(b) or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. 

(c)             Compliance
with Securities Laws .  Any elections to transfer amounts from
or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be
subject to all applicable securities law requirements, including but not limited
to the last sentence of paragraph (b) above and Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the
Securities Exchange Commission.  To the extent that any election
violates any securities law requirement or the Company s stock trading policies
and procedures, the election shall be void. 

(d)             Compliance
with Company Trading Policies and Procedures .  Any elections to
transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other
Investment Fund, shall be subject to all Company Stock trading policies
promulgated by the Company.  To the extent that any election violates
any such trading policy or procedures, the election shall be void. 

5.4             Application
to Beneficiaries .  Following the death of a Participant, the
term  Participant  in this Article V shall refer to the Participant s
beneficiary described in Section 6.5 ( Payment Upon
Death ). 

ARTICLE
VI 

      DISTRIBUTIONS 

6.1             General
Right to Receive Distribution .   Following termination of
employment with the Company, death or Disability, the Participant s accounts
will be distributed in the manner and at the time provided in Sections 6.3
( Form of
Distribution ) and 6.4 ( Timing of
Distribution ) or Section 6.5 ( Payment Upon Death ),
as applicable.  A transfer of a Participant from the Company or any
Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be deemed to be a
termination of employment with the Company for purposes of this Article
VI. 

6.2             Amount of
Distribution .  The amount distributed to a Participant shall be
based on the vested amounts credited to the Participant s accounts as of the
Valuation Date immediately preceding the date of the
distribution.  Amounts shall be valued at the fair market value on the
relevant Valuation Date determined pursuant to uniform and non-discriminatory
procedures established by the Plan Administrator. 

6.3             Form of
Distribution . 

(a)             Default
Form of Distribution .  Accounts shall be distributed in cash in
a single lump-sum payment. 

(b)             Optional
Form of Distribution .  A Participant may elect to receive his
distribution in the form of quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash installments
for a period of up to fifteen years by filing an election with the Plan
Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second
year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant
to Section 6.4 ( Timing
of Distribution ).  If an election pursuant to this paragraph
(b) of this Section 6.3 cannot be honored because it was not timely filed,
distributions shall be made in accordance with the most recent valid election
made by the Participant that precedes the invalid election.  If no
such election exists, distributions shall be made in a single Lump-Sum in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.3. 

(c)             Change of
Election .  A Participant may change an installment distribution
election by filing a new installment distribution election with the Plan
Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second
year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant
to Section 6.4 ( Timing
of Distribution ).  There shall be no limitation on the number
of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance with this
paragraph (c). 

6.4             Timing of
Distribution . 

(a)             Default
Timing of Distribution .  Accounts shall be distributed within
an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s
termination of employment, death or Disability. 

(b)             Deferral
of Distribution .  A Participant may elect to defer the
distribution of his accounts beyond his termination of employment, death or
Disability by filing an election with the Plan Administrator: (1) while the
Participant is employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (2) before the last
Company business day of November in the year prior to the year during which the
Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability
occurs.  If an election pursuant to this paragraph (b) cannot be
honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made in
accordance with the most recent valid election made by the Participant that
precedes the invalid election.  If no such election exists,
distributions shall be made within an administratively reasonable period of time
following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4. 

(c)             Change of
Election .  An election made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
Section 6.4 or election made effective as a result of paragraph (e)(1) of this
Section 6.4 may be changed by the Participant by filing a new election with the
Plan Administrator: (1) while the Participant is employed by the Company or an
Adopting Affiliate and (2) before the last Company business day of November in
the year prior to the year during which the Participant s termination of
employment, death or Disability occurs.  There shall be no limitation
on the number of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance
with this paragraph (c). 

(d)             Date
Elected By Participant .  The date elected by a Participant
pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 must be the first day of
any calendar quarter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if as of the
Effective Date, a Participant had made an election whereby the date of
distribution elected is not the first day of a calendar quarter, such election
shall be honored unless and until the Participant initiates a change to the
timing of distribution pursuant to this Section 6.4 or the form of distribution
pursuant to Section 6.3 ( Form of
Distribution ). 

(e)             Revocation
of Election . 

(1)             Automatic
Revocation .  If, as of the distribution date elected by the
Participant pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 the
Participant, is: (i) employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (ii) not
Disabled, such election shall be automatically revoked and distributions shall
be made within an administratively reasonable period of time following the
Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the distribution date is automatically revoked pursuant to this paragraph (e)(1)
and the distribution was to be made in the form of cash installments pursuant to
Section 6.3 ( Form of
Distribution ), the date of distribution shall be the first day of the
next calendar quarter that is within an administratively feasible period of time
following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Nothing contained
in this paragraph (e)(1) shall prevent a Participant from changing his election
pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 6.4. 

(2)             Election
Irrevocable Following Termination of Employment .  At all times
following the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or an
Affiliate, the Participant s elections made pursuant to this Section 6.4 shall
be irrevocable. 

6.5             Payment
Upon Death . 

(a)             Beneficiary
Designation .  If a Participant should die before receiving a
full distribution of his Plan accounts, distribution shall be made to the
beneficiary designated by the Participant, in accordance with such uniform rules
and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to
time.  If a Participant has not designated a beneficiary, or if no
designated beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, then the
Participant s beneficiary shall be that person or persons entitled to receive
distributions of the Participant s accounts under the 401(k) Plan. 

(b)             Timing
and Form of Payment to Beneficiary . 

(1)             Payments
Commenced at Time of Death .  If, at the time of the
Participant s death, installment payments of the Participant s accounts have
commenced pursuant to this Article VI, such payments shall continue to the
Participant s beneficiary in the same time and the same form as if the
Participant has remained alive until the last installment payment was scheduled
to be made. 

(2)             Payments
Not Commenced at Time of Death . 

(i)             Default .  If,
at the time of the Participant s death, payments of the Participant s accounts
have not commenced pursuant to this Article VI, the distributions made pursuant
to this Section 6.5 shall be made to the Participant s beneficiary in accordance
with the then current and valid distribution elections (as to timing and form)
made by the Participant (or, in the absence of such distribution elections, in
accordance with the  default  provisions of this Article VI). 

(ii)             Separate
Election .  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything herein to
the contrary, a Participant may make separate elections regarding the timing and
form of payments to his beneficiary upon his death.  Such separate
beneficiary elections shall be valid only if they meet the requirements of
Section 6.3 ( Form of
Distribution ) and Section 6.4 ( Timing of
Distribution ).  In addition, such separate beneficiary
elections may be changed or revoked in accordance with Section 6.3 ( Form of Distribution )
and Section 6.4 ( Timing of
Distribution ). 

(3)             No
Changes Permitted by Beneficiary .  In no event shall a
beneficiary be permitted to change the time and/or form of payment relating to a
Participant s accounts following such Participant s death either prior to or
following such Participant s death. 

6.6             Scheduled
Distributions  .   The Plan as in
effect prior to the Effective Date permitted a Participant to elect, at the time
the Participant elected to make Deferral Credits, to schedule a distribution
date for all or a portion of such Deferral Credits provided: (a) the
distribution date scheduled by the Participant was the first day of any calendar
quarter and (b) the distribution date scheduled by the Participant was at least
four years later than the last day of the Plan Year that includes the Deferral
Credits to which the election relates.  As of the Effective Date, no
Participant had such a scheduled distribution election on file with the Plan
Administrator.  Because Deferral Credits have ceased pursuant to
Section 3.1 ( Credits
Ceased ) and because there are no scheduled distribution elections on
file, the scheduled distribution provisions of the Plan as in effect prior to
the Effective Date are now without effect. 

6.7             Unscheduled
Distributions  .   Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, a Participant may elect to receive a lump-sum
cash distribution of his Plan accounts at any time while employed by the Company
or an Affiliate in accordance with this Section 6.7 and the uniform and
non-discriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator. 

(a)             Amount of
Distribution .  A Participant may elect to receive five percent
to one hundred percent (designated in whole percentages by the Participant) of
his Post-1996 Deferrals.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event
shall the amount of the distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 be less
than $10,000.00 (determined prior to the application of the forfeiture described
in paragraph (b) below). 

(b)             Forfeiture .   Any
distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall be subject to a forfeiture
equal to 10% of the amount elected. 

(c)             Election
Applies to DEIP .  An election for an unscheduled distribution
pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall also apply as an election for an unscheduled
distribution pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Caterpillar Inc.
Deferred Employees  Investment Plan. 

6.8             Withholding .  All
distributions will be subject to all applicable tax and withholding
requirements. 

ARTICLE
VII 

      SPIN-OFF
TO SDCP 

7.1             General .  In
response to the enactment of Section 409A of the Code and pursuant to
transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department
of Treasury, Deferrals Credits and Matching Credits have been frozen and all
amounts deferred and vested on and before December 31, 2004 are  grandfathered 
and thus are not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.  The
Deferral Credits and Matching Credits made pursuant to the Plan from January 1,
2005 through the Effective Date (including the earnings/losses thereon) will be
spun-off to SDCP as provided in this Article VII. 

7.2             Amounts
Spun-Off .  All amounts credited to participant accounts
pursuant to this Plan on or after January 1, 2005 and through the Effective Date
and not fully distributed on or before April 1, 2007 shall be spun-off and
allocated to Plan accounts as provided in Section 7.3 ( Allocation of
Amounts ).  The amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2005 shall
be determined in accordance with Q A-17 of I.R.S. Notice 2005-1 and any
other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the
Department of Treasury. 

7.3             Allocation
of Amounts .  A Participant s Post-2004 Deferrals shall be
allocated to the Participant s accounts in SDCP as provided
therein. 

7.4             Deferral
Elections .  Deferral elections made by participants pursuant to
the Plan for amounts to be deferred in 2007 following the Effective Date shall
apply to SDCP as provided therein. 

7.5             Effective
Date of Spin-Off .  The spin-off described in this Article VII
shall be effective as of 11:59:59 P.M. on the Effective Date. 

ARTICLE
VIII 

      ADMINISTRATION
OF THE PLAN 

8.1             General
Powers and Duties .  The following list of powers and duties is
not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan Administrator shall, in addition,
exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as he may deem
advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless such powers or duties are
expressly assigned to another pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan. 

(a)             General .  The
Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and
discretion given to him in the Plan document and by applicable law and his
decisions and actions shall be final and conclusive as to all persons affected
thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the
Plan Administrator with all data and information that the Plan Administrator may
reasonably require in order to perform his functions.  The Plan
Administrator may rely without question upon any such data or
information. 

(b)             Disputes .  Any
and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be
referred to the Plan Administrator and his decision shall be
final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning,
interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the
Plan Administrator shall be final. 

(c)             Agents .  The
Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist him and
he may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The
Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to
be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or
certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 

(d)             Insurance .  At
the Director s request, the Company shall purchase liability insurance to cover
the Director in his activities as the Plan Administrator. 

(e)             Allocations .  The
Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to
others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator
has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is
not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such
responsibility has been allocated. 

(f)             Records .  The
Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records
by its agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant
data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the
Plan. 

(g)             Interpretations .  The
Plan Administrator, in his sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the
provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 

(h)             Electronic
Administration .  The Plan Administrator shall have the
authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to,
electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which
Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for
participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan
Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions
or forms submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by
the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan
calling for the submission of a written election, direction or
form. 

(i)             Accounts .  The
Plan Administrator shall combine the various accounts of a Participant if he
deems such action appropriate.  Furthermore, the Plan Administrator
shall divide a Participant s accounts into sub-accounts if he deems such action
appropriate. 

(j)             Delegation .  The
Plan Administrator may delegate his authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in
his sole and absolute discretion. 

8.2             Certain
Exercise of Discretion Prohibited .  Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, the Plan Administrator (or any other individual or
entity to whom the power to exercise discretion hereunder is granted) shall not
exercise the discretion granted in a manner that would create a  material
modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable
guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury)
to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3, 2004. 

8.3             Claims
Procedures .  Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in
accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan
Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA. 

ARTICLE
IX 

      AMENDMENT 

9.1             Amendment .  The
Company shall have the right at any time to amend, in whole or in part, any or
all of the provisions of this Plan by action of the Board of Directors of the
Company; provided, however, if the amendment does not constitute a reallocation
of fiduciary duties among those designated to act under the Plan or an
allocation of fiduciary duties to committees and/or persons not previously
designated to act under the Plan, then the Company s Vice President, Human
Services Division, shall have the authority to amend the Plan, acting in
consultation with the Company s Chairman of the Board and the appropriate Group
President(s) of the Company (or in consultation with the full Board of Directors
if the Chairman of the Board deems it necessary and appropriate).  The
Company s Vice President, Human Services Division, may designate any other
officer(s) of the Company as having authority to amend the Plan in the Vice
President s absence, which officer shall also act in consultation with the
Company s Chairman of the Board and the appropriate Group President(s) of the
Company (or in consultation with the full Board of Directors if the Chairman of
the Board deems it necessary and appropriate). 

9.2             Effect of
Amendment .  Any amendment of the Plan shall not directly or
indirectly reduce the balance of any Plan account as of the effective date of
such amendment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything in this
Plan to the contrary, any amendment to the Plan effective on or after October 3,
2004 that creates a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice
2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service
or the Department of Treasury) shall only be effective if such amendment
expressly states an intent by the Company to materially modify the Plan (and
thus subject it to Section 409A of the Code). 

9.3             Termination .  To
the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company expressly reserves the right
to terminate the Plan at any time. 

ARTICLE
X 

      GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

10.1             Participant s
Rights Unsecured .  The Plan at all times shall be entirely
unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating
any assets of the Company for payment of any distributions
hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her designated
beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim
against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor a
designated beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets
of the Company.  All amounts credited to a Participant s accounts
hereunder shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of
by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem
appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from
establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be
available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of
the Company s insolvency. 

10.2             No
Guaranty of Benefits .  Nothing contained in the Plan shall
constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or entity that the
assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit
hereunder. 

10.3             No
Enlargement of Employee Rights .  No Participant shall have any
right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in accordance with the
terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan shall not be construed
to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Company
or an Adopting Affiliate. 

10.4             Section
409A.  

(a)             Material
Modification .  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, this amendment and restatement of the Plan does not, and is not
intended to, create a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice
2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service
or the Department of Treasury) to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3,
2004 which would subject the Plan to the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code.  This document shall be construed and interpreted in a manner
consistent with that intention. 

(b)             Good
Faith Compliance .  The Deferral Credits and Matching Credits
made from January 1, 2005 through the Effective Date (including the
earnings/losses thereon) have been administered pursuant to the Plan in  good
faith  compliance with Section 409A of the Code pursuant to transitional
guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of
Treasury. 

10.5             Spendthrift
Provision .  No interest of any person or entity in, or right to
receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale,
transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or
encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such interest or right to receive a
distribution be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction
of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity,
including claims in bankruptcy proceedings.  This Section shall not
preclude arrangements for the withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or
benefit payments, arrangements for the recovery of benefit overpayments,
arrangements for the transfer of benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements
for direct deposit of benefit payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan
association or credit union (provided that such arrangement is not part of an
arrangement constituting an assignment or alienation). 

10.6             Domestic
Relations Orders .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to
the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, the Participant s accounts may
be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic Relations Order  (as such term
is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), subject to such uniform rules
and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to
time. 

10.7             Incapacity
of Recipient .  If the Plan Administrator is served with a court
order holding that a person entitled to a distribution under the Plan is
incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such
distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone payment until such time as a
claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal
representative of such person.  The Plan Administrator is under no
obligation to inquire or investigate as to the competency of any person entitled
to a distribution.  Any payment to an appointed guardian or other
legal representative under this Section shall be a payment for the account of
the incapacitated person and a complete discharge of any liability of the
Company and the Plan therefore. 

10.8             Successors .  The
Plan shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon
the heirs, beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who
become Participants hereunder. 

10.9             Limitations
on Liability .  Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions
of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the Company, nor any individual
acting as the Plan Administrator s, or the Company s employee, agent, or
representative shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant,
beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred
in connection with the Plan. 

10.10             Conflicts .  If
any person holds a position under the Plan through which he or she is charged
with making a decision about the administration of his or her own (or any
immediate family member s) Plan participation, including, without limitation,
decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of
his or her Plan investments, then such person shall be recused and the decision
shall be made by the Plan Administrator.  If a decision is required
regarding the administration of the Plan Administrator s Plan participation,
including without limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account
valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan investments, such decision
shall be made by the Company s Vice President, Human Services Division .    Nothing in this Section 10.10 shall be
construed to limit a Participant s or the Plan Administrator s ability to make
decisions or elections with regard to his or her participation in the Plan in
the same manner as other Participants.  

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 3
 ex_10-5.htm
 EXECUTIVE SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

ex_10-5.htm 

EXHIBIT
10.5  

CATERPILLAR
INC. 

      EXECUTIVE
SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

(Amended
and Restated as of 02/14/2007) 

Section
      1. 

Purpose  

Effective as of
January 1, 2002, Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) established the Caterpillar
Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan to advance the interests of the
Company and its subsidiaries by providing an annual incentive bonus to be paid
to certain executive officers of the Company based on the achievement of
pre-established quantitative performance goals.  The plan was amended
and restated January 1, 2007, in its entirety and renamed the  Caterpillar Inc.
Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan  (the  Plan ).  By the execution
of this document, the Company hereby amends and restates such plan in its
entirety, effective as of February 14, 2007. 

The Plan is a
performance-based compensation plan as defined in Section 162(m) of the Internal
Revenue Service of 1986, as amended ( Code ) and payments under the Plan are
intended to qualify for tax deductibility under Section
162(m).  Payments under the Plan are intended to constitute
performance-based compensation, and distributions are intended to be short-term
deferrals (and, therefore, not deferred compensation), for purposes of Section
409A of the Code. 

Section
    2.  

Administration 

The Plan shall be
administered by the Compensation Committee ( Committee ) of the Board of
Directors of the Company ( Board ), which is composed solely of members of the
Board that are outside directors, as that term is defined in Section 162(m) of
the Code.  The Committee shall have the authority to grant awards
under the Plan to executive officers of the Company.  Except as
limited by the express provisions of the Plan or by resolutions adopted by the
Board, the Committee also shall have the authority and discretion to interpret
the Plan, to establish and revise rules and regulations relating to the Plan,
and to make any other determinations that it believes necessary or advisable for
administration of the Plan. 

Section
    3.  

Performance
      Awards 

3.1.  

Eligible
      Participants 

Individuals who
occupy the positions of Chief Executive Officer and Group President as well as
any other Company officers specifically designated by the Committee are eligible
to participate in the Plan ( Eligible Participants ).  Absent a
specific designation by the Committee, participation in the Plan will be limited
to the Chief Executive Officer and Group Presidents. 

On or prior to the
ninetieth day of each fiscal year of the Company ( Performance Period ) for
which an award ( Performance Award ) is payable hereunder, the Committee shall
establish the performance factors ( Performance Measures ) applicable to the
award for that Performance Period, the objective criteria based on those
Performance Measures pursuant to which the bonus for that Performance Period is
to be payable ( Performance Targets ) and the amounts potentially payable based
on the achievement or partial achievement of those Performance
Targets.  The Committee shall have sole discretion to determine the
Company Performance Measures and Performance Targets applicable to the
Performance Award, and the method of Performance Award
calculation.  Performance Measures may be based on any of the
following factors, alone or in combination, as the Committee deems appropriate:
(i) revenue; (ii) primary or fully-diluted earnings per share; (iii) earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, and/or amortization; (iv) pretax income;
(v) cash flow from operations; (vi) total cash flow; (vii) return on equity;
(viii) return on invested capital; (ix) return on assets; (x) net operating
profits after taxes; (xi) economic value added; (xii) total stockholder return;
(xiii) return on sales; (xiv) realized 6 Sigma benefits; or (xv) any individual
performance objective which is measured solely in terms of quantifiable targets
related to the Company or the Company s business.  Performance Targets
may include a minimum, maximum and target level of performance with the size of
Performance Awards based on the level attained. Once established, Performance
Targets and Performance Measures shall not be changed during the Performance
Period; provided, however, that the Committee may, in its discretion, eliminate
or decrease the amount of a Performance Award otherwise payable to an Eligible
Participant. 

The maximum dollar
amount that any Eligible Participant may be paid in any single year under the
Plan may not exceed $4 million. 

As soon as
practicable after the Company s audited financial statements are available for
the Performance Period for which the incentive compensation will be paid, the
Committee shall determine the Company s performance in relation to the
Performance Targets for that Performance Period.  The Committee shall
certify in writing the extent to which Performance Targets were
satisfied. 

The Committee may
provide, when it establishes Performance Measures under Section 3.2, that in
determining the Company s performance in relation to the Performance Targets for
the Performance Period, adjustments shall be made in the method of calculating
attainment of performance objectives for one or more of the following reasons:
(i) to exclude the dilutive effects of acquisitions or joint ventures; (ii) to
assume that any business divested by the Company achieved performance objectives
at targeted levels during the balance of a Performance Period following such
divestiture; (iii) to exclude restructuring and/or other nonrecurring charges;
(iv) to exclude exchange rate effects, as applicable, for non-U.S. dollar
denominated net sales and operating earnings; (v) to exclude the effects of
changes to generally accepted accounting standards required by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB); (vi) to exclude the effects to any statutory
adjustments to corporate tax; (vii) to exclude the impact of any  extraordinary
items  as determined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); or
(viii) to exclude the effect of any change in the outstanding shares of common
stock of the Company by reason of any stock dividend or split, stock repurchase,
reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination
or exchange of shares or other similar corporate change, or any distributions to
common stockholders other than regular cash dividends; and (ix) to exclude any
other unusual, non-recurring gain or loss or other extraordinary
item.  Any adjustment provided for pursuant to the foregoing shall be
set forth in objective terms meeting the requirements for performance-based
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code. 

Performance Awards
shall be paid in cash within two and one-half months after the end of the
Performance Period, or as soon as practicable thereafter, to the extent that the
delay does not cause payments to fail to be short-term deferrals for purposes of
Section 409A of the Code.  Federal, state and local taxes will be
withheld as appropriate. 

3.4.  

Termination
      of Employment 

To receive a
Performance Award, the Eligible Participant must be employed by the Company or
one of its subsidiaries on the last day of the Performance Period. If an
Eligible Participant terminates employment before such date by reason of death,
disability or retirement, a payout based on the time of employment during the
Performance Period shall be distributed.  Eligible Participants
employed on the last day of the Performance Period, but not for the entire
Performance Period, shall receive a payout prorated for that part of the
Performance Period for which they were Eligible Participants. If the Eligible
Participant is deceased at the time of a Performance Award payment for which the
Eligible Participant is eligible, the payment shall be made to the Eligible
Participant s estate. 

3.5.  

Clawback
      Provisions 

Any Eligible
Participant whose negligent, intentional or gross misconduct contributes to the
Company s having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements, shall
be required to reimburse the Company for any payments received under this Plan,
as determined by the Board of Directors, an authorized committee, or its
designee, pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Guidelines on Corporate Governance
Issues, as adopted on February 14, 2007 and any subsequent amendments
thereto. 

Section
    4.  

Change
      of Control 

Unless the
Committee shall otherwise expressly provide in the agreement relating to an
award under the Plan, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control as defined
below, all Performance Awards for a Performance Period not completed at the time
of the Change of Control shall be payable to Eligible Participants in an amount
equal to the product of the maximum award opportunity for the Performance Award
and a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months that have elapsed
since the beginning of the Performance Period through the later of (i) the date
of the Change of Control or (ii) for each Eligible Participant, the date the
Eligible Participant terminates employment, and the denominator of which is
twelve; provided, however, that if this Plan shall remain in effect after a
Change of Control, a Performance Period is completed during that time, and the
Eligible Participant s employment has not terminated, this provision shall not
apply. 

4.2.  

Change
      of Control Defined 

For purposes of the
Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if: 

(a)          Any
person becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act )), directly or indirectly, of
securities of the Company representing 15 percent or more of the combined voting
power of the Company s then outstanding common stock, unless the Board by
resolution negates the effect of this provision in a particular circumstance,
deeming that resolution to be in the best interests of Company
stockholders; 

(b)          During
any period of two consecutive Performance Periods, there shall cease to be a
majority of the Board comprised of individuals who at the beginning of such
period constituted the Board; 

(c)          The
stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation which would result
in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity) less than fifty percent of the
combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving
entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation;
or 

(d)          Company
stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an
agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all
of its assets. 

Section
    5.  

Amendment
      and Termination 

The Committee may
amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time in its sole and absolute
discretion.  Any amendment or termination of the Plan, however shall
not affect the right of an Eligible Participant to receive any earned but unpaid
Performance Award.  The Committee may amend the Plan without
stockholder approval, unless such approval is necessary to comply with
applicable laws, including provisions of the Exchange Act or the
Code.  However, termination shall not affect any awards previously
granted under the Plan. 

The Company intends
that awards made pursuant to the Plan constitute  qualified performance-based
compensation  satisfying the requirements of Section 162(m) of the
Code.  Accordingly, the Plan shall be interpreted in a manner
consistent with 162(m) of the Code.  If any provision of the Plan is
intended to but does not comply with, or is inconsistent with, the requirements
of section 162(m) of the Code, such provision shall be construed or deemed
amended to the extent necessary to conform to and comply with, Section 162(m) of
the Code. 

Nothing in this
Plan precludes the Company from making additional payments or special awards to
Eligible Participants outside of the Plan that may or may not qualify as
 performance-based  compensation under Section 162(m), provided that such
payment or award does not affect the qualification of any incentive compensation
payable under the Plan as  performance-based  compensation. 

Section
    7.  

Employment
      Rights 

No provision of the
Plan nor any action taken by the Committee or the Company pursuant to the Plan
shall give or be construed as giving any Eligible Participant any right to be
retained in the employ of the Company or affect or limit the right of the
Company to terminate such employment. 

Section
      8. 

Term  

This amendment and
restatement of the Plan applies to each of the four fiscal years of the Company
in the period commencing January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2010, subject
to the approval of the Plan by the Company s stockholders. 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.8>
 4
 ex_10-8.htm
 DEFERRED EMPLOYEES' INVESTMENT PLAN

ex_10-8.htm 

EXHIBIT
10.8 

      CATERPILLAR
INC. 

      DEFERRED
EMPLOYEES  

      INVESTMENT
PLAN 

(Amended
and Restated as of June 1, 2009) 

ARTICLE
I  DEFINITIONS 

ARTICLE
II  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 

2.1 

Existing
      Participants. 

ARTICLE
III  DEFERRAL CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS 

ARTICLE
IV  VESTING 

ARTICLE
V  INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS 

5.1 

Adjustment of
      Accounts. 

5.2 

Investment
      Direction. 

5.3 

Special
      Company Stock Fund Provisions. 

5.4 

Application
      to Beneficiaries. 

ARTICLE
VI  DISTRIBUTIONS 

6.1 

General Right
      to Receive Distribution 

6.2 

Amount of
      Distribution. 

6.3 

Form of
      Distribution. 

6.4 

Timing of
      Distribution. 

6.6 

Scheduled
      Distributions. 

6.7 

Unscheduled
      Distributions. 

ARTICLE
VII  SPIN-OFF TO SDCP 

7.3 

Allocation of
      Amounts. 

7.5 

Effective
      Date of Spin-Off. 

ARTICLE
VIII  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

8.1 

General
      Powers and Duties. 

8.2 

Certain
      Exercise of Discretion Prohibited. 

ARTICLE
IX  AMENDMENT 

ARTICLE
X  GENERAL PROVISIONS 

10.1 

Participant s
      Rights Unsecured. 

10.3 

No
      Enlargement of Employee Rights. 

DEFERRED
EMPLOYEES  INVESTMENT PLAN 

PREAMBLE 

Effective June 30,
1995, Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) established the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred
Employees  Investment Plan (the  Plan ).  The Plan has been amended
and/or restated on a number of occasions.  By the execution of this
document, the Company hereby amends and restates the Plan in its entirety,
effective as of June 1, 2009. 

ARTICLE
I 

      DEFINITIONS 

1.1             General .    When a word or
phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or
phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall be a term defined in
this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is required by the
context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or phrase is defined for
a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan document: 

(a)                401(k)
Plan     means
the Caterpillar 401(k) Plan, as amended or any successor to such
plan. 

(b)                Adopting
Affiliate     means any Affiliate
that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and which has adopted
the Plan.  All Affiliates that adopted the Plan on or before the
Effective Date and that had not terminated such adoption shall continue to be
Adopting Affiliates but no Affiliate that was not an Adopting Affiliate as of
the Effective Date shall be permitted to adopt the Plan. 

(c)                Affiliate     means a parent business
that controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the
Company. 

(d)                Base
Pay     means
the base salary paid to a Participant as determined in accordance with the
established pay practices of the Company and Adopting
Affiliates.  Base Pay shall include any lump-sum base salary
adjustment and any variable base pay. 

(e)                BFC     means the Benefit Funds
Committee of the Company, which is the committee formed by resolution of the
Board of Directors of the Company, and which has the responsibility and
authority to ensure proper operation and management of the financial aspects of
the 401(k) Plan. 

(f)                Board     means the Board of
Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board. 

(g)                Code     means the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations
promulgated thereunder. 

(h)                Company     means Caterpillar Inc.,
and, to the extent provided in Section 10.8 ( Successors ) below,
any successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or
consolidation into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially
all of the assets of the Company. 

(i)                Company
Stock     means
common stock issued by the Company. 

(j)                Company
Stock Fund     means the Investment
Fund described in Section 5.3 ( Special Company Stock Fund
Provisions ). 

(k)              Deferral
Credits     means the deferral
credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.2 ( Deferral
Credits ). 

(l)                Director     means the Company s
Director of Compensation + Benefits. 

(m)                Disability 
or  Disabled     means that a
Participant is  totally and permanently disabled  and eligible to receive
long-term disability benefits pursuant to the terms and provisions of the
long-term disability plan sponsored by the Company or an Affiliate in which the
Participant participates. 

(n)                Effective
Date     means
March 25, 2007. 

(o)                ERISA     means the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any
regulations promulgated thereunder. 

(p)                ESTIP     means the Caterpillar
Inc. Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan, as amended or any predecessor or
successor to such plan. 

(q)                Incentive
Compensation     means STIP Pay, LTCPP
Pay and Lump-Sum Awards. 

(r)                 Investment
Fund     means
the notional investment funds established by the terms of the Plan pursuant to
Article V ( Investment of
Accounts ). 

(s)                LTCPP
Pay     means
the amounts designated by the Company as the cash-based performance award under
the  Long-Term Cash Performance Plan  and paid pursuant to the terms of the
Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (or any predecessor to such
plan). 

(t)                Lump-Sum
Award     means
the discretionary lump-sum cash awards paid to employees pursuant to the uniform
and nondiscriminatory pay practices of the Company or an Affiliate, but not
including any lump-sum base salary adjustment. 

(u)                Matching
Credits     means the matching
credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.3 ( Matching
Credits ). 

(v)                Participant     means an employee of
the Company or any Adopting Affiliate who had satisfied the eligibility
requirements for participation in the Plan as of March 31, 2007 and who, as of
such date, has amounts credited to his accounts under this Plan. 

(w)                Plan     means the Caterpillar
Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan, as set forth herein and as it may be
amended from time to time. 

(x)              Plan
Administrator   means the Director. 

(y)                Plan
Year     means
the calendar year. 

(z)                Post-1996
Deferrals     means the Deferral
Credits made by a Participant on and after January 1, 1997 and before January 1,
2005 (including the earnings/losses thereon). 

(aa)                Post-2004
Deferrals     means the Deferral
Credits and Matching Credits made by a Participant on and after January 1, 2005
determined pursuant to Section 7.2 ( Amounts
Spun-Off ). 

(bb)                SDCP     means the Caterpillar
Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended. 

(cc)                STIP     means the Caterpillar
Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan, as amended or any successor to such
plan. 

(dd)                STIP
Pay     means
amounts paid to employees of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate pursuant to
the terms of STIP and/or ESTIP. 

(ee)                Valuation
Date     means
each day of the Plan Year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for
trading. 

1.2             Construction .    The masculine
gender, when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender (and vice
versa), and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan clearly
states to the contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the purpose
of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the
Plan.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any reason
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force
and effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and
enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois  without regard to conflict of law
principles  and shall be administered according to the laws of such state,
except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other Federal
law. 

ARTICLE
II 

      ELIGIBILITY
AND PARTICIPATION 

2.1             Existing
Participants .    Each individual
who was a Participant in the Plan as of the Effective Date shall continue as
such, subject to the provisions hereof. 

2.2             New
Participants .    No individual
shall become eligible to participate in the Plan after the Effective
Date. 

ARTICLE
III 

      DEFERRAL
CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS 

3.1             Credits
Ceased .    Effective as of
March 26, 2007, all credits (other than credits associated with adjustment of
accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 ( Adjustment of
Accounts ) to the Plan shall cease.  Participants shall not be
permitted to make Deferral Credits and the Plan Administrator shall no longer
allocate Matching Credits to Participants  accounts. 

3.2             Deferral
Credits .    Immediately prior
to March 26, 2007, Participants were permitted to elect to supplement the
deferrals made pursuant to the 401(k) Plan by deferring the receipt of up to 70%
(designated in whole percentages) of the Base Pay and Incentive Compensation
otherwise payable to the Participant by the Company or an Adopting Affiliate in
any Plan Year.  The deferrals made prior to March 26, 2007 were
subject to the provisions of the Plan as in effect at the time the deferral
election was made and such uniform and non-discriminatory rules as were adopted
by the Plan Administrator in that regard. 

3.3             Matching
Credits .    For periods ending
on or before the Effective Date, the Plan Administrator allocated matching
credits to the Participant s accounts in an amount equal to: (a) 6% of the Base
Pay deferred by the Participant as Deferral Credits and (b) 100% of the STIP Pay
and Lump-Sum Awards deferred by the Participant as Deferral Credits (up to a
maximum of 6% of the Participant s STIP Pay and Lump-Sum Awards for the relevant
Plan Year).  LTCPP Pay deferred by the Participant as Deferral Credits
was not considered when determining Matching Credits. 

ARTICLE
IV 

      VESTING 

4.1             Vesting .    Subject to Section
10.1 ( Participant s
Rights Unsecured ), each Participant shall at all times be fully vested in
all amounts credited to or allocable to his accounts hereunder and his rights
and interest therein shall not be forfeitable. 

ARTICLE
V 

      INVESTMENT
OF ACCOUNTS 

5.1             Adjustment
of Accounts .    Except as
otherwise provided elsewhere in the Plan, as of each Valuation Date, each
Participant s accounts will be adjusted to reflect the positive or negative rate
of return on the Investment Funds selected by the Participant pursuant to
Section 5.2(b) ( Investment Direction -
Participant Directions ).  The rate of return will be determined
by the Plan Administrator pursuant to Section 5.2(f) ( Investment Direction  
Investment Performance ) and will be credited or charged in accordance
with policies applied uniformly to all Participants. 

5.2             Investment
Direction .   

(a)             Investment
Funds .  Each Participant may direct the notional investment of
amounts credited to his Plan accounts in one or more of the Investment
Funds.  The Investment Funds shall, at all times, be notional funds
that track the returns of the investment funds selected by the BFC for purposes
of the 401(k) Plan and made available to 401(k) Plan participants.  In
addition, the Investment Funds shall, at all times, include a Company Stock Fund
as described in Section 5.3 ( Special Company Stock Fund
Provisions ). Neither the Company, each Adopting Affiliate, the Plan
Administrator, the BFC, nor any other party shall have any responsibility, duty
of care (whether express or implied) or liability to any participant in regards
to designation of the Investment Funds as set forth in this Section
5.2(a). 

(b)             Participant
Directions .  Each Participant may direct that all of the
amounts attributable to his accounts be invested in a single Investment Fund or
may direct that whole percentage increments of his accounts be invested in such
fund or funds as he shall desire in accordance with such procedures as may be
established by the Plan Administrator.  Unless the Plan Administrator
prescribes otherwise, such procedures generally shall mirror the procedures
established under the 401(k) Plan for participant investment
direction. 

(c)             Changes
and Intra-Fund Transfers .  Participant investment directions
may be changed, and amounts may be transferred from one Investment Fund to
another, in accordance with the procedures established by the Plan
Administrator.  The designation will remain in effect until changed by
the timely submission of a new designation by the Participant. 

(d)             Default
Selection .  In the absence of any designation by the
Participant, such Participant will be deemed to have directed the notional
investment of his accounts in the Investment Fund that tracks the return of the
401(k) Plan investment fund that is designated by the BFC as the  default 
investment fund for purposes of the 401(k) Plan. 

(e)              Impact
of Election .  The Participant s selection of Investment Funds
shall serve only as a measurement of the value of the Participant s Accounts
pursuant to Section 5.1 ( Adjustment of
Accounts ) and this Section 5.2.  None of the Company, the
BFC, or the Plan Administrator are required to actually invest a Participant s
accounts in accordance with the Participant s selections. 

(f)             Investment
Performance .  Accounts shall be adjusted on each Valuation Date
to reflect investment gains and losses as if the accounts were invested in the
Investment Funds selected by the Participants in accordance with this
Section 5.2 and charged with any and all reasonable expenses as provided in
paragraph (g) below.  The earnings and losses determined by the Plan
Administrator in good faith and in his discretion pursuant to this Section 5.2
shall be binding and conclusive on the Participant, the Participant s
beneficiary and all parties claiming through them. 

(g)             Charges .  The
Plan Administrator may (but is not required to) charge Participants  accounts
for the reasonable expenses of administration including, but not limited to,
carrying out and/or accounting for investment instructions directly related to
such accounts. 

5.3             Special
Company Stock Fund Provisions .   

(a)             General .  A
Participant s interest in the Company Stock Fund shall be expressed in whole and
fractional notional units of the Company Stock Fund.  The Company
Stock Fund shall track an investment in Company Stock in the same manner as the
401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Accordingly, the value of a unit in
the Plan s Company Stock Fund shall be the same as the value of a unit in the
401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and to the extent that a company stock fund is no longer maintained under the
401(k) Plan, the Plan Administrator shall establish such rules and procedures as
are necessary to maintain the Company Stock Fund hereunder. 

(b)             Investment
Directions .  A Participant s ability to direct investments into
or out of the Company Stock Fund shall be subject to such procedures as the Plan
Administrator may prescribe from time to time to assure compliance with Rule
16b-3 promulgated under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and other applicable requirements.  Such procedures also may
limit or restrict a Participant s ability to make (or modify previously made)
deferral and distribution elections pursuant to Articles III ( Deferral Credits and
Matching Credits ) and VI ( Distributions ),
respectively.  In furtherance, and not in limitation, of the
foregoing, to the extent a Participant acquires any interest in an equity
security under the Plan for purposes of Section 16(b), the Participant shall not
dispose of that interest within six months, unless specifically exempted by
Section 16(b) or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. 

(c)             Compliance
with Securities Laws .  Any elections to transfer amounts from
or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be
subject to all applicable securities law requirements, including but not limited
to the last sentence of paragraph (b) above and Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the
Securities Exchange Commission.  To the extent that any election
violates any securities law requirement or the Company s stock trading policies
and procedures, the election shall be void. 

(d)             Compliance
with Company Trading Policies and Procedures .  Any elections to
transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other
Investment Fund, shall be subject to all Company Stock trading policies
promulgated by the Company.  To the extent that any election violates
any such trading policy or procedures, the election shall be void. 

5.4             Application
to Beneficiaries .    Following the
death of a Participant, the term  Participant  in this Article V shall refer to
the Participant s beneficiary described in Section 6.5 ( Payment Upon
Death ). 

ARTICLE
VI 

      DISTRIBUTIONS 

6.1             General
Right to Receive Distribution     Following
termination of employment with the Company, death or Disability, the
Participant s accounts will be distributed in the manner and at the time
provided in Sections 6.3 ( Form of Distribution )
and 6.4 ( Timing of
Distribution ) or Section 6.5 ( Payment Upon Death ),
as applicable.  A transfer of a Participant from the Company or any
Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be deemed to be a
termination of employment with the Company for purposes of this Article
VI. 

6.2             Amount of
Distribution .    The amount
distributed to a Participant shall be based on the vested amounts credited to
the Participant s accounts as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the
date of the distribution.  Amounts shall be valued at the fair market
value on the relevant Valuation Date determined pursuant to uniform and
non-discriminatory procedures established by the Plan
Administrator. 

6.3             Form of
Distribution .   

(a)             Default
Form of Distribution .  Accounts shall be distributed in cash in
a single lump-sum payment. 

(b)             Optional
Form of Distribution .  A Participant may elect to receive his
distribution in the form of quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash installments
for a period of up to fifteen years by filing an election with the Plan
Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second
year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant
to Section 6.4 ( Timing
of Distribution ).  If an election pursuant to this paragraph
(b) of this Section 6.3 cannot be honored because it was not timely filed,
distributions shall be made in accordance with the most recent valid election
made by the Participant that precedes the invalid election.  If no
such election exists, distributions shall be made in a single Lump-Sum in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.3. 

(c)             Change of
Election .  A Participant may change an installment distribution
election by filing a new installment distribution election with the Plan
Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second
year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant
to Section 6.4 ( Timing
of Distribution ).  There shall be no limitation on the number
of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance with this
paragraph (c). 

6.4             Timing of
Distribution .   

(a)             Default
Timing of Distribution .  Accounts shall be distributed within
an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s
termination of employment, death or Disability. 

(b)             Deferral
of Distribution .  A Participant may elect to defer the
distribution of his accounts beyond his termination of employment, death or
Disability by filing an election with the Plan Administrator: (1) while the
Participant is employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (2) before the last
Company business day of November in the year prior to the year during which the
Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability
occurs.  If an election pursuant to this paragraph (b) cannot be
honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made in
accordance with the most recent valid election made by the Participant that
precedes the invalid election.  If no such election exists,
distributions shall be made within an administratively reasonable period of time
following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4. 

(c)             Change of
Election .  An election made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
Section 6.4 or election made effective as a result of paragraph (e)(1) of this
Section 6.4 may be changed by the Participant by filing a new election with the
Plan Administrator: (1) while the Participant is employed by the Company or an
Adopting Affiliate and (2) before the last Company business day of November in
the year prior to the year during which the Participant s termination of
employment, death or Disability occurs.  There shall be no limitation
on the number of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance
with this paragraph (c). 

(d)             Date
Elected By Participant .  The date elected by a Participant
pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 must be the first day of
any calendar quarter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if as of the
Effective Date, a Participant had made an election whereby the date of
distribution elected is not the first day of a calendar quarter, such election
shall be honored unless and until the Participant initiates a change to the
timing of distribution pursuant to this Section 6.4 or the form of distribution
pursuant to Section 6.3 ( Form of
Distribution ). 

(e)             Revocation
of Election . 

(1)             Automatic
Revocation .  If, as of the distribution date elected by the
Participant pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 the
Participant, is: (i) employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (ii) not
Disabled, such election shall be automatically revoked and distributions shall
be made within an administratively reasonable period of time following the
Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the distribution date is automatically revoked pursuant to this paragraph (e)(1)
and the distribution was to be made in the form of cash installments pursuant to
Section 6.3 ( Form of
Distribution ), the date of distribution shall be the first day of the
next calendar quarter that is within an administratively feasible period of time
following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Nothing contained
in this paragraph (e)(1) shall prevent a Participant from changing his election
pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 6.4. 

(2)             Election
Irrevocable Following Termination of Employment .  At all times
following the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or an
Affiliate, the Participant s elections made pursuant to this Section 6.4 shall
be irrevocable. 

6.5             Payment
Upon Death .   

(a)             Beneficiary
Designation .  If a Participant should die before receiving a
full distribution of his Plan accounts, distribution shall be made to the
beneficiary designated by the Participant, in accordance with such uniform rules
and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to
time.  If a Participant has not designated a beneficiary, or if no
designated beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, then the
Participant s beneficiary shall be that person or persons entitled to receive
distributions of the Participant s accounts under the 401(k) Plan. 

(b)             Timing
and Form of Payment to Beneficiary . 

(1)             Payments
Commenced at Time of Death .  If, at the time of the
Participant s death, installment payments of the Participant s accounts have
commenced pursuant to this Article VI, such payments shall continue to the
Participant s beneficiary in the same time and the same form as if the
Participant has remained alive until the last installment payment was scheduled
to be made. 

(2)             Payments
Not Commenced at Time of Death . 

(i)             Default .  If,
at the time of the Participant s death, payments of the Participant s accounts
have not commenced pursuant to this Article VI, the distributions made pursuant
to this Section 6.5 shall be made to the Participant s beneficiary in accordance
with the then current and valid distribution elections (as to timing and form)
made by the Participant (or, in the absence of such distribution elections, in
accordance with the  default  provisions of this Article VI). 

(ii)             Separate
Election .  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything herein to
the contrary, a Participant may make separate elections regarding the timing and
form of payments to his beneficiary upon his death.  Such separate
beneficiary elections shall be valid only if they meet the requirements of
Section 6.3 ( Form of
Distribution ) and Section 6.4 ( Timing of
Distribution ).  In addition, such separate beneficiary
elections may be changed or revoked in accordance with Section 6.3 ( Form of Distribution )
and Section 6.4 ( Timing of
Distribution ). 

(3)             No
Changes Permitted by Beneficiary .  In no event shall a
beneficiary be permitted to change the time and/or form of payment relating to a
Participant s accounts following such Participant s death either prior to or
following such Participant s death. 

6.6             Scheduled
Distributions  .   The Plan as in
effect prior to the Effective Date permitted a Participant to elect, at the time
the Participant elected to make Deferral Credits, to schedule a distribution
date for all or a portion of such Deferral Credits provided: (a) the
distribution date scheduled by the Participant was the first day of any calendar
quarter and (b) the distribution date scheduled by the Participant was at least
four years later than the last day of the Plan Year that includes the Deferral
Credits to which the election relates.  As of the Effective Date, no
Participant had such a scheduled distribution election on file with the Plan
Administrator.  Because Deferral Credits have ceased pursuant to
Section 3.1 ( Credits
Ceased ) and because there are no scheduled distribution elections on
file, the scheduled distribution provisions of the Plan as in effect prior to
the Effective Date are now without effect. 

6.7             Unscheduled
Distributions  .   Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, a Participant may elect to receive a lump-sum
cash distribution of his Plan accounts at any time while employed by the Company
or an Affiliate in accordance with this Section 6.7 and the uniform and
non-discriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator. 

(a)             Amount of
Distribution .  A Participant may elect to receive five percent
to one hundred percent (designated in whole percentages by the Participant) of
his Post-1996 Deferrals.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event
shall the amount of the distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 be less
than $10,000.00 (determined prior to the application of the forfeiture described
in paragraph (b) below). 

(b)             Forfeiture .   Any
distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall be subject to a forfeiture
equal to 10% of the amount elected. 

(c)             Election
Applies to SEIP .  An election for an unscheduled distribution
pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall also apply as an election for an unscheduled
distribution pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Caterpillar Inc.
Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan. 

6.8             Withholding .    All distributions
will be subject to all applicable tax and withholding requirements. 

ARTICLE
VII 

      SPIN-OFF
TO SDCP 

7.1             General .    In response to the
enactment of Section 409A of the Code and pursuant to transitional guidance
issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury, Deferrals
Credits and Matching Credits have been frozen and all amounts deferred and
vested on and before December 31, 2004 are  grandfathered  and thus are not
subject to the requirements of Section 409A.  The Deferral Credits and
Matching Credits made pursuant to the Plan from January 1, 2005 through the
Effective Date (including the earnings/losses thereon) will be spun-off to SDCP
as provided in this Article VII. 

7.2             Amounts
Spun-Off .    All amounts
credited to participant accounts pursuant to this Plan on or after January 1,
2005 and through the Effective Date and not fully distributed on or before April
1, 2007 shall be spun-off and allocated to Plan accounts as provided in Section
7.3 ( Allocation of
Amounts ).  The amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2005 shall
be determined in accordance with Q A-17 of I.R.S. Notice 2005-1 and any
other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the
Department of Treasury. 

7.3             Allocation
of Amounts .    A Participant s
Post-2004 Deferrals shall be allocated to the Participant s accounts in SDCP as
provided therein. 

7.4             Deferral
Elections .  Deferral elections made by participants pursuant to
the Plan for amounts to be deferred in 2007 following the Effective Date shall
apply to SDCP as provided therein. 

7.5             Effective
Date of Spin-Off .    The spin-off
described in this Article VII shall be effective as of 11:59:59 P.M. on the
Effective Date. 

ARTICLE
VIII 

      ADMINISTRATION
OF THE PLAN 

8.1             General
Powers and Duties .    The following list
of powers and duties is not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan
Administrator shall, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such
other duties as he may deem advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless
such powers or duties are expressly assigned to another pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan. 

(a)             General .  The
Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and
discretion given to him in the Plan document and by applicable law and his
decisions and actions shall be final and conclusive as to all persons affected
thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the
Plan Administrator with all data and information that the Plan Administrator may
reasonably require in order to perform his functions.  The Plan
Administrator may rely without question upon any such data or
information. 

(b)             Disputes .  Any
and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be
referred to the Plan Administrator and his decision shall be
final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning,
interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the
Plan Administrator shall be final. 

(c)             Agents .  The
Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist him and
he may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The
Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to
be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or
certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 

(d)             Insurance .  At
the Director s request, the Company shall purchase liability insurance to cover
the Director in his activities as the Plan Administrator. 

(e)             Allocations .  The
Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to
others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator
has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is
not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such
responsibility has been allocated. 

(f)             Records .  The
Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records
by its agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant
data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the
Plan. 

(g)             Interpretations .  The
Plan Administrator, in his sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the
provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 

(h)             Electronic
Administration .  The Plan Administrator shall have the
authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to,
electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which
Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for
participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan
Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions
or forms submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by
the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan
calling for the submission of a written election, direction or
form. 

(i)             Accounts .  The
Plan Administrator shall combine the various accounts of a Participant if he
deems such action appropriate.  Furthermore, the Plan Administrator
shall divide a Participant s accounts into sub-accounts if he deems such action
appropriate. 

(j)             Delegation .  The
Plan Administrator may delegate his authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in
his sole and absolute discretion. 

8.2             Certain
Exercise of Discretion Prohibited .  Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, the Plan Administrator (or any other individual or
entity to whom the power to exercise discretion hereunder is granted) shall not
exercise the discretion granted in a manner that would create a  material
modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable
guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury)
to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3, 2004. 

8.3             Claims
Procedures .  Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in
accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan
Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA. 

ARTICLE
IX 

      AMENDMENT 

9.1             Amendment .    The Company shall
have the right at any time to amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the
provisions of this Plan by action of the Board of Directors of the Company;
provided, however, if the amendment does not constitute a reallocation of
fiduciary duties among those designated to act under the Plan or an allocation
of fiduciary duties to committees and/or persons not previously designated to
act under the Plan, then the Company s Vice President, Human Services Division,
shall have the authority to amend the Plan, acting in consultation with the
Company s Chairman of the Board and the appropriate Group President(s) of the
Company (or in consultation with the full Board of Directors if the Chairman of
the Board deems it necessary and appropriate).  The Company s Vice
President, Human Services Division, may designate any other officer(s) of the
Company as having authority to amend the Plan in the Vice President s absence,
which officer shall also act in consultation with the Company s Chairman of the
Board and the appropriate Group President(s) of the Company (or in consultation
with the full Board of Directors if the Chairman of the Board deems it necessary
and appropriate). 

9.2             Effect of
Amendment .    Any amendment of
the Plan shall not directly or indirectly reduce the balance of any Plan account
as of the effective date of such amendment.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing or anything in this Plan to the contrary, any amendment to the Plan
effective on or after October 3, 2004 that creates a  material modification  (as
determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by
the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury) shall only be
effective if such amendment expressly states an intent by the Company to
materially modify the Plan (and thus subject it to Section 409A of the
Code). 

9.3             Termination .    To the extent
permitted by applicable law, the Company expressly reserves the right to
terminate the Plan at any time. 

ARTICLE
X 

      GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

10.1             Participant s
Rights Unsecured .    The Plan at all
times shall be entirely unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with
respect to segregating any assets of the Company for payment of any
distributions hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her
designated beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured
claim against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor
a designated beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets
of the Company.  All amounts credited to a Participant s accounts
hereunder shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of
by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem
appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from
establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be
available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of
the Company s insolvency. 

10.2             No
Guaranty of Benefits .    Nothing contained
in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or
entity that the assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit
hereunder. 

10.3             No
Enlargement of Employee Rights .    No Participant
shall have any right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in
accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan
shall not be construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the
service of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 

10.4             Section
409A .   

(a)             Material
Modification .  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, this amendment and restatement of the Plan does not, and is not
intended to, create a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice
2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service
or the Department of Treasury) to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3,
2004 which would subject the Plan to the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code.  This document shall be construed and interpreted in a manner
consistent with that intention. 

(b)             Good
Faith Compliance .  The Deferral Credits and Matching Credits
made from January 1, 2005 through the Effective Date (including the
earnings/losses thereon) have been administered pursuant to the Plan in  good
faith  compliance with Section 409A of the Code pursuant to transitional
guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of
Treasury. 

10.5             Spendthrift
Provision .    No interest of any
person or entity in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be
subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment,
garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such
interest or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or
claims against, such person or entity, including claims in bankruptcy
proceedings.  This Section shall not preclude arrangements for the
withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or benefit payments, arrangements
for the recovery of benefit overpayments, arrangements for the transfer of
benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements for direct deposit of benefit
payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan association or credit union
(provided that such arrangement is not part of an arrangement constituting an
assignment or alienation). 

10.6             Domestic
Relations Orders .    Notwithstanding
any provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law,
the Participant s accounts may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic
Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code),
subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan
Administrator from time to time. 

10.7             Incapacity
of Recipient .    If the Plan
Administrator is served with a court order holding that a person entitled to a
distribution under the Plan is incapable of personally receiving and giving a
valid receipt for such distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone
payment until such time as a claim therefore shall have been made by a duly
appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person.  The
Plan Administrator is under no obligation to inquire or investigate as to the
competency of any person entitled to a distribution.  Any payment to
an appointed guardian or other legal representative under this Section shall be
a payment for the account of the incapacitated person and a complete discharge
of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefore. 

10.8             Successors .    The Plan shall be
binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon the heirs,
beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who become
Participants hereunder. 

10.9             Limitations
on Liability .    Notwithstanding
any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the
Company, nor any individual acting as the Plan Administrator s, or the Company s
employee, agent, or representative shall be liable to any Participant, former
Participant, beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or
expense incurred in connection with the Plan. 

10.10             Conflicts .    If any person
holds a position under the Plan through which he or she is charged with making a
decision about the administration of his or her own (or any immediate family
member s) Plan participation, including, without limitation, decisions regarding
eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan
investments, then such person shall be recused and the decision shall be made by
the Plan Administrator.  If a decision is required regarding the
administration of the Plan Administrator s Plan participation, including without
limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the
administration of his or her Plan investments, such decision shall be made by
the Company s Vice President, Human Services Division .    Nothing in this Section 10.10 shall be
construed to limit a Participant s or the Plan Administrator s ability to make
decisions or elections with regard to his or her participation in the Plan in
the same manner as other Participants.  

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.9>
 5
 ex_10-9.htm
 SOLAR MANAGERIAL RETIREMENT OBJECTIVE PLAN

ex_10-9.htm 

EXHIBIT 10.9 

SOLAR TURBINES INCORPORATED 

      MANAGERIAL RETIREMENT 

      OBJECTIVE PLAN 

(Amended
and Restated Effective as of July 16, 2009) 

Table of
Contents  

ARTICLE
I.  DEFINITIONS 

ARTICLE
II.  ELIGIBILITY; ADOPTION BY AFFILIATE 

2.2 

Existing
      Participants 

2.4 

Discontinuance
      of Participation 

2.5 

Adoption by
      Affiliates 

ARTICLE
III.  DETERMINATION OF BENEFIT 

3.2 

Amount of
      Benefit Payable to Participant 

3.4 

Early
      Retirement Reductions 

ARTICLE
IV.  VESTING 

ARTICLE
V.  PAYMENT OF BENEFIT 

5.4 

Ban on
      Acceleration of Benefits 

ARTICLE
VI.  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

6.1 

General
      Powers and Duties 

ARTICLE
VII.  AMENDMENT 

ARTICLE
VIII.  GENERAL PROVISIONS 

8.1 

Participant s
      Rights Unsecured 

8.2 

No Guaranty
      of Benefits 

8.3 

No
      Enlargement of Employee Rights 

8.5 

Spendthrift
      Provision 

8.6 

Domestic
      Relations Orders 

8.7 

Incapacity of
      Recipient 

8.9 

Limitations
      on Liability 

SOLAR
TURBINES INCORPORATED 

      MANAGERIAL
RETIREMENT OBJECTIVE PLAN 

PREAMBLE 

Effective May 14,
1981, Solar Turbines Incorporated (the  Company ) established the Solar Turbines
Incorporated Managerial (and Professional) Retirement Objective Plan for the
benefit of a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the
Company.  As a continuation of the plan, the Company formally adopted
the Solar Turbines Incorporated Managerial Retirement Objective Plan (the
 Plan ) effective as of January 1, 2005 to comply with the requirements of
Section 409A of the Code and other applicable law.   By execution
of this document, the Company hereby amends and restates the Plan in its
entirely, effective as of July 16, 2009. 

ARTICLE
I. 

      DEFINITIONS 

1.1             General .  When
a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and
the word or phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally
be a term defined in this Article I.  The following words and
phrases used in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized shall have the
meanings set forth in this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is
required by the context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or
phrase is defined for a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan
document: 

(a)                Adopting
Affiliate     means
any Affiliate that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and
which has adopted the Plan in accordance with Section 2.5.  All
Affiliates that adopted the Plan on or before the Effective Date and that had
not terminated such adoption shall continue to be Adopting Affiliates of the
Plan. 

(b)                Affiliate     means a parent business that
controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the
Company. 

(c)                Beneficiary     means, with respect to a
Participant, the person or persons entitled to receive distributions of the
Participant s death benefits under SRP. 

(d)              Benefit
Determination Date   means the following: 

(1)             On or
After Effective Date But Prior to January 1, 2009 .  On or after
the Effective Date but prior to January 1, 2009, a Participant s Benefit
Determination Date shall be the date as of which the Participant has elected to
commence benefits under SRP. 

(2)             On or
After January 1, 2009 .  On or after January 1, 2009, a
Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the date determined under (i)
or (ii) below: 

(i)            With
respect to (x) a Participant s PEP Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(b)) or (z)
a Participant s Traditional Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) where the
Participant satisfies the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i) or (ii) as of
the Participant s Separation from Service, the Participant s Benefit
Determination Date shall be the first day of the month following the
Participant s Separation from Service. 

(ii)            With
respect to a Participant's Traditional Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(a))
where the Participant does not satisfy the requirements under Section
5.2(d)(1)(i) or (ii) as of the Participant s Separation from Service, the
Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the first day of the month
following the date that the Participant first satisfies the requirements under
Section 5.2(d)(1)(i) or (ii). 

(e)                Benefit
Payment Date    
means the date as of which the Participant s benefit amounts under the Plan
shall be payable, as determined in accordance with Section 5.2(d). 

(f)                Board     means the Board of Directors
of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board. 

(g)                Code     means the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated
thereunder. 

(h)                Company     means Solar Turbines
Incorporated, and, to the extent provided in Section 8.8 below, any
successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or consolidation
into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially all of the
assets of the Company. 

(i)              Disability  
or   Disabled  
means that a Participant is determined to be totally disabled by the United
States Social Security Administration. 

(j)                Effective
Date     means
January 1, 2005. 

(k)                ERISA     means the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any
regulations promulgated thereunder. 

(l)                MIP
Award     means a
cash award paid pursuant to the Solar Turbines Incorporated Management Incentive
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. 

(m)                Participant     means an employee of the
Company or any Adopting Affiliate who satisfies the eligibility requirements for
participation in the Plan. 

(n)                Plan     means the Solar Turbines
Incorporated Managerial Retirement Objective Plan, as set forth herein and as it
may be amended from time to time. 

(o)                Plan
Administrator    
means the Company. 

(p)                Plan
Year     means the
calendar year. 

(q)                Separation
from Service   
 means separation from service as determined in accordance with any
regulations, rulings or other guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury
pursuant to Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code, as it may be amended or
replaced from time to time. 

(r)                Specified
Employee     means a
 key employee  as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to
Section 416(i)(5) and determined in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of
the Code. 

(s)                SRP     means the Solar Turbines
Incorporated Retirement Plan, as it may be amended from time to
time. 

(t)                Unforeseeable
Emergency     means
a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or
accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, or a  dependent  (as
defined in Section 152(a) of the Code) of the Participant, loss of the
Participant s property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and
unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of
the Participant.  For purposes of the Plan, an  Unforeseeable
Emergency  shall not include a Participant s need to send his or her child to
college or a Participant s desire to purchase a home.  Any
determination as to whether a Participant has incurred an Unforeseeable
Emergency shall be made in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator in
accordance with rules prescribed pursuant to Section 409A of the
Code. 

1.2             Construction .   The masculine gender,
when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender (and vice versa),
and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan clearly states to the
contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the purpose of reference
only and are not to be considered in the construction of the Plan.  If
any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any reason invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and
effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and
enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois without regard to
conflict of law principles and shall be administered according to the laws of
such state, except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other Federal
law. 

ARTICLE
II. 

      ELIGIBILITY;
ADOPTION BY AFFILIATES 

2.1             Eligible
Employees .  The purpose of the Plan is to provide supplemental
retirement benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated
employees.  This group of employees is sometimes referred to as a  top
hat group.   The Plan constitutes an unfunded supplemental retirement
plan and is fully exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of
ERISA.  The Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with
Title I of ERISA. 

2.2             Existing
Participants .   Each individual who was
a Participant in the Plan as of the date of execution of this plan document
shall continue as such, subject to the provisions hereof. 

2.3             New
Participants .  An employee shall participate in the Plan if he
(a) is in salary grade fifty-three (53) or higher pursuant to the Company s
standard salary grades; (b) is a participant in SRP; (c) has received a MIP
Award; and (d) has been notified by the Plan Administrator of the employee s
eligibility to participate in the Plan. 

2.4             Discontinuance
of Participation .  As a general rule, once an individual is a
Participant, he will continue as such for all future Plan Years until his
retirement or other termination of employment; provided that no payments will be
made by the Plan to any Participant who terminates his or her employment with
the Company prior to satisfying the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i) or
(ii). In addition, prior to retirement or other termination of employment, the
Plan Administrator shall discontinue an individual s participation in the Plan
if the Plan Administrator concludes, in the exercise of its discretion, that the
individual is no longer properly included in the top hat group.  If an
individual s participation is discontinued, the individual will no longer be
eligible to accrue a benefit under the Plan.  The individual will not
be entitled to receive a distribution, however, until the occurrence of another
event (e.g., death or Separation from Service) that entitles the individual to
receive a distribution. 

2.5             Adoption
by Affiliates .  An employee of an Affiliate may not become a
Participant in the Plan unless the Affiliate has previously adopted the
Plan.  An Affiliate of the Company may adopt the Plan only with the
approval of the Company.  By adopting the Plan, the Affiliate shall be
deemed to have agreed to assume the obligations and liabilities imposed upon it
by the Plan, agreed to comply with all of the other terms and provisions of the
Plan, delegated to the Plan Administrator the power and responsibility to
administer the Plan with respect to the Affiliate s employees, and delegated to
the Company the full power to amend or terminate the Plan with respect to the
Affiliate s employees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Affiliate
that has previously adopted the Plan may terminate its participation in the Plan
in accordance with such rules and procedures that are promulgated by the
Company. 

ARTICLE
III. 

      DETERMINATION
OF BENEFIT 

3.1             General .  Benefit
amounts payable under the Plan shall be determined pursuant to Section 3.2 and,
if applicable, adjusted pursuant to Section 3.4.  Such determinations
shall be made by reference to (a) the benefit amounts that would be payable to
the Participant under SRP if MIP Awards were taken into account in determining
the Participant s benefits thereunder and without regard to the applicable
limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code and (b) the monthly
benefit amounts actually payable to the Participant under the terms of
SRP. 

3.2             Amount of
Benefit Payable to Participant .  The monthly benefit payable to
the Participant by the Plan shall be equal to the sum of the Participant s
 Traditional Benefit  and  PEP Benefit  amounts (both as defined below), if any,
determined under subsections (a) and (b) below as of the Participant s Benefit
Determination Date: 

(a)              Traditional
Benefit  .  Any benefit payable to the Participant by the Plan
under the  traditional benefit  provisions under Part C of SRP, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall be determined as follows: 

(1)             Step
One .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the benefit that
would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP if MIP Awards were taken
into account for the plan years used in determining the Participant s final
average salary in accordance with the terms of Part C of SRP and without regard
to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the
Code. 

(2)             Step
Two .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the benefit that
would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP by determining the
Participant s final average salary in accordance with the terms of Part C of SRP
and subject to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of
the Code. 

(3)             Step
Three .  The amount determined pursuant to paragraph (2) above
shall be subtracted from the amount determined pursuant to paragraph (1) above
to determine the benefit payable to the Participant pursuant to this Section
3.2(a) of the Plan (herein referred to as a Participant s  Traditional
Benefit ). 

(b)              PEP
Benefit  .  Any benefit payable by the Plan to the Participant
under the  pension equity formula  provisions under Part E of SRP, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall be determined as follows: 

(1)             Step
One .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the single sum
amount that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP if MIP Awards
were taken into account for the plan years used in determining the Participant s
final average salary in accordance with the terms of Part E of SRP and without
regard to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the
Code. 

(2)             Step
Two .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the single sum
amount that is payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP by determining the
Participant s final average salary in accordance with the terms of Part E of SRP
and subject to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of
the Code. 

(3)             Step
Three .  The amount determined pursuant to paragraph (2) above
shall be subtracted from the amount determined pursuant to paragraph (1) above
to determine the single sum amount payable to the Participant pursuant to this
Section 3.2(b) of the Plan (herein referred to as a Participant s  PEP
Benefit ). 

(c)             Timing of
MIP Awards .  For   purposes of Section
3.2(a)(1) above, not more than three MIP Awards paid during any thirty-six
consecutive month period shall be considered for such period when determining
the benefit that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP if MIP
Awards were taken into account. The Plan Administrator shall adopt uniform and
nondiscriminatory procedures for determining which MIP Award(s) will be
disregarded if more than three MIP Awards are paid in a thirty-six consecutive
month period. 

3.3             Survivor
Benefits .  In the event a Participant dies after becoming
vested under the Plan pursuant to Section 4.1 but prior to commencing his
benefits under the Plan pursuant to Article V, a survivor benefit shall be
payable as follows: 

(a)             Traditional
Benefit .  With respect to a Participant s Traditional Benefit,
if any, determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under
Section 3.4), the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, shall be entitled to a
monthly survivor benefit payable during the spouse s lifetime and terminating
with the payment for the month in which such spouse s death
occurs.  The monthly benefit payable to the surviving spouse shall be
the portion of the amount determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable,
adjusted under Section 3.4) as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date
that the surviving spouse would have been entitled to receive under this Plan if
the Participant had separated from service on the date of his death, commenced
benefits in accordance with Article V in the form of a 60% (55% in the case of a
Participant in benefit class code B as of the date the Participant first
commenced participation under this Plan) joint and survivor annuity (as
determined in accordance with the applicable assumptions in effect under SRP as
of the date the Participant first commenced participation under this Plan), and
then died immediately thereafter.  A surviving spouse who was not
married to the deceased Participant for at least one year at the date of death
shall not be eligible for the monthly survivor benefit pursuant to this Section
3.3. 

(b)             PEP
Benefit .  With respect to a Participant s PEP Benefit, if any,
determined under Section 3.2(b), such benefit shall be paid to the Participant s
Beneficiary in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after
the Benefit Determination Date. 

3.4             Early
Retirement Reductions .  Any benefits determined pursuant to
this Article III shall be subject to the same reductions for early retirement as
applicable under SRP. 

3.5             Future
Adjustments .  Any benefit amounts payable under this Plan may
be adjusted to take into account future amendments to SRP and increases in
retirement income that are granted under SRP due to cost-of-living
increases.  Any benefit amounts payable under this Plan shall be
adjusted to take into account future factors and adjustments made by the
Secretary of the Treasury (in regulations or otherwise) to the limitations under
Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. 

ARTICLE
IV. 

      VESTING 

4.1             Vesting .   Subject to Section 8.1,
each Participant shall be vested in his or her benefit, if any, that becomes
payable under Article V of the Plan to the same extent that the Participant is
vested in his or her benefit accrued under SRP. 

ARTICLE
V. 

      PAYMENT
OF BENEFIT 

5.1             Payments
on or After Effective Date But Prior to January 1, 2009 .  In
accordance with the transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service
and the Department of Treasury in Section 3 of IRS Notice 2007-86, any payment
of benefits to a Participant or his Beneficiary commencing on or after the
Effective Date but prior to January 1, 2009 shall be made pursuant to the
Participant s applicable payment election or the applicable pre-retirement
survivor provisions under SRP. 

5.2             Payments
on or After January 1, 2009 .  Any payment of benefits to a
Participant commencing on or after January 1, 2009 shall be determined in
accordance with this Section 5.2. 

(a)             Limitation
on Right to Receive Distribution .   A Participant shall not
be entitled to receive a distribution prior to the first to occur of the
following events: 

(1)            The
Participant s Separation from Service, or in the case of a Participant who is a
Specified Employee, the date which is six months after the Participant s
Separation from Service; 

(2)            The
date the Participant becomes Disabled; 

(3)            The
Participant s death; 

(4)            A
specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) specified at the date of
deferral of compensation; 

(5)            An
Unforeseeable Emergency; or 

(6)            To
the extent provided by the Secretary of the Treasury, a change in the ownership
or effective control of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate or in the ownership
of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company or an Adopting
Affiliate. 

This Section 5.2(a)
restates the restrictions on distributions set forth in Section 409A of the Code
and is intended to impose restrictions on distributions pursuant to the Plan
accordingly.  This Section 5.2(a) does not describe the instances in
which distributions will be made.  Rather, distributions will be made
only if and when permitted both by this Section 5.2(a) and another provision of
the Plan. 

(b)             General
Right to Receive Distribution .  Following a Participant s
termination of employment or death, the Participant s benefit amounts will be
paid to the Participant in the manner and at the time provided in Sections
5.2(c) and 5.2(d), as applicable.  A transfer of a Participant from
the Company or any Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be
deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of this Section
5.2(b). 

(c)             Form of
Payment . 

(1)             Traditional
Benefit .  Any monthly benefit payable to a Participant under
Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) shall be paid in
the form of annuity payments as follows: 

(i)             Unmarried
Participants .  The benefits of an unmarried Participant shall
be paid in the form of a single life annuity for the Participant s
life.  No payments shall be made after the Participant
dies.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with uniform rules
and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time, an
unmarried Participant may elect, in lieu of a single life annuity, to have his
or her benefits paid in any actuarially equivalent form of annuity permitted
under SRP. 

(ii)             Married
Participants .  Subject to Section 3.3, the benefits of a
married Participant shall be paid in the form of a joint and survivor annuity in
a monthly benefit for the Participant s life and then, if the Participant s
spouse is still alive, a benefit equal to 60% (55% in the case of a Participant
in benefit class code B as of the date the Participant first commenced
participation under this Plan) of the Participant s monthly benefit is paid to
the spouse for the remainder of his or her life (as determined in accordance
with the applicable assumptions in effect under SRP as of the date the
Participant first commenced participation under this Plan).  If the
Participant s spouse is not alive when the Participant dies, no further payments
shall be made.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with
uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from
time to time, a married Participant may, with the written consent of the
Participant s spouse, elect to waive the joint and survivor annuity of this
subparagraph (ii) and instead elect a single life annuity or any actuarially
equivalent form of annuity permitted under SRP. 

In addition, if the
Participant s Benefit Payment Date, as described in clauses (i) or (ii) of
Section 5.2(d)(1), is delayed pursuant to the last sentence of Section
5.2(d)(1), then any monthly benefit amounts that would have been paid if not for
such last sentence will be credited with interest at five percent (5%) per annum
through the Participant s Benefit Payment Date.  Such delayed monthly
benefit amounts and interest shall be paid in a single sum amount as soon as
administratively feasible after such Benefit Payment Date. 

(2)             PEP
Benefit .  Any benefit payable to a Participant determined under
Section 3.2(b) shall be paid in a single sum amount.  In addition, if
the Participant s Benefit Payment Date, as described in Section 5.2(d)(2), is
delayed pursuant to the first sentence of Section 5.2(d)(2), then any single sum
amount that would have been paid if not for such first sentence will be credited
with interest at five percent (5%) per annum through the Participant s Benefit
Payment Date.  Such interest shall be paid in a single sum amount as
soon as administratively feasible after such Benefit Payment Date. 

(d)             Timing of
Payment . 

(1)             Traditional
Benefit  .   Except as
provided below, any benefit determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable,
adjusted under Section 3.4) that becomes payable to the Participant following
Separation from Service shall commence on the first day of the month following
the earliest of the following: 

(i)            the
Participant s attainment of age 65 or, if later, the Participant s fifth
anniversary of the date he or she commenced participation under SRP;
or 

(ii)            the
Participant s attainment of age 55 after completing at least 10 years of
credited service. 

For purposes of
(ii) above, the Plan Administrator shall determine the Participant s  years of
credited service  by reference to the applicable terms under SRP in existence as
of the date the Participant first commenced participation under this
Plan. 

Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this Section 5.2(d)(1), in no event shall any benefit
payable to a Participant under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted
under Section 3.4) commence earlier than the first day of the month coincident
with or next following a date that is at least six months after the
Participant s Separation from Service, except in the event of the Participant s
death, in which case any benefit payable to the Participant s Beneficiary shall
commence as of the applicable date specified in Section 3.3(a). 

For avoidance of
doubt, and notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no
payments will be made by the Plan to any Participant who terminates his or her
employment with the Company prior to satisfying the requirements under
subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above. 

(2)             PEP
Benefit  .   Subject to the
last paragraph of Section 5.2(d)(1), any benefit determined under Section 3.2(b)
that becomes payable to the Participant following Separation from Service shall
be paid on the first day of the month that is at least six months after the
Participant s Separation from Service.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
in the event of the Participant s death, any benefit payable to the
Participant s Beneficiary will be paid as soon as administratively feasible
after the date of the Participant s death. 

5.3             Withholding .   All distributions will
be subject to all applicable tax and withholding requirements. 

5.4             Ban on
Acceleration of Benefits .  Neither the time nor the schedule of
any payment under the Plan may be accelerated except as permitted in regulations
or other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of
the Treasury and as incorporated herein. 

ARTICLE
VI. 

      ADMINISTRATION
OF THE PLAN 

6.1             General
Powers and Duties .   The following list of
powers and duties is not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan Administrator
shall, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as
he may deem advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless such powers or
duties are expressly assigned to another pursuant to the provisions of the
Plan. 

(a)             General .  The
Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and
discretion given to it in the Plan document and by applicable law and its
decisions and actions shall be final and conclusive as to all persons affected
thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the
Plan Administrator with all data and information that the it may reasonably
require in order to perform its functions.  The Plan Administrator may
rely without question upon any such data or information. 

(b)             Disputes .  Any
and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be
referred to the Plan Administrator and its decision shall be
final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning,
interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the
Plan Administrator shall be final. 

(c)             Agents .  The
Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist it and
it may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The
Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to
be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or
certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 

(d)             Insurance .  The
Company may purchase liability insurance to cover its activities as the Plan
Administrator. 

(e)             Allocations .  The
Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to
others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator
has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is
not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such
responsibility has been allocated. 

(f)             Records .  The
Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records
by its agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant
data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the
Plan. 

(g)             Interpretations .  The
Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the
provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 

(h)             Electronic
Administration .  The Plan Administrator shall have the
authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to,
electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which
Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for
participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan
Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions
or forms submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by
the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan
calling for the submission of a written election, direction or
form. 

(i)             Delegation .  The
Plan Administrator may delegate its authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in
its sole and absolute discretion. 

6.2             Claims
Procedures .  Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in
accordance with Code Section 409A and uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures
adopted by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of
ERISA. 

ARTICLE
VII. 

      AMENDMENT 

7.1             Amendment .   The Company shall have
the right at any time to amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the
provisions of this Plan by action of the Board of Directors of the
Company. 

7.2             Effect of
Amendment .   Any amendment of the
Plan shall not directly or indirectly reduce the benefits previously accrued by
the Participant. 

7.3             Termination .   The Company expressly
reserves the right to terminate the Plan.  In the event of
termination, the Company shall specify whether termination will change the time
at which distributions are made; provided that any acceleration of a
distribution is consistent with Section 409A of the Code.  In the
absence of such specification, the timing of distributions shall be unaffected
by termination. 

ARTICLE
VIII. 

      GENERAL
PROVISIONS 

8.1             Participant s
Rights Unsecured .   The Plan at all times
shall be entirely unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with
respect to segregating any assets of the Company for payment of any
distributions hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her
Beneficiary to receive benefits hereunder shall be an unsecured claim against
the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor his
Beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the
Company.  All amounts accrued by Participants hereunder shall
constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company
at such time and for such purposes as it may deem
appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from
establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be
available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of
the Company s insolvency. 

8.2             No
Guaranty of Benefits .   Nothing contained in the
Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or entity
that the assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit
hereunder. 

8.3             No
Enlargement of Employee Rights .   No Participant shall
have any right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in accordance with
the terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan shall not be
construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the
Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 

8.4             Section
409A Compliance .  The Company intends that the Plan meet the
requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued
thereunder.  The Plan shall be administered, construed and interpreted
in a manner consistent with that intention. 

8.5             Spendthrift
Provision .   No interest of any
person or entity in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be
subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment,
garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such
interest or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or
claims against, such person or entity, including claims in bankruptcy
proceedings.  This Section shall not preclude arrangements for the
withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or benefit payments, arrangements
for the recovery of benefit overpayments, arrangements for the transfer of
benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements for direct deposit of benefit
payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan association or credit union
(provided that such arrangement is not part of an arrangement constituting an
assignment or alienation). 

8.6             Domestic
Relations Orders .   Notwithstanding any
provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, the
amounts payable pursuant to the Plan may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a
 Domestic Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of
the Code), subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the
Plan Administrator from time to time. 

8.7             Incapacity
of Recipient .   If the Plan
Administrator is served with a court order holding that a person entitled to a
distribution under the Plan is incapable of personally receiving and giving a
valid receipt for such distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone
payment until such time as a claim therefore shall have been made by a duly
appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person.  The
Plan Administrator is under no obligation to inquire or investigate as to the
competency of any person entitled to a distribution.  Any payment to
an appointed guardian or other legal representative under this Section shall be
a payment for the account of the incapacitated person and a complete discharge
of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefor. 

8.8             Successors .   The Plan shall be
binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon the heirs,
beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who become
Participants hereunder. 

8.9             Limitations
on Liability .   Notwithstanding any of
the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the
Company, nor any individual acting as the Plan Administrator s, or the Company s
employee, agent, or representative shall be liable to any Participant, former
Participant, Beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or
expense incurred in connection with the Plan. 

8.10             Overpayments .  If
it is determined that the benefits under the Plan should not have been paid or
should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be given
to the recipient of such benefits (or his legal representative) and he shall
repay the amount of overpayment to the Company.  If he fails to repay
such amount of overpayment promptly, the Company shall arrange to recover for
the Plan the amount of the overpayment by making an appropriate deduction or
deductions from any future benefit payment or payments payable to that person
(or his survivor or beneficiary) under the Plan or from any other benefit plan
of the Company. 

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.10>
 6
 ex_10-10.htm
 SOLAR PENSION PLAN FOR EUROPEAN FOREIGN SERVICE

ex_10-10.htm 

EXHIBIT
10.10 

Solar
Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan 

        For 

        European
Foreign Service Employees 

Amended
and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 

TABLE OF
CONTENTS  

PREAMBLE 

ARTICLE
      I 

DEFINITIONS 

ARTICLE
      II 

ELIGIBILITY
      AND SERVICE 

ARTICLE
      III 

RETIREMENT
      DATES 

ARTICLE
      IV 

BENEFITS 

ARTICLE
      V 

DISABILITY
      PENSION 

ARTICLE
      VI 

PRERETIREMENT
      SPOUSES AND ORPHANS PENSION 

ARTICLE
      VII 

MAXIMUM
      BENEFITS 

ARTICLE
      VIII 

MODES OF
      BENEFIT PAYMENT 

ARTICLE
      IX 

DEATH
      BENEFITS 

ARTICLE
      X 

VESTING 

ARTICLE
      XI 

CONTRIBUTIONS 

ARTICLE
      XII 

ADMINISTRATION
      OF THE PLAN 

ARTICLE
      XIII 

AMENDMENT OR
      TERMINATION 

ARTICLE
      XIV 

GENERAL
      PROVISIONS 

PREAMBLE  

The Solar Turbines
Incorporated Pension Plan for European Foreign Service Employees (the  Plan )
was established as of January 1, 1987.  The Plan has been and is
intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide retirement
benefits for a select group of management employees or highly compensated
employees within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and Department of
Labor Regulations 29 C.F.R.  2520.104-23, and shall be so
construed.  This amended and restated Plan is effective as of January
1, 2005. 

ARTICLE
I 

         DEFINITIONS  

1.1 

Accrued
      Benefit  or  Accrued Retirement Benefit  means, as of any date, the
      Retirement Benefit computed in accordance with Article IV, based on the
      Participant s Pensionable Earnings on such date, and assuming termination
      occurred on the Normal Retirement Date, multiplied by a fraction. The
      numerator of the fraction shall be the Participant s actual years of
      Credited Service and the denominator shall be the years of Credited
      Service he would have completed if he had continued in employment until
      his Normal Retirement Date. 

1.2 

Actuarial
      Equivalent  means the value of the Retirement Benefit otherwise payable to
      a Participant determined in accordance with the actuarial equivalent
      factors selected by the Company and in effect at the time the computation
      is made. 

1.3 

Annuity
      Commencement Date  means the first day of the month in which a
      Participant s Retirement Benefit is due to commence pursuant to the
      provisions of the Plan. 

1.4 

Associate
      Employer  means Caterpillar Inc. its subsidiaries and divisions, excluding
      Solar Turbines Incorporated, its subsidiaries and
    divisions. 

1.5 

Beneficiary 
      means the person designated in writing by a Participant to receive any
      death benefit payments hereunder. 

1.7 

Company 
      means Solar Turbines Incorporated and all of its subsidiaries and
      divisions. 

1.8 

Compensation 
      means the amount of base salary paid to a Participant in a month during
      which he is an EFSE and a Participant under the provisions of this Plan;
      subject to the following: 

For Participants
who are eligible for the Company s Target Total Cash Compensation under plans in
effect on and after January 1, 1985, Compensation will include a Participant s
job rate, performance incentive, merit alternative if applicable, bookings,
margin and/or revenue incentives. However, the cumulative total of bookings,
margin and/or revenue incentives earned for the includable period cannot exceed
the cumulative total of the related bookings, margin or revenue incentive target
amount for the same period. 

Payments for bonus,
premiums, living allowance, differentials or any other additional compensation
will not be included. 

1.9 

Converted
      Pension  means the retirement benefit due a Participant or Beneficiary and
      converted into a currency other than U.S. Dollars. A  Converted Pension 
      election can be exercised only at the time a benefit is due from the Plan
      and must be approved by the Company. Once a  Converted Pension  payment is
      selected and approved it is
irrevocable. 

1.10 

Credited
      Service  means all full years and full months of continuous service, not
      to exceed 35 years, with the Company while an EFSE and a Participant under
      the provisions of this Plan. Time spent on an approved paid leave of
      absence shall be considered as continuous service for purposes of this
      Plan, provided the leave is ended by return to work, retirement, death or
      disability. 

Time spent on
approved unpaid leave of absence in excess of 30 days for other than total
disability, shall be deducted from continuous service. A Participant who fails
to return to work from an approved leave of absence shall be considered as
having terminated his employment on the last day that he was at
work. 

Once an employee is
designated as an EFSE, all prior credited service under a Company Sponsored
Pension Plan shall be considered Credited Service for the purpose of accruing
benefits under this Plan. However, for Employees who are designated as EFSEs on
or after July 1, 1999, Credited Service shall only include continuous service
while an EFSE. 

1.11 

Disability 
      means total and permanent disability of a Participant due to bodily or
      mental injury, sickness or disease, which prevents him from engaging in
      any employment or occupation for remuneration or profit for more than six
      months. Such total disability chart be determined on the basis of a
      medical examination by a qualified physician selected by the
      Company. 

The definition of
Disability shall  not  include illness
or injury resulting from: 

(A) 

chronic
      alcoholism; or 

(B) 

addiction to
      narcotics; or 

(C) 

injury
      suffered while engaged in a felonious or criminal act or enterprise;
      or 

(D) 

service in
      the armed forces; or 

(E) 

participation
      in war or act of war. 

1.12 

European
      Foreign Service Employee (EFSE)  means an employee designated as such by
      the Company. 

1.13 

Married
      Participant  means a Participant who is lawfully married on the date
      Retirement Benefits become payable pursuant to Articles IV, V or
      VI. 

1.14 

Participant 
      means an Employee designated pursuant to Article II and who continues to
      be entitled to any benefits under the
Plan. 

1.15 

Pensionable
      Earnings  means the average Compensation which has been paid to a
      Participant on account of continuous service during those 36 consecutive
      months of EFSE employment, included within the last 60 full months of his
      EFSE employment prior to Normal Retirement (or actual period of
      employment, if less) for which he received his highest compensation during
      such periods. 

A Participant who
has ten (10) years or more of continuous service and who is over fifty-five (55)
years of age, is transferred prior to retirement to a part-time status without
interruption of continuity of service, his Pensionable Earnings shall be
determined by the Company as if such employee has retired when placed on a
part-time status. 

1.16 

Plan  means
      the Solar Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan for European Foreign Service
      Employees as herein set forth and as it may thereafter be amended from
      time to time. 

1.18 

Social
      Security Benefit  means all benefits (including the actuarial equivalent
      of lump sum benefits expressed as a lifetime pension) available to the
      Participant as of his Normal Retirement Date under the provisions of
      governmental, provincial or state Social Security Act(s). If a Participant
      terminates his employment before Normal Retirement, his Social Security
      Benefit will be estimated by assuming: a) that he will receive no further
      earnings if he then satisfies the requirements for Early Retirement or
      Disability Retirement under Article III; or b) that his earnings will
      continue at the same rate as in effect on the date of termination of
      employment if he does not then satisfy the requirements for Early
      Retirement or Disability Retirement under Article
  III. 

The Company may
adopt rules governing the computation of such amounts, and the fact that the
Participant does not actually receive such amounts because or failure to apply,
or continuance or work, or for any other reason, shall be
disregarded. 

1.19 

Retirement
      Benefit  means the benefits provided to Participants and their
      Beneficiaries in accordance with the applicable provisions of Articles IV,
      V and VI. The Retirement Benefit will be computed in U.S. Dollars and is
      normally paid in U.S. Dollars. 

1.20 

Vested
      Percentage  means a Participant s right to an Accrued Benefit pursuant to
      Article X. 

ARTICLE
II 

         ELIGIBILITY AND
SERVICE  

2.1 

Each Employee
      designated as a European Foreign Service Employee (EFSE) who commenced
      employment with the Company on or before January 1, 1987, shall become a
      Participant on the Effective Date. 

Other Employees
shall become Participants coincident with or on the first day of the month next
following their designation as an EFSE. 

In the event a
Participant terminates his employment, he shall resume participation in the Plan
as of the date he is subsequently reemployed by the Company as an
EFSE. 

ARTICLE
III 

         RETIREMENT
DATES  

3.1 

Normal Retirement
      Date . A Participant s Normal Retirement Date shall be the first day
      of the month coinciding with or next following his 65th birthday. A
      Participant whose employment is terminated on his Normal Retirement Date
      shall be considered to have retired and shall receive a Normal Retirement
      Benefit in accordance with Article
IV. 

3.2 

Early Retirement
      Date . Each Participant whose employment is terminated prior to his
      Normal Retirement Date, but after he has attained age 55 and completed at
      least 10 years of Credited Service, may elect to retire with the approval
      of the Company.  Such Participant s Early Retirement Date shall
      be the first day of the month next following the month in which such
      termination of employment occurs. Early Retirement benefits will be
      determined in accordance with Article
IV. 

3.3 

Late Retirement
      Date . Each Participant may continue his service with the Company
      after the Normal Retirement Date with the approval of the Company. No
      payment of any benefit shall be made to such Participant until his actual
      retirement. The Participant will not earn any Credited Service after the
      Normal Retirement Date, and will be paid in accordance with Article
      IV. 

3.4 

Disability Retirement
      Date . A Participant whose employment is terminated prior to his
      Normal Retirement Date by reason of a Disability, as defined in Section
      1.11, shall be eligible for Disability Retirement and shall receive a
      benefit in accordance with Article
V. 

ARTICLE
IV 

         BENEFITS  

4.1 

Normal
      Retirement . A Participant retiring on his Normal Retirement Date
      shall be entitled, commencing on such date, to receive a monthly
      Retirement Benefit for life computed in accordance with the provisions of
      Section 4.5. 

4.2 

Early
      Retirement . A Participant retiring on his Early Retirement Date
      shall be entitled to receive a deferred Retirement Benefit, commencing on
      his Normal Retirement Date, equal to 100% of his Accrued
      Benefit.  A reduced Retirement Benefit can be elected prior to
      the Normal Retirement Date, equal to 100% of the Accrued Benefit, but
      reduced by 1/240th for each month that the date of commencement precedes
      the Participant s Normal Retirement
Date. 

4.3 

Late
      Retirement . A Participant retiring on his Late Retirement Date
      shall be entitled, commencing on such date, to receive a monthly
      Retirement Benefit for life. Such Late Retirement Benefit will be
      determined as the Actuarial Equivalent of the Normal Retirement benefit
      computed as of the Participant s Normal Retirement
  Date. 

4.4 

Vested
      Benefits . A Participant who has terminated employment after the
      Effective Date with a Vested Percentage, shall be entitled to receive a
      deferred monthly benefit commencing on his Normal Retirement Date equal to
      his Accrued Benefit.  Alternatively, a reduced monthly benefit
      can be elected to commence after attainment of age 55, computed in
      accordance with Section 4.2. 

4.5 

Form of Normal
      Retirement Benefit . Subject to Article VIII, the primary form of
      Retirement Benefit payable to a Participant shall be a monthly annuity
      payable to the Participant for life, equal to (A) minus the aggregate of
      (B), (C), and (D).  In no event, however, shall the monthly
      annuity amount calculated pursuant to this Section 4.5 exceed the amount
      set forth in (E). 

(A) 

.0175 times
      Credited Service times Pensionable
Earnings. 

(B) 

100% of the
      monthly benefits for old age pension to which the Participant is entitled
      as a result of service with the Company and which the Participant can
      collect (or has collected or could collect by proper application) under
      any compulsory program, i.e. Social Security Benefits, a compulsory
      benefit payable as a result of union or collective bargaining agreements,
      and governmental decrees or directives having the force of law. For
      purposes of this Article IV, such offsets shall exclude benefits payable
      to the spouse (or other family members) which are attributable to the
      Participant s service with the Company, and for which the Company did not
      make additional contributions. 

Normal Retirement
Benefits shall be determined assuming the Participant is eligible to receive
Social Security Benefits. If the Participant is not eligible for Social Security
Benefits, or receives Social Security Benefits in a lesser amount than
determined under the Plan, it is the Participant s responsibility to provide
proof either of ineligibility or the amount of the actual Social Security
Benefit received. Proof must be submitted within 60 days following the date of
retirement. 

(C) 

100% of the
      monthly benefits for old age pension (based on a straight life annuity)
      which the Participant is entitled to under any formal or informal private
      benefit plan established by the Company or Associate Company in any
      country, except to the extent that if the Participant was required to
      contribute to the program only 50% of such benefits will be
      considered. 

(D) 

The actuarial
      equivalent of any lump sum termination indemnity as a lifetime monthly
      income multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is years of
      participation in this Plan and the denominator of which is the total years
      of service used to determine the indemnity benefit. For purposes of this
      Section 4.5(D), only lump sum termination indemnities which represent
      payment of the Participant s accrued pension liability shall be
      included. 

(E) 

Notwithstanding
      anything provision of this Section to the contrary, the benefit payable
      hereunder shall be subject to the limitations on retirement income set
      forth in final Treasury Regulations issued under Section 415 of the Code
      and any other regulations, rulings or other administrative guidance issued
      pursuant thereto by the Internal Revenue Service, to the same extent as if
      such regulations, rulings and guidance applied to this
    Plan. 

ARTICLE
V 

         DISABILITY
PENSION  

5.1 

Disability
      Pension . In the event the Participant becomes disabled in
      accordance with Section 1.11 when he is an EFSE and a Participant under
      the provisions of this Plan, he shall be entitled to a pension calculated
      in accordance with Section 4.5 except
that: 

(A) 

Pensionable
      Earnings shall mean that annual compensation being paid to the Participant
      on the date disability commenced,
and 

(B) 

Credited
      Service shall be deemed to include the years and months between the date
      disability commenced and the Participant s Normal Retirement
      Date. 

ARTICLE
VI 

         PRERETIREMENT SPOUSES AND
ORPHANS PENSION  

6.1 

Preretirement Spouses
      and Orphans Pension . In the event the Participant dies prior to his
      Normal Retirement Date there shall be paid to his Spouse a pension equal
      to 50% of the pension calculated in accordance with Section 5.1. In
      addition there shall be paid to each eligible child a pension equal to 10%
      of the amount determined in Section 5.1, such amount shall be doubled if
      the spouse of the Participant has predeceased him. The total of all
      amounts paid under this Section shall not exceed 100% of the amount
      calculated in accordance with Section
5.1. 

An Eligible Child
is a child of the Participant who is the natural, adopted, step-child, or a
child for whom the Participant has legal responsibility, who has not yet
attained age 19, or age 25 if a full time student. Once a child is no longer an
Eligible Child his pension shall cease. 

Any pension being
paid to the spouse of a Participant shall be paid for lifetime except such
pension shall cease in the event of remarriage of such spouse. 

In the event the
Participant is not married and has no Eligible Children there shall be paid an
amount equal to two times the Participant s annual compensation to such
Beneficiaries as he may designate. 

For purposes of
determining the Spouse s and Orphans  benefit, the benefit determined under
Section 5.1 will be reduced by the applicable amount of the spouse s or orphans 
Social Security Benefit, and not the amount of the Participant s Social Security
Benefit. 

ARTICLE
VII 

         MAXIMUM
BENEFITS  

7.1 

Maximum
      Benefits . The maximum pension from all. Company sources may never
      exceed 80% of the Pensionable Earnings. The factors to be considered in
      this limit are: 

(i) 

The
      retirement benefit as calculated in Article IV, V or
  VI. 

(ii) 

Other company
      sponsored plans. 

(iii) 

Social
      Security as defined in Section
1.18. 

(iv) 

Social
      benefits provided by the Company. 

(v) 

The monthly
      equivalent, on an actuarial basis, of any termination
      indemnity. 

7.2 

Reemployment .
      If a retired Participant returns to the employ of the Company, his monthly
      Retirement Benefit shall cease for as long as he continues to be employed.
      During the period of reemployment, the Employee will participate in the
      Plan provided he meets the requirements of Section
  2.1. 

Upon subsequent
retirement, the Participant shall be eligible to recommence a monthly Retirement
Benefit attributable to his Accrued Benefit. However, the amount payable will be
recomputed taking into account such Compensation and Credited Years of Service
as allowed under Article IV, but only to the extent the Participant was an EFSE
during the period of reemployment. Credited Years of Service shall not include
service during the period of retirement prior to reemployment. 

Such recomputed
Retirement Benefit shall be reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent of the value, at
the Participant s subsequent retirement date, of the Accrued Benefit payments
previously received. In no event shall the recomputed Retirement Benefit, after
such Actuarial Equivalent reduction, be less than the Retirement Benefit to
which the Participant was entitled prior to his date of
reemployment. 

7.3 

No
      Participant shall be entitled to receive benefits under this Plan unless
      he meets the requirements of the Company regarding required participation
      in the various Government pension plans in the Participant s home country
      and/or country of assignment, the contributions to such plans are paid
      directly or indirectly by the
Company. 

ARTICLE
VIII 

         MODES OF BENEFIT
PAYMENT  

8.1 

Retirement
      Benefit . Subject to the other provisions of this Article, a
      Participant may elect to have the Retirement Benefits paid under any of
      the optional forms of payment described in Section
  8.2. 

8.2 

Optional Modes of
      Payment . A Participant may elect to receive Retirement Benefits
      under any one of the following
options: 

(A) 

Joint and Survivor
      Annuity : 

A reduced rate of
Retirement Benefit during his lifetime, with income at 50%, 75% or 100%,
whichever the Participant elects, of that reduced rate continuing to his
Beneficiary. The Joint and Survivor Annuity will be the Actuarial Equivalent of
the Retirement Benefit provided under Article IV or V. 

(B) 

Years Certain and Life
      Annuity : 

A Retirement
Benefit which is the Actuarial Equivalent of the Retirement Benefit provided
under Section 4.5, payable for his lifetime, but guaranteed for a period of ten
(10) or twenty (20) years, whichever the Participant elects. 

If the Participant
dies before expiration of the guaranteed period, the remaining certain payments
shall continue to his Beneficiary, or in the absence of a surviving Beneficiary,
the commuted value of such payments shall be paid to the Participant s
estate. 

If the Beneficiary
dies while further payments are due, and after having received at least one (1)
payment, such further payments shall be made to any person designated by the
Participant as an alternate Beneficiary. In the absence of an alternate
surviving Beneficiary, the commuted value of such payments shall be paid to the
estate of the last surviving Beneficiary. 

(C) 

Lump
      Sum : 

A Participant shall
have the option to elect to have the actuarial equivalent of his Accrued Benefit
paid to him in a lump sum. 

Such lump sum
payment shall satisfy the liability of the Company in full, such that if the
Participant were to be subsequently reemployed by the Company, he would be
treated, for purposes of determining his Credited Years of Service, as a new
Employee. 

8.3 

Election of Other
      Options . The following rules and requirements must be met in order
      for any of the options described in Section 8.2 to be
      effective: 

(A) 

The election
      must be made on an appropriate form no later than ninety (90) days prior
      to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date or earlier date of actual
      retirement. 

(B) 

The effective
      date of the option shall be the Participant s Normal Retirement Date or
      earlier date of actual retirement which must be at least ninety (90) days
      after the date on which the election is
made. 

(C) 

The name of
      the Beneficiary and address and relationship to the Participant must be
      stated on the form unless a lump sum is elected. The percentage of the
      Retirement Benefit to the Participant to be continued to the Joint
      Annuitant after the Participant s death, as well as the Beneficiary s sex
      and date of birth, must also be stated on the election form. Proof of date
      of birth, acceptable to the Company, must be submitted within 90 days
      after the election is made. 

(D) 

The consent
      of the Beneficiary shall not be required for the election of an
      option. 

(E) 

The election
      of an option may be cancelled or modified, subject to the same conditions
      that apply to the election of an option. However, the conditions for the
      cancellation or modification of an option may be waived by the Company if,
      in its opinion, the waiver of such conditions would have no adverse
      actuarial effect. A Participant may not change the Contingent Annuitant
      under Section 8.2, paragraph (A), other than by modification of the option
      in accordance with the foregoing rules. The election of an option may not
      be cancelled or modified subsequent to the Annuity Commencement
      Date. 

ARTICLE
IX 

         DEATH
BENEFITS  

9.1 

Pre-Retirement 
      - A death benefit will be payable. This benefit will be in accordance with
      Article VI. 

9.2 

Post-Retirement 
      - The benefit payable will be determined by the retirement benefit option
      selected by the participant at date of
  retirement. 

ARTICLE
X 

         VESTING  

10.1 

If a
      Participant s employment terminates for any reason other than Death or
      Disability, he shall have a non-forfeitable right to the Accrued
      Retirement Benefit according to the following
  schedule: 

10.2 

A Participant
      whose employment is terminated for any reason, other than Death,
      Disability, prior to the completion of 5 Years of Credited Service shall
      cease to be a Participant; his Accrued Retirement Benefit will be
      cancelled, and he shall not be entitled to any benefits under the
      Plan. 

10.3 

If the
      Company decides that a Participant is no longer eligible, the
      Participant s Accrued Benefit shall be frozen until he qualifies for a
      pension under any provision in Article
III. 

10.4 

Should a
      Participant resign or be discharged before satisfaction of the
      requirements for a pension under Article III, no person shall have any
      vested claim to benefits under this Plan except as provided in Section
      10.1. Should any Participant die after becoming eligible for retirement
      benefits under the Plan, no person shall have any claim to benefits under
      this Plan except as provided by the Participant through the selection of
      an optional annuity as prescribed by the
  Company. 

10.5 

Any
      Participant who leaves the employ of the Company and is subsequently
      reemployed shall be considered, for purposes of this Plan, as a new
      Employee from the date of his reemployment, unless otherwise determined by
      the Company. 

10.6 

For the
      calculation of credited service, all service as a European Foreign Service
      Employee or previously known as International Employees or European
      Employees shall be counted. 

ARTICLE
XI 

         CONTRIBUTIONS  

11.1 

Employer
      Contributions . For periods before the effective date of this
      amended and restated Plan, this Section is intended to clarify the Plan as
      in effect since it was established.  Subject to Section 14.1,
      the Company will contribute to an insurance contract such amounts as it
      considers appropriate based on actuarial calculations to provide the
      benefits under this Plan. The Company is under no obligation to make any
      contributions under the Plan after the Plan is terminated, whether or not
      benefits accrued or vested prior to such date or termination have been
      fully funded. 

ARTICLE
XII 

         ADMINISTRATION OF THE
PLAN  

12.1 

This Plan is
      administered by the Company. 

The Company shall
have the power and authority to interpret the provisions of this Plan and to
devise and make effective from time to time such procedures as may, in its
judgment, be advisable and necessary to carry out said provisions. Whenever, in
the Company s opinion, a person entitled to receive any payment of a benefit or
installment thereof hereunder is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in
any way so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Company
may direct payments to such person or to his legal representative for his
benefit, or to apply the payment for the benefit of such person in such manner
as the Company considers advisable. Determination by the Company as to the
interpretation and application of this Plan shall be conclusive on all parties
and its action shall not be subject to any review. 

The Company
reserves the right to carefully review the situation of each employee and if
necessary, to modify the provisions of this Plan to adapt the underlying
philosophy and objectives to a particular employee or employment
situation. 

Nothing
contemplated herein shall be inconsistent with any applicable provisions of Code
Section 409A. 

ARTICLE
XIII 

         AMENDMENT OR
TERMINATION  

13.1 

The Company
      reserves the right at any time, and from time to time, to modify or amend,
      in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan. However, no
      amendment or modification shall make it possible to deprive any
      Participant of a previous Accrued Vested Retirement
    Benefit. 

No amendment which
becomes effective subsequent to the most recent retirement or other termination
of employment of a Participant, shall in any way affect the amount or conditions
of payment of any benefit to which such Participant is, or may become, entitled
hereunder, except to the extent expressly so provided in such
amendment. 

13.2 

While the
      Company intends to continue the Plan indefinitely, nevertheless it assumes
      no contractual obligation as to its continuance and the Company may
      terminate the Plan. 

However, if for any
unforeseen reason the Plan is terminated, the Participant retains the right to
the Accrued Vested Retirement Benefit determined as of the date of
termination. 

ARTICLE
XIV 

         GENERAL
PROVISIONS  

14.1 

For periods
      before the effective date of this amended and restated Plan, this Section
      is intended to clarify the Plan as in effect since it was
      established.  To the extent that the Company acquires or holds
      designated assets in connection with its obligation hereunder (including
      the insurance contract described in Section 11.1), the Plan at all times
      shall nonetheless be entirely unfunded, and the right of a Participant or
      his Beneficiary to receive benefits under the Plan shall be an unsecured
      claim against such assets.  All amounts accrued by Participants
      hereunder, or designated assets acquired or held by the Company in
      connection with its obligation hereunder, shall constitute general assets
      of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for
      such purposes as it may deem appropriate.  The Company will make
      contributions to an insurance contract pursuant to Section 11.1, but any
      assets thereof shall be available to pay the claims of the Company s
      general creditors in the event of the Company s
  insolvency. 

14.2 

This Plan
      shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Company and any
      Employee or other person whether or not in the employ of the Company, nor
      shall anything herein contained be deemed to give any Employee or other
      person, whether or not in the employ of the Company, any right to be
      retained in the employ of the Company, or to interfere with the right of
      the Company to discharge any Employee at any time and to treat him without
      regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him as
      Participant of the Plan. 

14.3 

Except as may
      otherwise be provided by law, no distribution or payment under the Plan to
      any Participant or Beneficiary shall be subject in any manner to
      anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance
      or charge, whether voluntary or involuntary, and any attempt to so
      anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge
      the same shall be void; nor shall any such distribution or payment be in
      any way liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities,
      engagements or torts of any person entitled to such distribution or
      payment, voluntarily or
involuntarily. 

The Company, in its
discretion, may hold, or cause to be held or applied, such distribution or
payment or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such Participant or
Beneficiary, in such manner as the Company shall direct. 

14.4 

If the
      Company determines that any person entitled to payments under the Plan is
      an infant, or incompetent by reason of physical or mental disability, it
      may cause all payments thereafter becoming due to such person to be made
      to any other person for the benefit of the person entitled to payment,
      without responsibility to follow applications of amounts so
      paid. 

14.5 

Subject to
      Section 14.1, the insurance contract and other designated assets acquired
      and held by the Company in connection with its obligation hereunder shall
      be the sole source of benefits under this Plan, and each Employee,
      Participant, Beneficiary, or any other person who shall claim the right to
      any payment or benefit under this Plan shall be entitled to look only to
      the insurance contract and such assets for payment of benefits. The
      Company shall have no further liability to make or continue from its own
      funds the payment of any benefit under the
Plan. 

14.6 

If it is
      determined that the benefits under the Plan should be have been paid or
      should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be
      given to the recipient of such benefits (or his legal representative) and
      he shall repay the amount of overpayment to the Company.  If he
      fails to repay such amount of overpayment promptly, the Company shall
      arrange to recover for the Plan the amount of the overpayment by making an
      appropriate deduction or deductions from any future benefit payment or
      payments payable to that person (or his survivor or beneficiary) under the
      Plan or from any other benefit plan of the
  Company. 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-11>
 7
 ex_11.htm
 COMPUTATIONS OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

ex_11.htm 

1 Profit
      attributable to common
stockholders. 

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 8
 ex_12.htm
 COMPUTATIONS OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

ex_12.htm 

(1) Consolidated
      profit before taxes 

(2  ) Considered
      to be representative of interest factor in rental
  expense 

(3  ) Does
      not include interest on income taxes and other non-third-party
      indebtedness 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 9
 ex_13.htm
 GENERAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR 2009

ex_13.htm 

EXHIBIT
13 

CATERPILLAR INC. 

        GENERAL
AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

        2009 

A-1 

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS 

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
      Reporting  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm  

Consolidated Financial Statements  and  Notes  

Five-year Financial Summary  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations (MD A)  

Overview  

2009 Compared with 2008  

Fourth Quarter 2009 Compared with Fourth Quarter
      2008  

2008 Compared with 2007  

Glossary of Terms  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Employment  

Other Matters  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

Outlook  

Supplemental Stockholder Information  

Directors and
Officers  

A-2 

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT  ON 

                      INTERNAL
      CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

The management of
Caterpillar Inc. (company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management assessed
the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework . Based on our assessment we concluded that,
as of December 31, 2009, the company's internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria. 

The effectiveness
of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm. Their report appears on
page A-4. 

/s/
      James W. Owens   

James W.
      Owens 

                      Chairman of
      the Board 

                      and Chief
      Executive Officer 

/s/
      David B. Burritt   

David B.
      Burritt 

                      Vice
      President and 

                       Chief
      Financial Officer 

February 19,
      2010 

A-3 

REPORT  OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Caterpillar Inc.: 

In our opinion, the
accompanying consolidated financial position and the related consolidated
statements of results of operations, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash
flow, including pages A-5 through A-62, present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting appearing on page A-3.  Our responsibility is to express
opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control
over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

As discussed in
Note 1K to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner
in which it measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value in 2008 and
the manner in which it accounts for uncertainty in income taxes in
2007. 

A company's
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP  

              Peoria,
Illinois 

              February 19,
2010 

A-4 

1  

Profit
      attributable to common stockholders. 

2  

Diluted by
      assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury
      stock method. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

A-5 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

A-6 

(Continued) 

A-7 

1  

Pension and
      other postretirement benefits include net adjustments for Cat Japan Ltd,
      while they were an unconsolidated affiliate, of $(9) million in
      2007.   The ending balance is $(52) million as of December
      31, 2007.  See Notes 25 and 26 regarding the Cat Japan share
      redemption. 

2  

Adjustments
      were made to adopt the measurement date provision of the accounting
      standard on employers' accounting for defined benefits pension and other
      postretirement plans.  Adjustments to Profit employed in the
      business and pension and other postemployment benefits were net of tax of
      $(17) million and $9 million, respectively.  See Note 1K for
      additional information. 

3  

Amount
      consists of $1,800 million of cash-settled purchases and $94 million of
      derivative contracts. 

4  

See Notes 25
      and 26 regarding the Cat Japan share redemption. 

5  

Includes
      noncredit component of other-than-temporary impairment losses on retained
      interests of $(8) million, net of tax of $4 million, for the twelve months
      ended December 31, 2009.   See Note 8 and 19 for additional
      information. 

6  

See Note 14
      regarding shares issued for benefit plans. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

A-8 

All
      short-term investments, which consist primarily of highly liquid
      investments with original maturities of three months or less, are
      considered to be cash equivalents. 

Non-cash
      activities: 

During
      2009, we contributed 19.6 million shares of company stock with a fair
      value of $718 million to our U.S. benefit plans. See Note 14 for further
      discussion. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

A-9 

NOTES  TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
  STATEMENTS 

1. 

Operations
      and summary of significant accounting policies 

A. 

Nature
      of operations 

We operate in
      three principal lines of business: 

(1) 

Machinery   -  A principal line of
      business which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of
      construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel tractors,
      track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products, skid steer loaders, underground mining equipment, tunnel boring
      equipment and related parts. Also includes logistics services for other
      companies and the design, manufacture, remanufacture, maintenance and
      services of rail-related products. 

(2) 

Engines -  A principal
      line of business including the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of
      engines for Caterpillar machinery, electric power generation systems,
      locomotives, marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural and
      other applications, and related parts.  Also includes
      remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and a variety of Caterpillar
      machine and engine components and remanufacturing services for other
      companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power needs ranging from
      10 to 21,800 horsepower (8 to over 16 000 kilowatts).  Turbines
      range from 1,600 to 30,000 horsepower (1 200 to 22 000
      kilowatts). 

(3) 

Financial Products -  A
      principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc.
      (Cat Insurance) and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat
      Financial provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and
      dealers for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well
      as other equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also
      extends loans to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides
      various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the
      purchase and lease of our equipment. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations are highly integrated. Throughout the Notes,
      Machinery and Engines represents the aggregate total of these principal
      lines of business. 

Our products
      are sold primarily under the brands "Caterpillar," "CAT," design versions
      of "CAT" and "Caterpillar," "Solar Turbines,"  MaK," "Perkins," "FG
      Wilson," "Olympian" and  Progress Rail.  

We conduct
      operations in our Machinery and Engines lines of business under highly
      competitive conditions, including intense price competition. We place
      great emphasis on the high quality and performance of our products and our
      dealers' service support. Although no one competitor is believed to
      produce all of the same types of machines and engines that we do, there
      are numerous companies, large and small, which compete with us in the sale
      of each of our products. 

Machines are
      distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers
      (dealer network), 51 located in the United States and 127 located outside
      the United States. Worldwide, these dealers serve 182 countries and
      operate 3,518 places of business, including 1,407 dealer rental
      outlets.  Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the
      dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in products manufactured
      by them. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins are
      also sold through a worldwide network of 129 distributors located in 165
      countries. The FG Wilson branded electric power generation systems are
      sold through a worldwide network of 157 dealers located in 180
      countries.  Some of the large, medium speed reciprocating
      engines are also sold  under the MaK brand through a worldwide
      network of 19 dealers located in 130 countries.  Our dealers do
      not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and
      servicing of our products are the dealers' principal business. Turbines
      are sold through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these
      employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

Manufacturing
      activities of the Machinery and Engines lines of business are conducted in
      96 plants in the United States; 16 in the United Kingdom; nine in Italy;
      eight each in China and Mexico; five each in Canada and France; four in
      Brazil; three each in Australia, India, and Poland; two each in Germany,
      Indonesia, Japan and the Netherlands; and one each in Belgium, Hungary,
      Malaysia, Nigeria, Russia, Switzerland and Tunisia. Twelve parts
      distribution centers are located in the United States and 17 are located
      outside the United States. 

The Financial
      Products line of business also conducts operations under highly
      competitive conditions. Financing for users of Caterpillar products is
      available through a variety of competitive sources, principally commercial
      banks and finance and leasing companies. We emphasize prompt and
      responsive service to meet customer requirements and offer various
      financing plans designed to increase the opportunity for sales of our
      products and generate financing income for our company. Financial Products
      activity is conducted primarily in the United States, with additional
      offices in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and Latin
    America. 

B. 

Basis
      of consolidation 

The financial
      statements include the accounts of Caterpillar Inc. and its
      subsidiaries.  Investments in companies that are owned 20% to
      50% or are less than 20% owned and for which we have significant influence
      are accounted for by the equity method.  See Note 11 for further
      discussion. 

A-10 

We consolidate
      all variable interest entities (VIEs) where Caterpillar Inc. is the
      primary beneficiary.  For VIEs, we assess whether we are the
      primary beneficiary as prescribed by the accounting guidance on the
      consolidation of VIEs.  The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the
      party that absorbs a majority of the entity's expected losses, receives a
      majority of its expected residual returns, or both. 

Certain
      amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with the
      current-year financial statement presentation. 

Shipping and
      handling costs are included in Cost of goods sold in Statement
      1.  Other operating (income) expenses primarily include Cat
      Financial's depreciation of equipment leased to others, Cat Insurance's
      underwriting expenses, gains (losses) on disposal of long-lived assets,
      long-lived asset impairment charges, employee separation charges and
      benefit plan curtailment, settlement and special termination
      benefits. 

Prepaid
      expenses and other current assets in Statement 2 include prepaid rent,
      prepaid insurance and other prepaid items.  In addition, at
      December 31, 2008, this line included a security deposit of $232 million
      related to a deposit obligation due in 2009.  See Note 16 for
      further discussion. 

We have
      performed a review of subsequent events through February 19, 2010, the
      date the financial statements were issued, and concluded there were no
      events or transactions occurring during this period that required
      recognition or disclosure in our financial statements. 

C. 

Sales
      and revenue recognition 

Sales of
      Machinery and Engines are generally recognized when title transfers and
      the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to customers or
      independently owned and operated dealers.  Typically, where
      product is produced and sold in the same country, title and risk of
      ownership transfer when the product is shipped.  Products that
      are exported from a country for sale typically pass title and risk of
      ownership at the border of the destination country. 

Sales of
      certain turbine machinery units are recognized under accounting for
      construction-type contracts, primarily using the percentage-of-completion
      method.  Revenue is recognized based upon progress towards
      completion, which is estimated and continually updated over the course of
      construction.  We provide for any loss that we expect to incur
      on these contracts when that loss is probable. 

No right of
      return exists on sales of equipment.  Replacement part returns
      are estimable and accrued at the time a sale is recognized. 

We provide
      discounts to dealers through merchandising programs.  We have
      numerous programs that are designed to promote the sale of our
      products.  The most common dealer programs provide a discount
      when the dealer sells a product to a targeted end user.  The
      cost of these discounts is estimated based on historical experience and
      known changes in merchandising programs and is reported as a reduction to
      sales when the product sale is recognized. 

Our standard
      invoice terms are established by marketing region. When a sale is made to
      a dealer, the dealer is responsible for payment even if the product is not
      sold to an end customer and must make payment within the standard terms to
      avoid interest costs. Interest at or above prevailing market rates is
      charged on any past due balance. Our policy is to not forgive this
      interest.  In 2009 and 2008, terms were extended to not more
      than one year for $312 million and $544 million of receivables,
      respectively, which represent approximately 1% of consolidated
      sales.   In 2007, terms were extended to not more than one
      year for $219 million of receivables, which represent less than 1% of
      consolidated sales. 

Sales with
      payment terms of two months or more were as
  follows: 

We establish a
      bad debt allowance for Machinery and Engines receivables when it becomes
      probable that the receivable will not be collected.  Our
      allowance for bad debts is not
significant. 

A-11 

Revenues of
      Financial Products primarily represent the following Cat Financial
      revenues: 

Retail
      (end-customer) finance revenue on finance leases and installment sale
      contracts is recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate
      of return on the scheduled outstanding principal
      balance.  Revenue on retail notes is recognized based on the
      daily balance of retail receivables outstanding and the applicable
      effective interest rate. 

Operating
      lease revenue is recorded on a straight-line basis in the period earned
      over the life of the contract. 

Wholesale
      (dealer) finance revenue on installment contracts and finance leases is
      recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate of return on
      the scheduled outstanding principal balance.  Revenue on
      wholesale notes is recognized based on the daily balance of wholesale
      receivables outstanding and the applicable effective interest
      rate. 

Loan
      origination and commitment fees are deferred and then amortized to revenue
      using the interest method over the life of the finance
      receivables. 

Recognition of
      income is suspended when collection of future income is not probable.
      Accrual is resumed, and previously suspended income is recognized, when
      the receivable becomes contractually current and/or collection doubts are
      removed. Cat Financial provides wholesale inventory financing to dealers.
      See Notes 7 and 8 for more information. 

Sales and
      revenues are presented net of sales and other related taxes. 

D. 

Inventories 

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is principally determined
      using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The value of inventories on
      the LIFO basis represented about 70% of total inventories at December 31,
      2009 and 2008, and about 75% of total inventories at December 31,
      2007. 

If the FIFO
      (first-in, first-out) method had been in use, inventories would have been
      $3,003 million, $3,183 million and $2,617 million higher than reported at
      December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

E. 

Securitized
      receivables 

Cat Financial
      periodically sells finance receivables in securitization transactions.
      When finance receivables are securitized, Cat Financial retains interests
      in the receivables in the form of subordinated certificates, an interest
      in future cash flows (excess), reserve accounts and servicing rights. The
      retained interests are recorded in Other assets at fair value. Cat
      Financial estimates fair value and cash flows using a valuation model and
      key assumptions for credit losses, prepayment rates and discount rates.
      See Note 8 and Note 19 for more information. 

F. 

Depreciation
      and amortization 

Depreciation
      of plant and equipment is computed principally using accelerated methods.
      Depreciation on equipment leased to others, primarily for Financial
      Products, is computed using the straight-line method over the term of the
      lease. The depreciable basis is the original cost of the equipment less
      the estimated residual value of the equipment at the end of the lease
      term. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, Cat Financial depreciation on equipment
      leased to others was $713 million, $724 million and $671 million,
      respectively, and was included in Other operating (income) expenses in
      Statement 1. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, consolidated depreciation expense was
      $2,254 million, $1,907 million and $1,725 million, respectively.
      Amortization of purchased intangibles is computed principally using the
      straight-line method, generally not to exceed a period of 20
      years. 

G. 

Foreign
      currency translation 

The functional
      currency for most of our Machinery and Engines consolidated companies is
      the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our Financial
      Products and affiliates accounted for under the equity method is the
      respective local currency.  Gains and losses resulting from the
      translation of foreign currency amounts to the functional currency are
      included in Other income (expense) in Statement 1. Gains and losses
      resulting from translating assets and liabilities from the functional
      currency to U.S. dollars are included in Accumulated other comprehensive
      income (loss) in Statement 2. 

H. 

Derivative
      financial instruments 

Our earnings
      and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign
      currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity
      prices.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy) allows for the use
      of derivative financial instruments to prudently manage foreign currency
      exchange rate, interest rate, commodity price and Caterpillar stock price
      exposures and not for the purpose of creating speculative
      positions.  Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign
      currency forward and option contracts, interest rate swaps, commodity
      forward and option contracts and stock repurchase contracts. All
      derivatives are recorded at fair value.  See Note 3 for more
      information. 

A-12 

I. 

Income
      taxes 

The provision
      for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability
      approach.  Tax laws require items to be included in tax filings
      at different times than the items are reflected in the financial
      statements.  A current liability is recognized for the estimated
      taxes payable for the current year.  Deferred taxes represent
      the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of
      assets and liabilities are recovered or paid.  Deferred taxes
      are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax
      laws.  Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax
      assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be
      realized. 

J.  
                                         
                                            Estimates
      in financial statements 

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
      management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts.
      The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased assets,
      fair values for goodwill impairment tests, impairment of
      available-for-sale securities, warranty liability, stock-based
      compensation and reserves for product liability and insurance losses,
      postemployment benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income
      taxes. 

K. 

New
      accounting guidance 

Accounting for uncertainty in
      income taxes    In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
      Board (FASB) issued accounting guidance to create a single model to
      address accounting for uncertainty in tax positions.  This
      guidance clarifies that a tax position must be more likely than not of
      being sustained before being recognized in the financial statements. As
      required, we adopted the provisions of this guidance as of January 1,
      2007.  The following table summarizes the effect of the initial
      adoption of this guidance. See Note 5 for additional
      information. 

Fair value measurements
       - In September 2006, the FASB issued accounting guidance on fair
      value measurements, which provides a common definition of fair value and a
      framework for measuring assets and liabilities at fair values when a
      particular standard prescribes it. In addition, this guidance expands
      disclosures about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB
      issued additional guidance that (1) deferred the effective date of the
      original guidance for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and
      nonfinancial liabilities and (2) removed certain leasing transactions from
      the scope of the original guidance.  We applied this new
      guidance to financial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2008 and
      nonfinancial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2009. The
      adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial
      statements.  See Note 19 for additional
information. 

Employers' accounting for
      defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans  - In
      September 2006, the FASB issued accounting guidance on employers'
      accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
      This guidance requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status
      of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the balance
      sheet.  Under this guidance, gains and losses, prior service
      costs and credits and any remaining transition amounts under previous
      guidance that have not yet been recognized through net periodic benefit
      cost are recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net
      of tax effects, until they are amortized as a component of net periodic
      benefit cost. Also, the measurement date   the date at which the benefit
      obligation and plan assets are measured   is required to be the company's
      fiscal year-end. 

We adopted the
      balance sheet recognition provisions at December 31, 2006. We adopted the
      year-end measurement date effective January 1, 2008 using the  one
      measurement  approach.  Under the one measurement approach, net
      periodic benefit cost for the period between any early measurement date
      and the end of the fiscal year that the measurement provisions are applied
      is allocated proportionately between amounts to be recognized as an
      adjustment of Profit employed in the business and net periodic benefit
      cost for the fiscal year.  Previously, we used a November 30th
      measurement date for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit
      plans and September 30th for our non-U.S. plans.  The following
      summarizes the effect of adopting the year-end measurement date provisions
      as of January 1, 2008.  See Note 14 for additional
      information. 

A-13 

Business combinations and
      noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements  - In
      December 2007, the FASB issued accounting guidance on business
      combinations and noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial
      statements.  The guidance on business combinations requires the
      acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize the assets
      acquired and liabilities assumed. Further, it changes the accounting for
      acquired in-process research and development assets, contingent
      consideration, partial acquisitions and transaction
      costs.  Under the guidance on noncontrolling interests, all
      entities are required to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in
      subsidiaries as equity in the consolidated financial statements. In
      addition, transactions between an entity and noncontrolling interests are
      treated as equity transactions.  We adopted this new guidance on
      January 1, 2009.  As required, the guidance on noncontrolling
      interests was adopted through retrospective application, and all prior
      period information has been adjusted accordingly. The adoption of this
      guidance did not have a material impact on our financial
      statements.  See Note 25 for further details. 

Disclosures about derivative
      instruments and hedging activities  - In March 2008, the FASB issued
      accounting guidance on disclosures about derivative instruments and
      hedging activities.  This guidance expands disclosures for
      derivative instruments by requiring entities to disclose the fair value of
      derivative instruments and their gains or losses in tabular
      format.  It also requires disclosure of information about credit
      risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements, counterparty
      credit risk, and strategies and objectives for using derivative
      instruments.  We adopted this new guidance on January 1,
      2009.  The adoption of this guidance did not have a material
      impact on our financial statements.  See Note 3 for additional
      information. 

Employers' disclosures about
      postretirement benefit plan assets  -   In December 2008,
      the FASB issued accounting guidance on employers' disclosures about
      postretirement benefit plan assets. This guidance expands the disclosure
      set forth in previous guidance by adding required disclosures about (1)
      how investment allocation decisions are made by management, (2) major
      categories of plan assets, and (3) significant concentration of risk.
      Additionally, this guidance requires an employer to disclose information
      about the valuation of plan assets similar to that required under the
      accounting guidance on fair value measurements.  We adopted this
      guidance for our financial statements for the annual period ending
      December 31, 2009.  The adoption of this guidance did not have a
      material impact on our financial statements. See Note 14 for additional
      information. 

Recognition and presentation of
      other-than-temporary impairments  -   In April 2009, the
      FASB issued accounting guidance on the recognition and presentation of
      other-than-temporary impairments.  This new guidance amends the
      existing impairment guidance relating to certain debt securities and
      requires a company to assess the likelihood of selling the security prior
      to recovering its cost basis.  When a security meets the
      criteria for impairment, the impairment charges related to credit losses
      would be recognized in earnings, while noncredit losses would be reflected
      in other comprehensive income.  Additionally, it requires a more
      detailed, risk-oriented breakdown of major security types and related
      information. We adopted this guidance on April 1, 2009.  The
      adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial
      statements.  See Notes 8 and 13 for additional
      information. 

Subsequent events  - In
      May 2009, the FASB issued accounting guidance on subsequent events that
      establishes standards of accounting for and disclosure of subsequent
      events.  In addition, it requires disclosure of the date through
      which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that
      date.  This new guidance was adopted for our financial
      statements for the quarterly period ending June 30, 2009.  The
      adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial
      statements.  See Note 1B for additional
information. 

Accounting for transfers of
      financial assets  - In June 2009, the FASB issued accounting
      guidance on accounting for transfers of financial assets.  This
      guidance amends previous guidance by including: the elimination of the
      qualifying special-purpose entity (QSPE) concept; a new participating
      interest definition that must be met for transfers of portions of
      financial assets to be eligible for sale accounting; clarifications and
      changes to the derecognition criteria for a transfer to be accounted for
      as a sale; and a change to the amount of recognized gain or loss on a
      transfer of financial assets accounted for as a sale when beneficial
      interests are received by the transferor.  Additionally, the
      guidance requires extensive new disclosures regarding an entity's
      involvement in a transfer of financial assets.  Finally,
      existing QSPEs (prior to the effective date of this guidance) must be
      evaluated for consolidation by reporting entities in accordance with the
      applicable consolidation guidance upon the elimination of this
      concept.  We will adopt this new guidance effective January 1,
      2010.  We do not expect the adoption of this guidance will have
      a material impact on our financial
statements. 

A-14 

Consolidation of variable
      interest entities  -   In June 2009, the
      FASB issued accounting guidance on the consolidation of VIEs. This new
      guidance revises previous guidance by eliminating the exemption for
      qualifying special purpose entities, by establishing a new approach for
      determining who should consolidate a VIE and by changing when it is
      necessary to reassess who should consolidate a VIE.  We will
      adopt this new guidance effective January 1, 2010.  The adoption
      of this guidance will result in the consolidation of certain QSPEs related
      to Cat Financial's asset-backed securitization program that are currently
      not recorded on our consolidated financial statements.  See Note
      8 for additional information.  We do not expect the adoption of
      this guidance will have a material impact on our financial
      statements. 

L. 

Goodwill 

Goodwill
      represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the fair
      value of the net assets acquired.  We are required to test
      goodwill for impairment, at the reporting unit level, annually and when
      events or circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit may be
      below its carrying value.  A reporting unit is an operating
      segment or sub-segment to which goodwill is assigned when initially
      recorded. We assign goodwill to reporting units based on our integration
      plans and the expected synergies resulting from the business
      combination.   Because Caterpillar is a highly integrated
      company, the businesses we acquire are sometimes combined with or
      integrated into existing reporting units.  When changes occur in
      the composition of our operating segments or reporting units, goodwill is
      reassigned to the affected reporting units based on their relative fair
      values. 

We perform our
      annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for interim
      triggering events on an ongoing basis.  Goodwill is reviewed for
      impairment utilizing a two-step process.  The first step
      requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit, which we
      primarily determine using an income approach based on the present value of
      discounted cash flows, to the respective carrying value, which includes
      goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its
      carrying value, the goodwill is not considered impaired.  If the
      carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication that
      an impairment may exist and the second step is required.  In
      step two, the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as the excess
      of the fair value of a reporting unit over the fair values assigned to its
      assets and liabilities.  If the implied fair value of goodwill
      is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill, the
      difference is recognized as an impairment loss.  See Note 12 for
      further details. 

M. 

Accumulated
      other comprehensive income (loss) 

Comprehensive
      income (loss) and its components are presented in Statement
      3.  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax,
      consisted of the following at December
31: 

2. 

Stock-based
      compensation 

On January 1,
      2006, we adopted accounting guidance for share-based payments using the
      modified prospective transition method.  Under the modified
      prospective transition method, we were required to record stock-based
      compensation expense for all awards granted after the date of
      adoption.  Our stock-based compensation plans primarily provide
      for the granting of stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights
      (SARs) and restricted stock units (RSUs) to Officers and other key
      employees, as well as non-employee Directors. Stock options permit a
      holder to buy Caterpillar stock at the stock's price when the option was
      granted. SARs permit a holder the right to receive the value in shares of
      the appreciation in Caterpillar stock that occurred from the date the
      right was granted up to the date of exercise.  A restricted
      stock unit (RSU) is an agreement to issue shares of Caterpillar stock at
      the time of vesting. 

Our
      long-standing practices and policies specify all stock-based compensation
      awards are approved by the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the
      Board of Directors on the date of grant.  The stock-based award
      approval process specifies the number of awards granted, the terms of the
      award and the grant date.  The same terms and conditions are
      consistently applied to all employee grants, including Officers. The
      Committee approves all individual Officer grants.  The number of
      stock-based compensation awards  included in an individual's
      award is determined based on the methodology approved by the
      Committee.  In 2007, under the terms of the Caterpillar Inc.
      2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (approved by stockholders in June of 2006),
      the Compensation Committee approved the exercise price methodology to be
      the closing price of the Company stock on the date of the
      grant. 

A-15 

Common stock
      issued from Treasury stock under the plans totaled 3,571,268 for 2009,
      4,807,533 for 2008 and 11,710,958 for 2007. 

In 2007, in
      order to align our stock award program with the overall market, we
      adjusted our 2007 grant by reducing the overall number of employee awards
      and utilizing RSUs in addition to the SARs and option
      awards.  The 2009, 2008 and 2007 awards generally vest three
      years after the date of grant.  At grant, SARs and option awards
      have a term life of ten years.  Upon separation from service, if
      the participant is 55 years of age or older with more than ten years of
      service, the participant meets the criteria for a  Long Service
      Separation."  If the  Long Service Separation  criteria are met,
      the vested options/SARs will have a life that is the lesser of 10 years
      from the original grant date or five years from the separation
      date. 

Our
      stock-based compensation plans allow for the immediate vesting upon
      separation for employees who meet the criteria for a  Long Service
      Separation  and who have fulfilled the requisite service period of six
      months.  With the adoption of guidance on share-based payments,
      compensation expense is recognized over the period from the grant date to
      the end date of the requisite service period for employees who meet the
      immediate vesting upon retirement requirements.  For those
      employees who become eligible for immediate vesting upon retirement
      subsequent to the requisite service period and prior to the completion of
      the vesting period, compensation expense is recognized over the period
      from grant date to the date eligibility is achieved. 

Accounting
      guidance on share-based payments requires companies to estimate the fair
      value of options/SARs on the date of grant using an option-pricing
      model.  The fair value of the option/SAR grant was estimated
      using a lattice-based option-pricing model.  The lattice-based
      option-pricing model considers a range of assumptions related to
      volatility, risk-free interest rate and historical employee
      behavior.  Expected volatility was based on historical and
      current implied volatilities from traded options on our stock. The
      risk-free rate was based on U.S. Treasury security yields at the time of
      grant.  The weighted-average dividend yield was based on
      historical information.  The expected life was determined from
      the lattice-based model. The lattice-based model incorporated exercise and
      post vesting forfeiture assumptions based on analysis of historical data.
      The following table provides the assumptions used in determining the fair
      value of the stock-based awards for the years ended December 31, 2009,
      2008 and 2007, respectively. 

The fair value
      of the RSU grant was determined by reducing the stock price on the day of
      grant by the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during
      the vesting period.  The estimated dividends are based on
      Caterpillar's weighted-average dividend yield. 

The amount of
      stock-based compensation expense capitalized for the years ended December
      31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 did not have a significant impact on our financial
      statements. 

At December
      31, 2009, there was $94 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
      from stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the plans, which
      is related to non-vested stock-based awards.  The compensation
      expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
      approximately 1.6 years. 

Please refer
      to Tables I and II below for additional information on our stock-based
      awards. 

A-16 

The
      computations of weighted-average exercise prices and aggregate intrinsic
      values are not applicable to RSUs since an RSU represents an agreement to
      issue shares of stock at the time of vesting.  At December 31,
      2009, there were 4,531,545 outstanding RSUs with a weighted average
      remaining contractual life of 1.4
years. 

A-17 

In accordance
      with guidance on share-based payments, we classify stock-based
      compensation within cost of goods sold, selling, general and
      administrative expenses and research and development expenses
      corresponding to the same line item as the cash compensation paid to
      respective employees, officers and non-employee directors. 

We currently
      use shares that have been repurchased through our stock repurchase program
      to satisfy share award exercises. 

The cash tax
      benefits realized from stock awards exercised for December 31, 2009, 2008
      and 2007 were $26 million, $60 million and $167 million, respectively. We
      use the direct only method and tax law ordering approach to calculate the
      tax effects of stock-based compensation.  In certain
      jurisdictions, tax deductions for exercises of stock-based awards did not
      generate a cash benefit.  A tax benefit of approximately $25
      million will be recorded in APIC when these deductions reduce our future
      income taxes payable. 

3. 

Derivative
      financial instruments and risk management 

Our earnings
      and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign
      currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity
      prices.  In addition, the amount of Caterpillar stock that can
      be repurchased under our stock repurchase program is impacted by movements
      in the price of the stock.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy)
      allows for the use of derivative financial instruments to prudently manage
      foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, commodity price and
      Caterpillar stock price exposures.  Our policy specifies that
      derivatives are not to be used for speculative
      purposes.  Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign
      currency forward and option contracts, interest rate swaps, commodity
      forward and option contracts, and stock repurchase
      contracts.  Our derivative activities are subject to the
      management, direction and control of our senior financial
      officers.  Risk management practices, including the use of
      financial derivative instruments, are presented to the Audit Committee of
      the Board of Directors at least annually. 

All
      derivatives are recognized in Statement 2 at their fair value. On the date
      the derivative contract is entered, we designate the derivative as (1) a
      hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability (fair value
      hedge), (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash
      flow to be paid (cash flow hedge), or (3) an undesignated instrument.
      Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is qualified, designated
      and highly effective as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on
      the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are
      recorded in current earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative
      that is qualified, designated and highly effective as a cash flow hedge
      are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in Statement
      2 until they are reclassified to earnings in the same period or periods
      during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Changes
      in the fair value of undesignated derivative instruments and the
      ineffective portion of designated derivative instruments are reported in
      current earnings. Cash flow from designated derivative financial
      instruments are classified within the same category as the item being
      hedged on Statement 4.  Cash flow from undesignated derivative
      financial instruments are included in the investing category on Statement
      4. 

We formally
      document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items,
      as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking
      various hedge transactions.  This process includes linking all
      derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges to specific assets
      and liabilities in Statement 2 and linking cash flow hedges to specific
      forecasted transactions or variability of cash flow. 

We also
      formally assess, both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis,
      whether the designated derivatives that are used in hedging transactions
      are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flow of
      hedged items.  When a derivative is determined not to be highly
      effective as a hedge or the underlying hedged transaction is no longer
      probable, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively, in accordance
      with the derecognition criteria for hedge accounting. 

A. 

Foreign
      currency exchange rate risk 

Foreign
      currency exchange rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the
      U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs incurred in foreign currencies.
      Movements in foreign currency rates also affect our competitive position
      as these changes may affect business practices and/or pricing strategies
      of non-U.S.-based competitors. Additionally, we have balance sheet
      positions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposure to
      movements in exchange rates. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations purchase, manufacture and sell products in many
      locations around the world. As we have a diversified revenue and cost
      base, we manage our future foreign currency cash flow exposure on a net
      basis. We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage
      unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to
      minimize the risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S.
      dollar value of our foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for
      managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to five
      years. 

We generally
      designate as cash flow hedges at inception of the contract any Australian
      dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan,
      euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Singapore dollar, New Zealand dollar or
      Swiss franc forward or option contracts that meet the requirements for
      hedge accounting and the maturity extends beyond the current quarter-end.
      Designation is performed on a specific exposure basis to support hedge
      accounting. The remainder of Machinery and Engines foreign currency
      contracts are undesignated.  We also designate as fair value
      hedges specific euro forward contracts used to hedge firm
      commitments. 

A-18 

As of December
      31, 2009, $5 million of deferred net gains, net of tax, included in equity
      (Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Statement 2), are
      expected to be reclassified to current earnings (Other income (expense) in
      Statement 1) over the next twelve months when earnings are affected by the
      hedged transactions.  The actual amount recorded in Other income
      (expense) will vary based on exchange rates at the time the hedged
      transactions impact earnings. 

In managing
      foreign currency risk for our Financial Products operations, our objective
      is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the
      remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions. Our policy
      allows the use of foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset
      the risk of currency mismatch between our receivables and debt. All such
      foreign currency forward and option contracts are
      undesignated. 

B.  
                                                                     
                                                                        Interest
      rate risk 

Interest rate
      movements create a degree of risk by affecting the amount of our interest
      payments and the value of our fixed-rate debt. Our practice is to use
      interest rate derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate changes
      and, in some cases, lower the cost of borrowed funds. 

Machinery and
      Engines operations generally use fixed rate debt as a source of
      funding.  Our objective is to minimize the cost of borrowed
      funds.  Our policy allows us to enter into fixed-to-floating
      interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to meet that objective
      with the intent to designate as fair value hedges at inception of the
      contract all fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps.  Designation
      as a hedge of the fair value of our fixed rate debt is performed to
      support hedge accounting. 

Financial
      Products operations have a match-funding policy that addresses interest
      rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate)
      of Cat Financial's debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of their
      receivables portfolio within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In
      connection with that policy, we use interest rate derivative instruments
      to modify the debt structure to match assets within the receivables
      portfolio. This match-funding reduces the volatility of margins between
      interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, regardless of
      which direction interest rates move. 

Our policy
      allows us to use fixed-to-floating, floating-to-fixed, and
      floating-to-floating interest rate swaps to meet the match-funding
      objective.  We designate fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps
      as fair value hedges to protect debt against changes in fair value due to
      changes in the benchmark interest rate.  We designate most
      floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to protect
      against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark
      interest rate. 

As of December
      31, 2009, $32 million of deferred net losses, net of tax, included in
      equity (Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Statement 2),
      related to Financial Products floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, are
      expected to be reclassified to current earnings (Interest expense of
      Financial Products in Statement 1) over the next twelve
      months.  The actual amount recorded in Interest expense of
      Financial Products will vary based on interest rates at the time the
      hedged transactions impact earnings. 

We have, at
      certain times, liquidated fixed-to-floating and floating-to-fixed swaps at
      both Machinery and Engines and Financial Products.  The gains or
      losses associated with these swaps at the time of liquidation are
      amortized into earnings over the original term of the underlying hedged
      item. 

C.  
                                                                     
                                                                        Commodity
      price risk 

Commodity
      price movements create a degree of risk by affecting the price we must pay
      for certain raw material. Our policy is to use commodity forward and
      option contracts to manage the commodity risk and reduce the cost of
      purchased materials. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations purchase aluminum, copper, lead and nickel embedded
      in the components we purchase from suppliers.  Our suppliers
      pass on to us price changes in the commodity portion of the component
      cost. In addition, we are also subject to price changes on natural gas and
      diesel fuel purchased for operational use. 

Our objective
      is to minimize volatility in the price of these commodities. Our policy
      allows us to enter into commodity forward and option contracts to lock in
      the purchase price of a portion of these commodities within a five-year
      horizon. All such commodity forward and option contracts are
      undesignated. 

The location
      and fair value of derivative instruments reported in Statement 2 are as
      follows: 

A-19 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

December
      31, 2009 

Consolidated
      Statement of Financial Position Location 

Asset
      (Liability) 

                                                                            Fair
      Value 

Designated
      derivatives 

Foreign
      exchange contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Receivables  
      trade and other  

$ 

27 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Long-term
      receivables   trade and other 

125 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Accrued
      expenses  

(22 

) 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Other
      liabilities  

(3 

) 

Interest rate
      contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Receivables  
      trade and other  

1 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Accrued
      expenses  

(1 

) 

Financial
      Products  

Receivables  
      trade and other  

18 

Financial
      Products  

Long-term
      receivables   trade and other 

127 

Financial
      Products  

Accrued
      expenses  

(100 

) 

$ 

172 

Undesignated
      derivatives 

Foreign
      exchange contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Long-term
      receivables   trade and other 

$ 

66 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Other
      liabilities  

(3 

) 

Financial
      Products  

Receivables  
      trade and other  

20 

Financial
      Products  

Accrued
      expenses  

(18 

) 

Interest rate
      contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Accrued
      expenses  

(7 

) 

Financial
      Products  

Receivables  
      trade and other  

1 

Financial
      Products  

Long-term
      receivables   trade and other 

1 

Financial
      Products  

Accrued
      expenses  

(6 

) 

Commodity
      contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Receivables  
      trade and other  

10 

$ 

64 

The effect of
      derivatives designated as hedging instruments on Statement 1 is as
      follows: 

Fair
      Value Hedges 

                                                                            (Millions
      of dollars) 

Year
      ended December 31, 2009 

Classification 

Gains
      (Losses) 

                                                                            on
      Derivatives 

Gains
      (Losses) 

                                                                            on
      Borrowings 

Interest rate
      contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines 

Other income
      (expense)  

$ 

1 

$ 

(1 

) 

Financial
      Products  

Other income
      (expense)  

(205 

) 

220 

$ 

(204 

) 

$ 

219 

Cash
      Flow Hedges 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

Year
      ended December 31, 2009 

Recognized
      in Earnings 

Recognized
      in AOCI - Effective Portion 

Classification
      of 

                                                                            Gains
      (Losses) 

Reclassified
      from AOCI - Effective Portion 

Recognized
      in Earnings - 

                                                                             Ineffective
      Portion 

Foreign
      exchange contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines 

$ 

102 

Other income
      (expense)   

$ 

176 

$ 

2 

Interest rate
      contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines 

(30 

) 

Other income
      (expense)   

(3 

) 

Financial
      Products   

(37 

) 

Interest
      expense of Financial Products 

(83 

) 

9 

1  

$ 

35 

$ 

90 

$ 

11 

1  

The
      ineffective portion recognized in earnings is included in Other income
      (expense). 

The effect of
      derivatives not designated as hedging instruments on Statement 1 is as
      follows: 

A-20 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

Classification
      of Gains or (Losses) 

Year
      ended December 31, 2009 

Foreign
      exchange contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Other income
      (expense)  

$ 

35 

Financial
      Products  

Other income
      (expense)  

(134 

) 

Interest rate
      contracts 

Machinery and
      Engines  

Other income
      (expense)  

(3 

) 

Financial
      Products  

Other income
      (expense)  

3 

Commodity
      contracts  

Machinery and
      Engines  

Other income
      (expense)  

10 

$ 

(89 

) 

D. 

Stock
      repurchase risk 

Payments for
      stock repurchase derivatives are accounted for as a reduction in
      stockholders' equity.  In February 2007, the Board of Directors
      authorized a $7.5 billion stock repurchase program, expiring on December
      31, 2011.  The amount of Caterpillar stock that can be
      repurchased under the authorization is impacted by movements in the price
      of the stock.  In August 2007, the Board of Directors authorized
      the use of derivative contracts to reduce stock repurchase price
      volatility. 

In connection
      with our stock repurchase program, we entered into capped call
      transactions ( call ) with a major bank for an aggregate of 6.0 million
      shares.  A call permits us to reduce share repurchase price
      volatility by providing a floor and cap on the price at which the shares
      can be repurchased.  During 2007, we paid the bank premiums of
      $56 million for the establishment of calls for 3.5 million shares, which
      was accounted for as a reduction to stockholders'
      equity.  During 2008, we paid the bank premiums of $38 million
      for the establishment of calls for 2.5 million shares.  The
      floor, cap and strike prices for the calls were based upon the average
      purchase price paid by the bank to purchase our common stock to hedge
      these transactions.  Each call matured and was exercised within
      one year after the call was established.  If we exercised a
      call, we could elect to settle the transaction with the bank by physical
      settlement (paying cash and receiving shares), cash settlement (receiving
      a net amount of cash) or net share settlement (receiving a net amount of
      shares). 

For the year
      ended December 31, 2008, $268 million of cash was used to repurchase 5.0
      million shares pursuant to calls exercised under this program. Premiums
      previously paid associated with these exercised calls were $78
      million.  In December 2008, a call for 1.0 million shares
      matured, but was not exercised.  Premiums previously paid
      associated with this unexercised call were $16 million.  All
      outstanding calls under this program expired in
  2008. 

1  

Includes gains (losses) from foreign exchange
      derivative contracts.  See Note 3 for further details. 

Profit (loss)
      before taxes, as shown above, is based on the location of the entity to
      which such earnings are attributable. Where an entity's earnings are
      subject to taxation, however, may not correlate solely to where an entity
      is located.  Thus, the income tax provision shown below as U.S.
      or non-U.S. may not correspond to the earnings shown
  above. 

A-21 

The prior year tax benefits recorded in 2009 of
      $133 million primarily resulted from the U.S. settlement of tax years 1995
      to 1999 and the true  -  up of estimated amounts used in the 2008 tax
      provision to the U.S. tax return as filed.  The settlement with
      the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for tax years 1995 through 1999
      resulted in a $46 million tax benefit related primarily to the true-up of
      estimated credits, a $14 million tax benefit to remeasure previously
      unrecognized tax benefits related to foreign sales corporation (FSC)
      commissions, and a $25 million benefit to adjust related interest, net of
      tax.  

The provision
      for income taxes for 2008 includes tax benefits of $456 million related to
      changes in the reinvestment status of earnings of certain non-U.S.
      subsidiaries.  Repatriation of non-U.S. earnings resulted in a
      tax benefit of $409 million due to available foreign tax credits in excess
      of the U.S. tax liability on the dividend.  A benefit of $47
      million was also recorded due to a change in tax status of a non-U.S.
      subsidiary allowing indefinite reinvestment of undistributed profits and
      reversal of U.S. tax previously recorded .

We have
      recorded income tax expense at U.S. tax rates on all profits, except for
      undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries of approximately $9 billion
      which are considered indefinitely reinvested.  Determination of
      the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to indefinitely
      reinvested profits is not feasible.  If management intentions or
      U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative
      impact on the provision for income taxes in the period the change
      occurs. 

The provision
      for income taxes would also be negatively impacted in the future if U.S.
      healthcare legislation was enacted and made government subsidies received
      for Medicare-equivalent prescription drug (Medicare Part D) coverage
      taxable. 

Accounting for
      income taxes under U.S. GAAP guidance requires that individual tax-paying
      entities of the company offset all current deferred tax liabilities and
      assets within each particular tax jurisdiction and present them as a
      single amount in the Consolidated Financial Position. A similar procedure
      is followed for all noncurrent deferred tax liabilities and assets.
      Amounts in different tax jurisdictions cannot be offset against each
      other. The amount of deferred income taxes at December 31, included
      on the following lines in Statement 2, are as
  follows: 

A-22 

At
      December 31, 2009, approximately $632 million of U.S. state tax
      net operating losses (NOLs) and $160 million of U.S. state tax credit
      carryforwards were available. Of the NOLs, over three-fourths expire after
      2019. The state tax credit carryforwards expire over the next ten years.
      We established a valuation allowance of $179 million for those NOLs and
      credit carryforwards likely to expire prior to utilization. 

At
      December 31, 2009, amounts and expiration dates of net operating loss
      carryforwards in various non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions
    were: 

A valuation
      allowance of $296 million has been recorded at certain non-U.S. entities
      that have not yet demonstrated consistent and/or sustainable profitability
      to support the recognition of net deferred tax assets.  If
      global recessionary conditions continue, it is reasonably possible that
      increases in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets of certain
      non-U.S. entities may be required in the next twelve months. 

At
      December 31, 2009, we had U.S. research and development credits of
      approximately $25 million to carry forward for up to twenty
      years. 

At
      December 31, 2009, amounts and expiration dates of U.S. foreign tax
      credits available to carry forward
were: 

A-23 

We adopted the
      guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes as of January 1,
      2007. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross
      unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including positions
      impacting only the timing of tax benefits,
  follows. 

1  

Foreign
      currency translation amounts are included within each line as
      applicable. 

2  

Includes cash
      payment or other reduction of assets to settle
      liability. 

At adoption,
      the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact
      the effective tax rate was $486 million. 

We classify
      interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of the provision for
      income taxes. We recognized interest and penalties of ($13) million, $18
      million and $36 million during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
      2007, respectively.  The 2009 amount includes a benefit from
      adjustments for the 1995 through 1999 settlement as discussed
      above.  The total amount of interest and penalties accrued was
      $170 million, $116 million and $98 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008
      and 2007, respectively. 

It is
      reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will
      change in the next 12 months.  However, we do not expect the
      change to have a significant impact on our results of operations or
      financial position. 

The Internal
      Revenue Service (IRS) is currently examining U.S. tax returns for 2005 and
      2006 and has completed its field examination of our tax returns for 1992
      to 2004.  For tax years 1992 to 1994, we expect to litigate the
      unagreed adjustments related to transfer pricing.  In 2009, we
      reached a settlement with the IRS for tax years 1995 to 1999. For tax
      years 2000 to 2004, we are in the appeals process for unagreed adjustments
      primarily related to export tax benefits.   In the opinion
      of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a
      material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity
      or results of operations. 

In our major
      non-U.S. jurisdictions, tax years are typically subject to examination for
      three to six years. 

6. 

Sales
      and servicing of trade receivables 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations generate trade receivables from the sale of
      inventory to dealers and customers. Certain of these receivables are sold
      to Cat Financial. 

Cat Financial
      has sold interests in a certain pool of trade receivables through a
      revolving structure to third-party commercial paper conduits, which are
      asset-backed commercial paper issuers that are special purpose entities
      (SPEs) of the sponsor bank and are not consolidated by Cat
      Financial.  Cat Financial services the sold trade receivables
      and receives an annual servicing fee of approximately 0.5% of the average
      outstanding principal balance. Consolidated expenses of $4 million, $10
      million and $15 million related to the sale of trade receivables were
      recognized during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are included in
      Other income (expense) in Statement
1. 

A-24 

As of December
      31, 2009, there were no trade receivables sold to the third-party
      commercial paper conduits.  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
      the outstanding principal balance of the sold trade receivables was $240
      million. Cat Financial's remaining interest in the pool of trade
      receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 of $1,432 million and
      $1,233 million, respectively, is included in Receivables-trade and other
      in Statement 2. 

The cash
      collections from this pool of trade receivables are first applied to
      satisfy any obligations of Cat Financial to the third-party commercial
      paper conduits. The third-party commercial paper conduits have no recourse
      to Cat Financial's assets, other than the remaining interest, for failure
      of debtors to pay when due. 

7. 

Wholesale
      inventory receivables 

Wholesale
      inventory receivables are receivables of Cat Financial that arise when Cat
      Financial provides financing for a dealer's purchase of inventory. These
      receivables are included in Receivables trade and other and Long-term
      receivables trade and other in Statement 2 and were $937 million,
      $1,555 million, and $1,496 million at December 31, 2009, 2008
      and 2007, respectively. Please refer to Note 19 and Table IV for
      fair value information. 

8. 

Finance
      receivables 

Finance
      receivables are receivables of Cat Financial, which generally can be
      repaid or refinanced without penalty prior to contractual maturity. Total
      finance receivables reported in Statement 2 are net of an allowance
      for credit losses. 

We consider an
      account past due if any portion of an installment is due and unpaid for
      more than 30 days.  Recognition of income is suspended when
      management determines that collection of future income is not probable
      (generally after 120 days past due). Accrual is resumed, and
      previously suspended income is recognized, when the receivable becomes
      contractually current and/or collection doubts are removed. Cash receipts
      on impaired loans or finance leases are recorded against the receivable
      and then to any unrecognized income. Investment in loans/finance leases on
      nonaccrual status were $678 million, $422 million and $232 million
      and past due over 90 days and still accruing were $134 million, $119
      million and $47 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
      respectively. 

A-25 

Cat Financial
      provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met. Credit decisions
      are based on, among other things, the customer's credit history, financial
      strength and intended use of equipment. Cat Financial typically maintains
      a security interest in retail financed equipment and requires physical
      damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. 

Please refer
      to Table III for additional finance receivables information and
      Note 19 and Table IV for fair value information. 

Securitized Retail Installment Sale Contracts and
      Finance Leases  

                                                                                          Cat Financial
      periodically sells certain finance receivables relating to retail
      installment sale contracts and finance leases to SPEs as part of their
      asset-backed securitization program.  The SPEs have limited
      purposes and generally are only permitted to purchase the finance
      receivables, issue asset-backed securities and make payments on the
      securities.  The SPEs only issue a single series of securities
      and generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid in
      full.  The SPEs, typically trusts, are considered to be
      qualifying special-purpose entities (QSPEs) and are not
      consolidated.  The QSPEs issue debt to pay for the finance
      receivables they acquire from Cat Financial.  The primary source
      for repayment of the debt is the cash flows generated from the finance
      receivables owned by the QSPEs.  The assets of the QSPEs are
      legally isolated and are not available to pay the creditors of Cat
      Financial.  For bankruptcy analysis purposes, Cat Financial has
      sold the finance receivables to the QSPEs in a true sale and the QSPEs are
      separate legal entities.  The investors and the securitization
      trusts have no recourse to any of Cat Financial's other assets for failure
      of debtors to pay when due. 

Cat Financial
      retains interests in the retail finance receivables that are sold through
      their asset-backed securitization program.  Retained interests
      include subordinated certificates, an interest in future cash flows
      (excess) and reserve accounts.  Retained interests in
      securitized assets are classified as available-for-sale securities and are
      included in Other assets in Statement 2 at fair value.  Cat
      Financial estimates fair value and cash flows using a valuation model and
      key assumptions for credit losses, prepayment rates and discount
      rates.  These assumptions are based on historical experience,
      market trends and anticipated performance relative to the particular
      assets securitized. Cat Financial periodically evaluates for impairment
      and recognizes the credit component of an other-than-temporary impairment
      in Profit and the noncredit component in Accumulated other comprehensive
      income (loss) for those retained interests in which Cat Financial does not
      intend to sell and it is not likely that they will be required to sell
      prior to recovery. 

During 2008
      and 2007, Cat Financial sold certain finance receivables relating to
      retail installment sale contracts and finance leases to  SPEs as
      part of their asset-backed securitization program.  Net gains of
      $12 million and $4 million were recorded in Revenues of Financial Products
      in Statement 1 in 2008 and 2007, respectively and were based on the
      estimated fair value of the assets sold and retained and liabilities
      incurred, net of transaction costs.  For 2008, subordinated
      retained interests included certificates with an initial fair value of $27
      million, an interest in certain future cash flow (excess) with an initial
      fair value of $8 million and a reserve account with an initial fair value
      of $9 million. For 2007, subordinated retained interests included
      certificates with an initial fair value of zero, an interest in certain
      future cash flow (excess) with an initial fair value of $2 million and a
      reserve account with an initial fair value of $9 million. 

Significant
      assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the retained interests at
      the time of the transaction were: 

To maintain
      competitiveness in the capital markets and to have effective and efficient
      use of alternative funding sources, Cat Financial may from time to time
      provide additional reserve support to previously issued asset-backed
      securitizations.  During the second quarter of 2009 and third
      quarter of 2008, Cat Financial deposited $80 million and $19 million,
      respectively, into supplemental reserve accounts for the securitization
      transactions to maintain the credit ratings assigned to the transactions,
      as loss experiences have been higher than anticipated primarily due to the
      adverse economic conditions in the U.S.  Due to the significant
      value of the deposit in second quarter of 2009, written consent was
      obtained from the third-party beneficial interest holders of the
      securitization transactions.  The QSPE conditions were reviewed
      and the trusts continue to maintain QSPE status.  These deposits
      resulted in an increase in Cat Financial's retained
interests. 

As of December
      31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of the retained interests in all
      securitizations of retail finance receivables outstanding totaled $102
      million (cost basis of $107 million), $52 million (cost basis of $62
      million) and $49 million (cost basis of $46 million),
      respectively.  The fair value of the retained interests as of
      December 31, 2009 that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position
      for twelve months or longer totaled $102 million (cost basis of $107
      million). As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no retained
      interests in a continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or
      longer. Key assumptions used to determine the fair value of the retained
      interests as of such dates
were: 

A-26 

To estimate
      the impact on income due to changes to the key economic assumptions used
      to estimate the fair value of residual cash flows in retained interests
      from retail finance receivable securitizations, Cat Financial performs a
      sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the retained interests by
      applying a 10 percent and 20 percent adverse change to the individual
      assumptions.  This estimate does not adjust for other variations
      that may occur should one of the assumptions actually
      change.  Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual
      results would be consistent with the results of the
      estimate.  The effect of a variation in a particular assumption
      on the fair value of residual interest in securitization transactions was
      calculated without changing any other assumptions and changes in one
      factor may result in changes in another.  Cat Financial's
      sensitivity analysis indicated that the impact of a 20 percent adverse
      change in individual assumptions used to calculate the fair value of all
      retained interests as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 would be $11
      million or less, $8 million or less and $2 million or less,
      respectively. 

During 2009
      and 2008, the assumptions used to determine the expected cash flows for
      Cat Financial's securitization transactions were revised, which resulted
      in other-than-temporary impairments.  The impairments recognized
      in earnings were primarily driven by an increase in the credit loss
      assumption due to the continuing adverse economic conditions in the
      U.S.  The noncredit related component recorded in Accumulated
      other comprehensive income (loss) was primarily driven by changes in
      discount rates. 

1  

Balance
      excludes $7 million of gross gains recorded in OCI related to the
      securitization retained interest for the year ended December 31,
      2009. 

2  

Recorded in
      Revenues of Financial Products in Statement
1. 

The following
      table presents a roll-forward of the balance of the credit-related
      impairment losses on Cat Financials' securitized retained interests for
      which a portion of the other-than-temporary impairment was recognized in
      Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss): 

Cat Financial
      also retained servicing responsibilities and received a servicing fee of
      approximately one percent of the remaining value of the finance
      receivables. 

See Table III
      for additional securitization
information. 

A-27 

A-28 

9. 

Inventories 

Inventories
      (principally using the LIFO method) are comprised of the
      following: 

During 2009
      inventory quantities were reduced.  This reduction resulted
      in a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers carried at lower costs
      prevailing in prior years as compared with current costs.  In
      2009, the effect of this reduction of inventory decreased Cost of goods
      sold in Statement 1 by approximately $300 million and increased Profit by
      approximately $240 million or $0.39 per
share. 

10. 

Property,
      plant and equipment 

We had
      commitments for the purchase or construction of capital assets of
      approximately $459 million at December 31,
  2009. 

At
      December 31, 2009, scheduled minimum rental payments on assets
      recorded under capital leases were: 

A-29 

At
      December 31, 2009, scheduled minimum rental payments to be received
      for equipment leased to others
were: 

11. 

Investments
      in unconsolidated affiliated companies 

Our
      investments in affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method
      have historically consisted primarily of a 50 percent interest in Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) located in Japan.  On August
      1, 2008, SCM redeemed half of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.'s (MHI's)
      shares in SCM.  As a result, Caterpillar now owns 67 percent of
      the renamed entity, Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan) and consolidates
      its financial statements.  See Note 25 for additional
      information.  In February 2008, we sold our 23 percent equity
      investment in A.S.V. Inc. (ASV) resulting in a $60 million pretax gain,
      recognized in Other income (expense) in Statement
      1.  Accordingly, the December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008
      financial position and equity investment amounts noted below do not
      include ASV or Cat Japan. 

Combined
      financial information of the unconsolidated affiliated companies accounted
      for by the equity method (generally on a lag of 3 months or less) was as
      follows: 

Sales from
      SCM, while an unconsolidated affiliate, to Caterpillar of approximately
      $1.67 billion in both 2008 and 2007, are included in the affiliated
      company sales.  In addition, SCM purchases of Caterpillar
      product, while an unconsolidated affiliate, were $353 million and $268
      million in 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

A-30 

At
      December 31, 2009, consolidated Profit employed in the business in
      Statement 2 included $6 million representing undistributed profits of the
      unconsolidated affiliated
companies. 

12. 

Intangible
      assets and goodwill 

During 2008,
      the Cat Japan share redemption resulted in additional finite-lived
      intangible assets of $54 million.  In 2008, we acquired
      finite-lived intangible assets of $17 million due to the purchase of Lovat
      Inc.  See Note 25 for details on these business
      combinations.  Also in 2008, we acquired finite-lived intangible
      assets of $32 million from other acquisitions. 

During 2007,
      we acquired finite-lived intangible assets of $89 million as part of the
      purchase of Franklin Power Products.  In 2007, we also acquired
      finite-lived intangible assets of $24 million due to the purchase of the
      Forestry Division of Blount International, Inc.  See Note 25 for
      details on the acquisition of these assets. 

Amortization
      expense related to intangible assets was $61 million, $61 million and $52
      million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Amortization
      expense related to intangible assets is expected to
  be: 

A-31 

B. 

Goodwill 

During 2008,
      the Cat Japan share redemption resulted in $206 million of
      goodwill.  In 2008, we acquired net assets with related goodwill
      of $41 million as part of the purchase of Gremada Industries,
      Inc.  In 2008, we also acquired net assets with related goodwill
      of $22 million as part of the purchase of Lovat Inc.  See Note
      25 for details on these business combinations.  Also during
      2008, we acquired net assets with related goodwill of $8 million from
      other acquisitions. 

During 2007,
      we acquired net assets with related goodwill of $37 million as part of the
      purchase of Franklin Power Products.  In 2007, we also acquired
      net assets with related goodwill of $22 million as part of the purchase of
      the Forestry Division of Blount International, Inc.  See Note 25
      for details on the acquisition of these assets. 

We test
      goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make
      it more likely than not that an impairment may have
      occurred.  We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of
      October 1 and monitor for interim triggering events on an ongoing
      basis.  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing a two-step
      process.  The first step requires us to compare the fair value
      of each reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income
      approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows, to the
      respective carrying value, which includes goodwill.  If the fair
      value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the goodwill is
      not considered impaired.  If the carrying value is greater than
      the fair value, there is an indication that an impairment may exist and
      the second step is required.  In step two, the implied fair
      value of goodwill is calculated as the excess of the fair value of a
      reporting unit over the fair values assigned to its assets and
      liabilities.  If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than
      the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill, the difference is
      recognized as an impairment loss. 

The 2009
      annual impairment test, completed in the fourth quarter, indicated the
      fair value of each of our reporting units was well above its respective
      carrying value with the exception of our Forest Products reporting unit, a
      component of the Building Construction Products reportable
      segment.  Because the carrying value of Forest Products exceeded
      its fair value, step two in the impairment test process was
      required.  We allocated the fair value to the unit's assets and
      liabilities and determined the implied fair value of the goodwill was
      insignificant.  Accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge of $22
      million for Forest Products was recognized in Other operating (income)
      expense in Statement 1.  The primary factor contributing to the
      impairment was the historic decline in demand for purpose built forest
      product machines caused by the significant reduction in U.S. housing
      construction, lower prices for pulp, paper, and wood product commodities,
      and reduced capital availability in the forest products
      industry.  No goodwill was impaired or disposed of during the
      years ended December 31, 2008 or 2007. 

The changes in
      carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended
      December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as
  follows: 

1  

Includes all
      other operating segments (See Note 24). 

2  

Other
      adjustments are comprised primarily of foreign currency
      translation. 

As discussed
      in Note 24, our reportable segments were changed in the first quarter of
      2009.  As a result of these changes, the newly formed
      Earthmoving, Excavation and Mining reportable segments have been allocated
      goodwill of $43 million, $39 million and $30 million,
      respectively.  The goodwill was reallocated primarily from the
      former reportable segments of EAME Operations, Heavy Construction  
      Mining and Infrastructure Development.  Additionally, goodwill
      of $22 million was reallocated to Building Construction Products from the
      All Other category, while goodwill of $478 million was reallocated to the
      All Other category from the former Industrial Power Systems reportable
      segment.  Goodwill associated with the newly formed Cat Japan
      reportable segment was previously included in the All Other
      category. 

13. 

Available-for-sale
      securities 

We have
      investments in certain debt and equity securities, primarily at Cat
      Insurance, that have been classified as available-for-sale and recorded at
      fair value based upon quoted market prices.  These fair values
      are primarily included in Other assets in Statement
      2.  Unrealized gains and losses arising from the revaluation of
      available-for-sale securities are included, net of applicable deferred
      income taxes, in equity (Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in
      Statement 2).  Realized gains and losses on sales of investments
      are generally determined using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method for
      debt instruments and the specific identification method for equity
      securities.  Realized gains and losses are included in Other
      income (expense) in Statement
1. 

A-32 

Effective
      April 1, 2009, we adopted the new accounting and disclosure requirements
      regarding recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary
      impairments.  See Note 1K for additional
      information. 

During 2009
      and 2008, we recognized pretax charges for other-than-temporary declines
      in the market values of equity securities in the Cat Insurance investment
      portfolios of $12 million and $37 million, respectively.  These
      charges were accounted for as a realized loss and were included in Other
      income (expense) in Statement 1.  The cost basis of the impacted
      securities was adjusted to reflect these charges.  During 2007,
      there were no charges for other-than-temporary declines in the market
      value of securities. 

1  

Indicates
      length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous
      unrealized loss position. 

A-33 

1  

Indicates
      length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous
      unrealized loss position. 

1  

Indicates
      length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous
      unrealized loss position. 

Government
      Debt.   The unrealized losses on our investments in other
      U.S. and non-U.S. government bonds are the result of changes in interest
      rates since time of purchase.  We do not intend to sell the
      investments and it is not likely that we will be required to sell these
      investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis.  We
      do not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as
      of December 31, 2009. 

Corporate
      Bonds.   The unrealized losses on our investments in
      corporate bonds and asset-backed securities relate primarily to an
      increase in credit-related yield spreads, risk aversion and heightened
      volatility in the financial markets since initial purchase.  We
      do not intend to sell the investments and it is not likely that we will be
      required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized cost
      basis.  We do not consider these investments to be
      other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31,
  2009. 

A-34 

Mortgage-Backed Debt
      Securities.   The unrealized losses on our investments in
      mortgage-backed securities relate primarily to an increase in housing
      delinquencies and default rates, credit-related yield spreads, risk
      aversion and heightened volatility in the financial
      markets.  Continued weakness and lack of liquidity in the
      commercial sector continues to impact valuations.  We do not
      intend to sell the investments and it is not likely that we will be
      required to sell these investments before recovery of their amortized cost
      basis.  We do not consider these investments to be
      other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2009. 

Equity
      Securities.   Cat Insurance maintains a well-diversified
      equity portfolio consisting of two specific mandates:  large
      capitalization value stocks and smaller company growth
      stocks.  Despite continued strengthening in equity returns
      during the second half of 2009, the remaining unrealized losses in both
      the large and smaller company portfolios can be attributed to the weak
      economic conditions over the last 12 to 18 months.  In each case
      where unrealized losses exist, the respective company's management is
      taking corrective action to increase shareholder
      value.   We do not consider these investments to be
      other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2009. 

The fair value
      of the available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2009, by
      contractual maturity, is shown below. Expected maturities will differ from
      contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay and
      creditors may have the right to call
  obligations. 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

Fair
      Value 

Due in one
      year or less  

$ 

43 

Due after one
      year through five years  

$ 

415 

Due after five
      years through ten years  

$ 

222 

Due after ten
      years  

$ 

529 

14. 

Postemployment
      benefit plans 

We have both
      U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S.
      employees and a portion of our non-U.S. employees, primarily in our
      European and Japanese facilities. Our defined benefit plans provide a
      benefit based on years of service and/or the employee's average earnings
      near retirement. Our defined contribution plans allow employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to help save for retirement, and in
      certain cases, we provide a matching contribution. We also have
      defined-benefit retirement health care and life insurance plans covering
      substantially all of our U.S. employees. 

As discussed
      in Note 1K, we adopted the balance sheet recognition provisions of the
      guidance on employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other
      postretirement plans at December 31, 2006, and adopted the year-end
      measurement date effective January 1, 2008 using the  one measurement 
      approach.  Under the one measurement approach, net periodic
      benefit cost for the period between any early measurement date and the end
      of the fiscal year that the measurement provisions are applied is
      allocated proportionately between amounts to be recognized as an
      adjustment of Profit employed in the business and net periodic benefit
      cost for the fiscal year.  Previously, we used a November 30th
      measurement date for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit
      plans and September 30th for our non-U.S. plans.  Year-end asset
      and obligation amounts are disclosed as of the plan measurement
      dates. 

As discussed
      in Note 27, during 2009 voluntary and involuntary separation programs
      impacted employees participating in certain U.S. and non-U.S. pension and
      other postretirement benefit plans.  Due to the significance of
      these events, certain plans were re-measured as follows: 

U.S. Voluntary Separation
      Program    Plan re-measurements as of January 31, 2009 resulted in
      curtailment losses to the U.S. support and management pension and other
      postretirement benefit plans of $80 million and $45 million,
      respectively. 

Other U.S. Separation Programs
         Certain plans were re-measured as of March 31, 2009 and December
      31, 2009, resulting in net curtailment losses of $47 million to pension
      and $10 million to other postretirement benefit plans.  Early
      retirement pension benefit costs of $6 million were also
      recognized. 

Non-U.S. Separation Programs  
       Certain plans were re-measured as of March 31, 2009 and December
      31, 2009, resulting in pension settlement losses of $34 million, special
      termination benefits of $2 million to pension and curtailment losses of $1
      million to other postretirement benefit plans. 

A-35 

In March 2009,
      we amended our U.S. support and management other postretirement benefit
      plan.  Beginning in 2010, certain retirees age 65 and older will
      enroll in individual health plans that work with Medicare and will no
      longer participate in a Caterpillar-sponsored group health
      plan.  In addition, Caterpillar will fund a tax-advantaged
      Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) to assist the retirees with medical
      expenses.  The plan amendment required a plan re-measurement as
      of March 31, 2009, which resulted in a decrease in our Liability for
      postretirement benefits of $432 million and an increase in Accumulated
      other comprehensive income (loss) of $272 million
      after-tax.  The plan was further amended in December 2009 to
      define the HRA benefit that active employees will receive once they are
      retired and reach age 65.  The plan was re-measured at year-end
      and the December amendment resulted in a decrease in our Liability for
      postretirement benefits of $101 million and an increase in Accumulated
      other comprehensive income (loss) of $64 million
      after-tax.  These decreases will be amortized into earnings on a
      straight-line basis over approximately 7 years, the average remaining
      service period of active employees in the plan.  The March 2009
      amendment reduced other postretirement benefits expense by approximately
      $60 million for 2009. 

1  

Change in
      benefit obligation during the period from the early measurement date to
      December 31, 2007. 

2  

See Note 25
      regarding the 2008 Cat Japan share redemption. 

3  

2007 charge to
      recognize previously unrecorded liabilities related to a subsidiary
      pension plan. 

4  

End of year
      rates are used to determine net periodic cost for the subsequent year. See
      Note 14E. 

Assumed health
      care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported
      for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health
      care cost trend rates would have the following
  effects: 

(Millions of
      dollars) 

One-percentage- 

                                                                                                              point
      increase 

One-percentage- 

                                                                                                              point
      decrease 

Effect on 2009
      service and interest cost components of other postretirement benefit
      cost 

$ 

23 

$ 

(20 

) 

Effect on
      accumulated postretirement benefit obligation  

$ 

220 

$ 

(186 

) 

A-36 

As discussed
      in Note 1K, we adopted the accounting guidance on employers' disclosures
      about postretirement benefit plan assets for the annual period ending
      December 31, 2009.  The guidance expands the disclosure set
      forth in the previous guidance by adding required disclosures about (1)
      how investment allocation decisions are made by management, (2) major
      categories of plan assets, and (3) significant concentrations of
      risk.  Additionally, this guidance requires an employer to
      disclose information about the valuation of plan assets similar to that
      required under the accounting guidance on fair value
      measurements. 

Our U.S.
      pension target asset allocations reflect our investment strategy of
      maximizing the long-term rate of return on plan assets and the resulting
      funded status, within an appropriate level of risk.  Our target
      allocations for the U.S. pension plans are 70% equities, 25% debt
      securities and 5% real estate.  Within equity securities,
      approximately two-thirds include investments in U.S. large and small-cap
      companies.  The remaining portion is invested in international
      companies, including emerging markets, and private
      equity.  Fixed income securities primarily include corporate
      bonds, mortgage backed securities and U.S. Treasuries. 

In general,
      our non-U.S. pension target asset allocations reflect our investment
      strategy of maximizing the long-term rate of return on plan assets and the
      resulting funded status, within an appropriate level of
      risk.  The weighted-average target allocations for the non-U.S.
      pension plans are 55% equities, 35% debt securities, 6% real estate and 4%
      other.  The target allocations for each plan varies based upon
      local statutory requirements, demographics of plan participants and funded
      status.  Plan assets are primarily invested in non-U.S.
      securities. 

Our target
      allocations for the other postretirement benefit plans are 80% equities
      and 20% debt securities.  Within equity securities,
      approximately two-thirds include investments in U.S. large and small-cap
      companies.  The remaining portion is invested in international
      companies, including emerging markets.  Fixed income securities
      primarily include corporate bonds, mortgage backed securities and U.S.
      Treasuries. 

The U.S. plans
      are rebalanced to plus or minus five percentage points of the target asset
      allocation ranges on a monthly basis.  The frequency of
      rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies depending on the plan. As a
      result of our diversification strategies, there are no significant
      concentrations of risk within the portfolio of investments except for the
      holdings in Caterpillar stock as discussed below. 

The use of
      certain derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and
      necessary for achieving overall investment policy
      objectives.  The U.S. plans utilize futures contracts to offset
      current equity positions in order to rebalance the total portfolio to the
      target asset allocation.  During 2008 and 2007, approximately 5%
      and 10%, respectively, of the U.S. pension plans' assets were
      rebalanced from equity to fixed income positions through the use of
      futures contracts. The plans do not engage in futures contracts for
      speculative purposes. 

The accounting
      guidance on fair value measurements specifies a fair value hierarchy based
      upon the observability of inputs used in valuation techniques (Level 1, 2
      and 3).  See Note 19 for a discussion of the fair value
      hierarchy. 

Fair values
      are determined as follows: 

Equity
      securities are primarily based on valuations for identical instruments in
      active markets. 

Fixed income
      securities are primarily based upon models that take into consideration
      such market-based factors as recent sales, risk-free yield curves and
      prices of similarly rated
bonds. 

A-37 

Real estate is
      stated at the fund's net asset value or at appraised
  value. 

Cash,
      short-term instruments and other are based on the carrying amount, which
      approximated fair value, or at the fund's net asset value. 

The fair value
      of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by category is
      summarized below: 

1  

Includes funds
      that invest in both U.S. and non-U.S. securities. 

2  

Includes funds
      that invest in multiple asset classes, hedge funds and
    other. 

A-38 

Below are
      roll-forwards of assets measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs for
      the year ended December 31, 2009.  These instruments were valued
      using pricing models that, in management's judgment, reflect the
      assumptions a marketplace participant would
use. 

Equity
      securities within plan assets include Caterpillar Inc. common stock
      in the amounts of: 

N/A (Not
      Applicable): The adoption of the year-end measurement date provisions of
      the guidance on employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and
      other postretirement plans (see Note 1K) eliminated contributions between
      the measurement date and the end of the fiscal
  year. 

A-39 

The estimated
      amounts that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income
      (loss) at December 31, 2009 into net periodic benefit cost (pre-tax) in
      2010 are as follows: 

(Millions of
      dollars) 

U.S.
      Pension 

Non-U.S.
      Pension 

Other

Postretirement
      Benefits 

Actuarial loss
      (gain)  

$ 

350 

$ 

68 

$ 

33 

Prior service
      cost (credit)  

28 

1 

(55 

) 

Transition
      obligation (asset)  

2 

Total

$ 

378 

$ 

69 

$ 

(20 

) 

The
      accumulated postretirement benefit obligation exceeds plan assets for all
      of our other postretirement benefit
plans. 

The above
      table reflects the total employer contributions and benefits expected to
      be paid from the plan or from company assets and does not include the
      participants' share of the cost. The expected benefit payments for our
      other postretirement benefits include payments for prescription drug
      benefits. Medicare Part D subsidy amounts expected to be received by
      the company which will offset other postretirement benefit payments are as
      follows: 

A-40 

1  

2009
      curtailments, settlements and special termination benefits were recognized
      in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1. 

2  

Prior service
      costs for both pension and other postretirement benefits are generally
      amortized using the straight-line method over the average remaining
      service period to the full retirement eligibility date of employees
      expected to receive benefits from the plan amendment. For other
      postretirement benefit plans in which all or almost all of the plan's
      participants are fully eligible for benefits under the plan, prior service
      costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining life
      expectancy of those participants. 

3  

2007 charge to
      recognize previously unrecorded liabilities related to a subsidiary
      pension plan. 

4  

Amortization
      during the period from the early measurement date to December 31,
      2007. 

5  

The
      weighted-average rates for 2010 are 8.5% and 7.0% for U.S. and non-U.S.
      plans, respectively. 

The assumed
      discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to
      today's dollars.  For 2009 and 2008, the U.S. discount rate was
      based on a benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at
      which our benefit obligations could effectively be settled as of our
      measurement date, December 31.  The benefit cash flow-matching
      approach involves analyzing Caterpillar's projected cash flows against a
      high quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of
      corporate Aa bonds available on the measurement date.  The very
      highest and lowest yielding bonds (top and bottom 10%) are excluded from
      the analysis.  For 2007, we used the Moody's Aa bond yield as of
      our measurement date, November 30, and validated the discount rate
      using the benefit cash flow-matching approach.  A similar change
      was made in determining the assumed discount rate for our most significant
      non-U.S. plans. This rate is sensitive to changes in interest rates. A
      decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation and future
      expense. 

Our U.S.
      expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate
      of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities
      weighted by the allocation of our pension assets. Based on historical
      performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management
      of the plan assets. To arrive at our expected long-term return, the amount
      added for active management was 1% for 2009, 2008 and 2007.  A
      similar process is used to determine this rate for our non-U.S.
      plans. 

A-41 

The assumed
      health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are
      assumed to increase. To calculate the 2009 benefit expense, we assumed an
      increase of 7.4% for 2009.  We expect an increase of 7.0% during
      2010.  The 2009 and 2010 rates are assumed to decrease gradually
      to the ultimate health care trend rate of 5.0% in 2016. This rate
      represents 3.0% general inflation plus 2.0% additional health care
      inflation. 

We determined
      that most of our U.S. retiree health care plans are at least actuarially
      equivalent to Medicare Part D and will qualify for the federal
      subsidy. 

F. 

Other
      postemployment benefit plans 

We offer
      long-term disability benefits, continued health care for disabled
      employees, survivor income benefit insurance and supplemental unemployment
      benefits to substantially all eligible U.S.
  employees. 

G. 

Defined
      contribution plans 

We have both
      U.S. and non-U.S. employee defined contribution plans to help employees
      save for retirement. Our U.S. 401(k) plan allows eligible employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to the plan on a tax-deferred basis,
      and we provide a matching contribution equal to 100% of employee
      contributions to the plan up to 6% of their compensation. Various other
      U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans allow eligible employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to the plans, and in some cases, we
      provide a matching contribution to the funds. 

Beginning in
      June 2009, we began funding our employer matching contribution for certain
      U.S. defined contribution plans in Caterpillar stock, held as treasury
      stock. In 2009, we made $68 million (1.4 million shares) of matching
      contributions in Caterpillar stock. 

Total company
      costs related to U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans were as
      follows: 

(Millions of
      dollars) 

2009 

2008 

2007 

U.S. plans

$ 

206 

$ 

107 

$ 

172 

Non-U.S. plans

29 

34 

30 

$ 

235 

$ 

141 

$ 

202 

15. 

Short-term
      borrowings 

1  

Increase due
      to the consolidation of Cat Japan. See Note 25 for additional
      details. 

A-42 

The
      weighted-average interest rates on short-term borrowings outstanding
      were: 

Please refer
      to Note 19 and Table IV for fair value information on short-term
      borrowings. 

1  

Increase due
      to the consolidation of Cat Japan. See Note 25 for additional
      details. 

2  

Debentures due
      in 2035 have an effective yield to maturity of
  8.55%. 

All
      outstanding notes and debentures are unsecured.  The deposit
      obligations have a corresponding security deposit that relates to a
      finance arrangement, which provides us a return. This finance arrangement
      requires that we commit to certain long-term obligations and provide a
      security deposit, which will fulfill these obligations when they become
      due.  In 2007, the security deposit associated with the
      outstanding deposit obligations for Financial Products was included in
      Other assets in Statement 2.  In 2008, this security deposit was
      included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets and the deposit
      obligations were included in long-term debt due within one
      year.  During 2009, the deposit obligation was fulfilled by the
      related security deposit. 

On December 3,
      2008, Caterpillar issued $350 million of 7.00% debentures due in 2013,
      $900 million of 7.90% debentures due in 2018 and $250 million of 8.25%
      debentures due in 2038. 

We may redeem
      the 6.55% and 5.70% notes and the 7.25%, 6.625%, 7.30%, 5.30%, 6.05%,
      6.95% and 7.375% debentures in whole or in part at our option at any time
      at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount
      of the debentures to be redeemed or the sum of the present value of the
      remaining scheduled payments. The terms of other notes and debentures do
      not specify a redemption option prior to
  maturity. 

A-43 

Based on Cat
      Financial's medium-term note issuances subsequent to year-end, $71
      million, $1,500 million and $903 million of Financial Products'
      commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
      respectively, was classified as long-term debt due after one year.
      Medium-term notes are offered by prospectus and are issued through agents
      at fixed and floating rates. These notes have a weighted average interest
      rate of 4.6% with remaining maturities up to 19 years at
      December 31, 2009.   

The aggregate
      amounts of maturities of long-term debt during each of the years 2010
      through 2014, including amounts due within one year and classified as
      current, are: 

We have three
      global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $6.99 billion
      (Credit Facility 1) available in the aggregate to both Caterpillar and Cat
      Financial to support their commercial paper programs in the event those
      programs become unavailable and for general liquidity
      purposes.  Based on management's allocation decision, which can
      be revised from time to time, the portion of the Credit Facility 1
      available to Cat Financial as of December 31, 2009 was $5.49
      billion. 

The five-year
      facility of $1.62 billion expires in September 2012. 

The five-year
      facility of $2.98 billion expires in September 2011. 

In September
      2009, we renewed the 364-day facility. The amount was increased from $2.25
      billion to $2.39 billion and expires in September 2010. 

We also have a
      364-day revolving credit facility (Credit Facility 2) with a syndicate of
      banks totaling $1.37 billion, which expires in March 2010 and is jointly
      available to both Caterpillar and Cat Financial. 

Consolidated
      credit lines with banks as of December 31, 2009 total $4.73 billion. These
      credit lines, which are eligible for renewal at various future dates or
      have no specified expiration date, are used primarily by our subsidiaries
      for local funding requirements.  Caterpillar or Cat Financial
      generally guarantees subsidiary borrowings under these lines. 

During 2009,
      certain of the covenants applicable to Caterpillar or Cat Financial under
      Credit Facility 1 and Credit Facility 2 (the Credit Facilities) were
      revised.  The revisions, among other things, modified the
      consolidated net worth definition for Caterpillar's covenant to exclude
      pension and other post-retirement benefits as a part of Accumulated other
      comprehensive income (loss).  In addition, Cat Financial's
      interest coverage ratio covenant was modified to exclude the impact of
      interest rate derivatives and to calculate the ratio over a rolling
      four-quarter period. 

At December
      31, 2009, Caterpillar's consolidated net worth was $13.26 billion, which
      was above the $9.00 billion required under the Credit
      Facilities.  The consolidated net worth is defined as the
      consolidated stockholder's equity including preferred stock but excluding
      the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within Accumulated
      other comprehensive income
(loss). 

A-44 

At December
      31, 2009, Cat Financial's interest coverage ratio was 1.26 to
      1.  This is above the 1.15 to 1 minimum ratio of (1) profit
      excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest
      rate derivatives to (2) interest expense calculated at the end of each
      calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently
      ended. 

In addition,
      at December 31, 2009, Cat Financial's leverage ratio was 6.79 to
      1.  This is below the maximum ratio of debt to net worth of 10
      to 1, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage
      ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar
      months and (2) at each December 31 required by the Credit
      Facilities. 

In the event
      Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet one or more of their respective
      financial covenants under the Credit Facilities in the future (and are
      unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the bank group may terminate the
      commitments allocated to the parties.  Additionally, in such
      event, certain of Cat Financial's other lenders under other loan
      agreements where such financial covenants are applicable, may, at their
      election, choose to pursue remedies under such loan agreements, including
      accelerating outstanding borrowings.  At December 31, 2009,
      there were no borrowings under the Credit
  Facilities. 

1  

Profit
      attributable to common stockholders. 

19. 

Fair
      value disclosures 

A. 

Fair
      value measurements 

As discussed
      in Note 1K, we adopted the accounting guidance on fair value measurements
      as of January 1, 2008.  This guidance defines fair value as the
      exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
      liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for
      the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market
      participants.  This guidance also specifies a fair value
      hierarchy based upon the observability of inputs used in valuation
      techniques.  Observable inputs (highest level) reflect market
      data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs (lowest
      level) reflect internally developed market assumptions.  In
      accordance with this guidance, fair value measurements are classified
      under the following hierarchy: 

Level 1      Quoted prices for
      identical instruments in active markets. 

Level 2    Quoted prices
      for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or
      similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived
      valuations in which all significant inputs or significant value-drivers
      are observable in active markets. 

Level 3    Model-derived
      valuations in which one or more significant inputs or significant
      value-drivers are unobservable. 

When
      available, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value, and we
      classify such measurements within Level 1.  In some cases where
      market prices are not available, we make use of observable market based
      inputs to calculate fair value, in which case the measurements are
      classified within Level 2.  If quoted or observable market
      prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed
      models that use, where possible, current market-based parameters such as
      interest rates, yield curves and currency rates.  These
      measurements are classified within Level 3. 

Fair value
      measurements are classified according to the lowest level input or
      value-driver that is significant to the valuation.  A
      measurement may therefore be classified within Level 3 even though there
      may be significant inputs that are readily
  observable. 

A-45 

The guidance
      on fair value measurements expanded the definition of fair value to
      include the consideration of nonperformance
      risk.  Nonperformance risk refers to the risk that an obligation
      (either by a counterparty or Caterpillar) will not be
      fulfilled.  For our financial assets traded in an active market
      (Level 1 and certain Level 2), the nonperformance risk is included in the
      market price.  For certain other financial assets and
      liabilities (Level 2 and 3), our fair value calculations have been
      adjusted accordingly. 

Available-for-sale securities  

                                                                                                                                              Our
      available-for-sale securities, primarily at Cat Insurance, include a mix
      of equity and debt instruments (see Note 13 for additional
      information).  Fair values for our U.S. treasury bonds and
      equity securities are based upon valuations for identical instruments in
      active markets.  Fair values for other government bonds,
      corporate bonds and mortgage-backed debt securities are based upon models
      that take into consideration such market-based factors as recent sales,
      risk-free yield curves and prices of similarly rated bonds. 

Derivative financial
      instruments  

                                                                                                                                              The fair value
      of interest rate swap derivatives is primarily based on models that
      utilize the appropriate market-based forward swap curves and zero-coupon
      interest rates to determine discounted cash flows.  The fair
      value of foreign currency and commodity forward and option contracts is
      based on a valuation model that discounts cash flows resulting from the
      differential between the contract price and the market-based forward
      rate. 

Securitized retained interests  

                                                                                                                                              The fair value
      of securitized retained interests is based upon a valuation model that
      calculates the present value of future expected cash flows using key
      assumptions for credit losses, prepayment rates and discount
      rates.  These assumptions are based on our historical
      experience, market trends and anticipated performance relative to the
      particular assets securitized. 

Guarantees  

                                                                                                                                              The fair value
      of guarantees is based upon the premium we would require to issue the same
      guarantee in a stand-alone arms-length transaction with an unrelated
      party. If quoted or observable market prices are not available, fair value
      is based upon internally developed models that utilize current
      market-based assumptions. 

Assets and
      liabilities measured at fair value, primarily related to Financial
      Products, included in Statement 2 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are
      summarized below: 

A-46 

Below are
      roll-forwards of assets and liabilities measured at fair value using Level
      3 inputs for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.  These
      instruments, primarily related to Cat Financial, were valued using pricing
      models that, in management's judgment, reflect the assumptions a
      marketplace participant would use. 

The amount of
      unrealized losses on securitized retained interests recognized in earnings
      for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 related to assets still
      held at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $28 million and $23 million,
      respectively. These losses were reported in Revenues of Financial Products
      in Statement 1.  There were no unrealized losses on guarantees
      recognized in earnings for the years ended December 31, 2009 related to
      liabilities still held at December 31, 2009. The amount of unrealized
      losses on guarantees recognized in earnings for the year ended December
      31, 2008 related to liabilities still held at December 31, 2008 were $8
      million.  These losses were reported in Selling, general and
      administrative expenses in Statement 1. 

In addition to
      the amounts above, we had impaired loans of $208 million and $108 million
      for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  A
      loan is considered impaired when management determines that collection of
      contractual amounts due is not probable.  In these cases, an
      allowance for loan losses is established based primarily on the fair value
      of associated collateral.  As the collateral's fair value is based on
      observable market prices and/or current appraised values, the impaired
      loans are classified as Level 2
  measurements.   

B. 

Fair
      values of financial instruments 

In addition to
      the methods and assumptions we use to record the fair value of financial
      instruments as discussed in the Fair value measurements section above, we
      used the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of
      our financial instruments. 

Cash and short-term
investments  

                                                                                                                                                  Carrying
      amount approximated fair value. 

Finance receivables  

                                                                                                                                                  Fair value was
      estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current rates,
      representative of receivables with similar remaining
      maturities. 

Wholesale inventory
      receivables  

                                                                                                                                                    Fair value was
      estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current rates,
      representative of receivables with similar remaining
      maturities. 

A-47 

Short-term borrowings  

                                                                                                                                                  Carrying
      amount approximated fair value. 

Long-term debt  

                                                                                                                                                  Fair value for
      Machinery and Engines and Financial Products fixed rate debt was estimated
      based on quoted market prices. For Financial Products, floating rate notes
      and commercial paper carrying amounts approximated fair value. For deposit
      obligations, carrying value approximated fair value. 

Please refer
      to the table below for the fair values of our financial
      instruments. 

20. 

Concentration
      of credit risk 

Financial
      instruments with potential credit risk consist primarily of trade and
      finance receivables and short-term and long-term investments.
      Additionally, to a lesser extent, we have a potential credit risk
      associated with counterparties to derivative contracts. 

Trade
      receivables are primarily short-term receivables from independently owned
      and operated dealers and customers which arise in the normal course of
      business. We perform regular credit evaluations of our dealers and
      customers. Collateral generally is not required, and the majority of our
      trade receivables are unsecured. We do, however, when deemed necessary,
      make use of various devices such as security agreements and letters of
      credit to protect our interests. No single dealer or customer represents a
      significant concentration of credit risk. 

Finance
      receivables and wholesale inventory receivables primarily represent
      receivables under installment sales contracts, receivables arising from
      leasing transactions and notes receivable. We generally maintain a secured
      interest in the equipment financed. No single customer or dealer
      represents a significant concentration of credit risk. 

Short-term and
      long-term investments are held with high quality institutions and, by
      policy, the amount of credit exposure to any one institution is limited.
      Long-term investments, primarily included in Other assets in Statement 2,
      are comprised primarily of available for sale securities at Cat
      Insurance. 

For derivative
      contracts, collateral is generally not required of the counterparties or
      of our company.  The company generally enters into International
      Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting agreements which
      permit the net settlement of amounts owed.  Our exposure to
      credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties is
      limited to only those gains that we have recorded, but for which we have
      not yet received cash payment. The master netting agreements reduce the
      amount of loss the company would incur should the counterparties fail to
      meet their obligations.  At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
      the maximum exposure to credit loss was $514 million, $1,051 million and
      $204 million, respectively, before the application of any master netting
      agreements.  Please refer to Note 19 and Table IV above for fair
      value information. 

A-48 

21. 

Operating
      leases 

We lease
      certain computer and communications equipment, transportation equipment
      and other property through operating leases. Total rental expense for
      operating leases was $381 million, $402 million, and $362 million for
      2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Minimum
      payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable
      terms in excess of one year are: 

22. 

Guarantees
      and product warranty 

We have
      provided an indemnity to a third-party insurance company for potential
      losses related to performance bonds issued on behalf of Caterpillar
      dealers.  The bonds are issued to insure governmental agencies
      against nonperformance by certain dealers.  We also provided
      guarantees to a third party related to the performance of contractual
      obligations by certain Caterpillar dealers. The guarantees cover potential
      financial losses incurred by the third party resulting from the dealers'
      nonperformance. 

We provide
      loan guarantees to third-party lenders for financing associated with
      machinery purchased by customers. These guarantees have varying terms and
      are secured by the machinery. In addition, Cat Financial participates in
      standby letters of credit issued to third parties on behalf of their
      customers. These standby letters of credit have varying terms and
      beneficiaries and are secured by customer assets. 

Cat Financial
      has provided a limited indemnity to a third-party bank resulting from the
      assignment of certain leases to that bank.  The indemnity is for
      the possibility that the insurers of these leases would become
      insolvent.  The indemnity expires December 15, 2012 and is
      unsecured. 

No loss has
      been experienced or is anticipated under any of these guarantees. At
      December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the related liability was $17
      million, $14 million and $12 million, respectively. The maximum potential
      amount of future payments (undiscounted and without reduction for any
      amounts that may possibly be recovered under recourse or collateralized
      provisions) we could be required to make under the guarantees at
      December 31 are as follows: 

We provide
      guarantees to repurchase certain loans of Caterpillar dealers from a
      financial trust (Trust) that qualifies as a variable interest
      entity.  The purpose of the Trust is to provide short-term
      working capital loans to Caterpillar dealers.  This Trust issues
      commercial paper and uses the proceeds to fund its loan
      program.  We have a loan purchase agreement with the Trust that
      obligates us to purchase certain loans that are not paid at
      maturity.  We receive a fee for providing this guarantee, which
      provides a source of liquidity for the Trust.  At December 31,
      2008, we determined that we were the primary beneficiary of the Trust as
      our guarantees would require us to absorb a majority of the entity's
      expected losses, and therefore consolidated the financial position of the
      Trust in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  As
      of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Trust's assets of $231 million and $477
      million, respectively, are primarily comprised of loans to dealers and the
      Trust's liabilities of $231 million and $477 million, respectively are
      primarily comprised of commercial paper.  No loss has been
      experienced or is anticipated under this loan purchase
      agreement.  Our assets are not available to pay creditors of the
      Trust, except to the extent we may be obligated to perform under the
      guarantee, and assets of the Trust are not available to pay our
      creditors. 

Cat Financial
      is party to agreements in the normal course of business with selected
      customers and Caterpillar dealers in which we commit to provide a set
      dollar amount of financing on a pre-approved basis.  We also
      provide lines of credit to selected customers and Caterpillar dealers, of
      which a portion remains unused as of the end of the
      period.  Commitments and lines of credit generally have fixed
      expiration dates or other termination clauses. It has been our experience
      that not all commitments and lines of credit will be used. Management
      applies the same credit policies when making commitments and granting
      lines of credit as it does for any other financing. 

A-49 

We do not
      require collateral for these commitments/lines, but if credit is extended,
      collateral may be required upon funding.  The amount of the
      unused commitments and lines of credit for dealers as of December 31,
      2009, 2008 and 2007 was $7,312 million, $8,918 million and $8,249 million,
      respectively.  The amount of the unused commitments and lines of
      credit for customers as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2,089
      million, $3,085 million and $3,001 million, respectively. 

Our product
      warranty liability is determined by applying historical claim rate
      experience to the current field population and dealer
      inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on
      actual warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine
      size.  Specific rates are developed for each product build month
      and are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim
      experience. 

The 2009
      provision includes approximately $181 million for changes in estimates for
      pre-existing warranties due to higher than expected actual warranty claim
      experience.  These amounts for 2008 and 2007 were not
      significant. 

23. 

Environmental
      and legal matters 

The company is
      regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing
      our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In
      addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws
      often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited
      to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to
      internal combustion engines. Compliance with these existing laws has not
      had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or global
      competitive position. 

We are engaged
      in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other
      companies, pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is
      probable we will pay remedial costs at a site and those costs can be
      reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against our
      earnings.  In formulating that estimate, we do not consider
      amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or
      others.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is
      not material and is included in Accrued expenses in Statement
      2. 

We cannot
      reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of
      remediation.  Currently, we have a few sites in the very early
      stages of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a
      material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all
      sites in the aggregate, will be required. 

We have
      disclosed certain individual legal proceedings in this
      filing.  Additionally, we are involved in other unresolved legal
      actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent of
      these unresolved actions involve disputes related to product design,
      manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and
      welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues or intellectual
      property rights.  Although it is not possible to predict with
      certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe that
      these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material
      adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
      position or liquidity. 

On May 14,
      2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of
      Violation to Caterpillar Inc., alleging various violations of Clean Air
      Act Sections 203, 206 and 207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar
      violated such sections by shipping engines and catalytic converter
      after-treatment devices separately, introducing into commerce a number of
      uncertified and/or misbuilt engines, and failing to timely report
      emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is currently engaging in
      negotiations with EPA to resolve these issues, but it is too early in the
      process to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
      penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and,
      based upon initial discussions, and although penalties could potentially
      exceed $100,000, management does not believe that this issue will have a
      material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
      financial position or liquidity. 

On February 8,
      2009, an incident at Caterpillar's Joliet, Illinois facility resulted in
      the release of approximately 3,000 gallons of wastewater into the Des
      Plaines River.  In coordination with state and federal
      authorities, appropriate remediation measures have been
      taken.  On February 23, 2009 the Illinois Attorney General filed
      a Complaint in Will County Circuit Court containing seven counts of
      violations of state environmental laws and regulations.  Each
      count seeks injunctive relief, as well as statutory penalties of $50,000
      per violation and $10,000 per day of violation.  In addition, on
      March 5, 2009 the EPA served Caterpillar with a Notice of Intent to file a
      Civil Administrative Action (notice), indicating the EPA's intent to seek
      civil penalties for violations of the Clean Water Act and Oil Pollution
      Act.  On January 25, 2010, the EPA issued a revised notice
      seeking civil penalties in the amount of $167,800, and Caterpillar is
      preparing a response to the revised notice.   At this time,
      we do not believe these proceedings will have a material adverse impact on
      our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
      liquidity. 

A-50 

24. 

Segment
      information 

A. 

Basis
      for segment information 

                                                                                                                                                                  Caterpillar is
      organized based on a decentralized structure that has established
      responsibilities to continually improve business focus and increase our
      ability to react quickly to changes in the global business cycle, customer
      needs and competitors' actions. Our current structure uses a matrix
      organization comprised of multiple profit and cost center
      divisions. 

In the first
      quarter of 2009, our organizational responsibilities were changed
      significantly to align the machine product, manufacturing and marketing
      organizations.  The new divisional structure and revised set of
      responsibilities are as follows: 

Machine
      business divisions are profit centers primarily responsible for product
      management, development, marketing, sales and product
      support.  Machine business divisions also have select
      manufacturing responsibilities.  These activities were
      previously included within product and component divisions, manufacturing
      divisions and machinery marketing divisions.  Inter-segment
      sales of components may also be a source of revenue for these
      divisions. 

Engine
      business divisions are profit centers primarily responsible for product
      management, development, manufacturing, marketing, sales and product
      support.  Inter-segment sales of engines and/or components may
      also be a source of revenue for these divisions. 

Component
      business divisions are profit centers primarily responsible for product
      management, development, manufacturing, marketing and product support for
      internal and external customers.  Some of these activities were
      previously included within product and manufacturing
      divisions.  Inter-segment sales of components are a source of
      revenue for these divisions. 

Service
      business divisions are profit centers primarily responsible for various
      services and service-related products to customers including financial,
      logistics, remanufacturing and rail services.  Inter-segment
      sales of services and service-related products are a source of revenue for
      some of these divisions. 

Manufacturing
      services divisions are cost centers primarily responsible for the
      manufacture of products and/or components within the geographic regions of
      the Americas and EAME. Previously manufacturing divisions were profit
      centers with inter-segment sales of components, machines and/or engines to
      product divisions as the primary sources of revenue. 

Corporate
      services divisions are cost centers primarily responsible for the
      performance of certain support functions globally (e.g., Finance, Human
      Resources, Information Technology, Legal and Purchasing) and to provide
      centralized services. 

Regional
      distribution services divisions are cost centers primarily responsible for
      the total portfolio of business with each dealer, the dealer relationship,
      dealer development and ensuring the most efficient and effective
      distribution of machines, engines and parts.  Previously these
      functions were primarily performed by machinery marketing
      divisions. 

Centers of
      excellence divisions are cost centers primarily responsible for
      Caterpillar's most critical/differentiating processes in the areas of
      Marketing and Product Support, Production and Product
      Development.  Previously these organizations were considered
      service divisions. 

Our
      measurement system is complex and is designed to evaluate performance and
      to drive continuous improvement.  We have chosen to disclose
      financial results by our three principal lines of business (Machinery,
      Engines and Financial Products) in our Management's Discussion and
      Analysis rather than by reportable segment based on the
      following: 

Our Machinery
      and Engines businesses are vertically integrated and there are a
      significant amount of inter-segment transactions that make information for
      individual segments less meaningful. 

A significant
      amount of corporate and other costs ($1,460 million, $1,333 million and
      $1,192 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
      respectively) are allocated to Machinery and Engines business divisions
      based on budgeted external and inter-segment sales.  It would be
      difficult to provide meaningful information by reportable segment for
      these costs as the allocation method does not directly reflect the
      benefited segment and the allocation is done in total, not by financial
      statement line item.  In addition, the budgeted amount is
      allocated to segments; any differences from budget are treated as a
      reconciling item between reportable segment and consolidated
      results. 

As discussed
      below, there are various methodology differences between our segment
      reporting and U.S. GAAP.  This results in numerous reconciling
      items between reportable segment and consolidated
  results. 

We have
      twenty-two operating segments, of which eleven are reportable
      segments.  Reporting financial information for this number of
      businesses, especially considering our level of vertical integration,
      would not be meaningful to our financial statement
  users. 

In summary,
      due to Caterpillar's high level of integration and our concern that
      segment disclosures have limited value for our external readers, we are
      continuing to disclose financial results for our three principal lines of
      business (Machinery, Engines and Financial Products) in our Management's
      Discussion and Analysis beginning on page
A-64. 

A-51 

B. 

Description
      of segments 

Profit center
      divisions meet the definition of "operating segments" specified in the
      accounting guidance on segment reporting; however, the cost center
      divisions do not.  Following is a brief description of our
      eleven reportable segments and the business activities included in all
      other operating segments: 

Building Construction
      Products :    A machine business
      division primarily responsible for product management, development,
      manufacture, marketing, sales and product support of light construction
      machines, forestry machines and select work tools. 

Cat Japan:   A
      business division primarily responsible for the development of small,
      medium and large hydraulic excavators, manufacturing of select machinery
      and components, marketing, sales and product support of machinery, engines
      and components in Japan. 

Earthmoving:   A
      machine business division primarily responsible for product management,
      development, marketing, sales and product support of medium wheel loaders,
      medium track-type tractors, track-type loaders, motor graders and
      pipelayers.  Also responsible for manufacturing of select
      machines in Asia. 

Electric Power :  An
      engine business division primarily responsible for product management,
      development, manufacture, marketing, sales and product support of
      reciprocating engine powered generator sets as well as integrated systems
      used in the electric power generation industry. 

Excavation :  A
      machine business division primarily responsible for product management,
      development, marketing, sales and product support of small, medium and
      large excavators, wheeled excavators and articulated
      trucks.  Also responsible for manufacturing of select machines
      in Asia and articulated trucks. 

Large Power
      Systems :  An engine business division primarily responsible
      for product management, development, manufacture and product support of
      reciprocating engines supplied to Caterpillar machinery and the electric
      power, petroleum, marine and industrial industries.  Also
      responsible for engine component manufacturing. 

Logistics :  A
      service business division primarily responsible for logistics services for
      Caterpillar and other companies. 

Marine   Petroleum
      Power :  An engine business division primarily responsible
      for product management, development, marketing, sales and product support
      of reciprocating engines supplied to the marine and petroleum
      industries.  Also responsible for manufacturing of certain
      reciprocating engines for marine, petroleum and electric power
      applications. 

Mining:    A
      machine business division primarily responsible for product management,
      development, marketing, sales and product support of large track-type
      tractors, large mining trucks, underground mining equipment and tunnel
      boring equipment.  Also responsible for manufacturing of
      underground mining equipment and tunnel boring equipment. 

Turbines:   An
      engine business division primarily responsible for product management,
      development, manufacture, marketing, sales and product support of turbines
      and turbine-related services. 

Financing   Insurance
      Services :  Provides financing to customers and dealers for the
      purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment, as well as some
      financing for Caterpillar sales to dealers.  Financing plans
      include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, working
      capital loans and wholesale financing plans. The division also provides
      various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the
      purchase and lease of our equipment. 

All
      Other:   Primarily includes activities such as: the
      product management, development, marketing, sales and product support of
      large wheel loaders, quarry and construction trucks, wheel tractor
      scrapers, wheel dozers, compactors and select work tools.  Also
      responsible for manufacturing of select machines in Asia; the product
      management, development, manufacture, marketing, sales and product support
      of reciprocating engines used in industrial applications; the product
      management, development, manufacture, marketing, sales and product support
      of machinery and engine components, electronics and control systems; the
      product management, development, manufacture, remanufacture, maintenance
      and service of rail-related products and services; remanufacturing of
      Caterpillar engines and components and remanufacturing services for other
      companies; the product management, development, manufacture, marketing,
      sales and product support of paving products.  Results for All
      Other operating segments are included as reconciling items between
      reportable segments and consolidated external
  reporting. 

C. 

Segment
      measurement and reconciliations 

Effective the
      first quarter of 2009, we made the following changes to our segment
      reporting methodology: 

A-52 

Machine
      business divisions include actual manufacturing costs and assets from
      manufacturing service divisions.  Previously these costs were
      valued on a manufacturing fee or transfer price basis and manufacturing
      assets were included in manufacturing divisions. 

Business
      divisions receive actual costs and assets from corporate services
      divisions, regional distribution services divisions and centers of
      excellence.  Previously these costs were either charged to or
      excluded from profit center accountable profit while assets were included
      in service divisions.   Costs for regional distribution
      services divisions and Marketing and Product Support Center of Excellence
      are allocated to business divisions based on budgeted external and
      inter-segment sales. 

The majority
      of other income and expense items are excluded from segment
      results.  Previously they had been included. 

Certain
      corporate costs are allocated and included in the business division's
      accountable profit at budgeted levels.  Any differences from
      budget are treated as reconciling items.  Previously all these
      costs were excluded from accountable profit.  The allocation is
      based on budgeted external and inter-segment sales and costs are not
      assigned to individual financial statement line items. 

Interest
      expense is not included in Machinery and Engines segment
      results.  Previously interest expense was imputed (i.e.,
      charged) to profit centers based on their level of accountable
      assets. 

Certain
      corporate assets are allocated and included in the business division's
      assets.  Previously they were reconciling items between segment
      and consolidated reporting. 

There are
      several methodology differences between our segment reporting and our
      external reporting.  The following is a list of the more
      significant methodology differences: 

Generally,
      liabilities are managed at the corporate level and are not included in
      segment operations.  Segment accountable assets generally
      include inventories, receivables and property, plant and
      equipment. 

Segment
      inventories and cost of sales are valued using a current cost
      methodology. 

Currency
      exposures are generally managed at the corporate level and the effects of
      changes in exchange rates on results of operations within the year are not
      included in segment results.  The net difference created in the
      translation of revenues and costs between exchange rates used for U.S.
      GAAP reporting and exchange rates used for segment reporting are recorded
      as a methodology difference. 

Postretirement
      benefits are split; service and prior service costs are included in
      segment results based on plan participation.  The remaining
      elements of net periodic benefit costs (at budget levels) are allocated to
      business divisions based on budgeted external and inter-segment sales (as
      part of the corporate cost allocation).  Any differences from
      budget for the remaining elements are treated as reconciling
      items. 

Interest
      expense is not included in Machinery and Engines segment
      results. 

Accountable
      profit is determined on a pretax
basis. 

Reconciling
      items are created based on accounting differences between segment
      reporting and our consolidated external reporting. Please refer to pages
      A-54 to A-58 for financial information regarding significant reconciling
      items.  Most of our reconciling items are self-explanatory given
      the above explanations.  For the reconciliation of profit
      (loss), we have grouped the reconciling items as follows: 

Corporate costs: 
       Certain corporate costs are allocated and included in the business
      division's accountable profit at budgeted levels.  Any
      differences are treated as reconciling items.  Previously all
      these costs were excluded from accountable profit.  These costs
      are related to corporate requirements and strategies that are considered
      to be for the benefit of the entire organization. 

Redundancy
      costs:   Redundancy costs include pension and other
      postretirement benefit plan curtailments, settlements and special
      termination benefits as well as employee separation charges. Most of these
      costs are reconciling items between accountable profit and consolidated
      profit before tax. Table Reconciliation of Redundancy Costs on page A-56
      has been included to illustrate how segment accountable profit would have
      been impacted by the redundancy costs.  See Notes 14 and 27 for
      more information. 

Methodology
      differences:   See previous discussion of significant
      accounting differences between segment reporting and consolidated external
      reporting. 

Timing:    Timing
      differences in the recognition of costs between segment reporting and
      consolidated external reporting. 

A-53 

A-54 

1  

Elimination of
      Financial Products revenues from Machinery and
  Engines. 

A-55 

A-56 

A-57 

25. 

Business
      combinations and alliances 

NC 2 
      Joint Venture 

In September
      2009, we entered into a joint venture with Navistar International
      Corporation (Navistar), resulting in a new company, NC 2 
      Global LLC (NC 2 ).  NC 2 
      will develop, manufacture, market, distribute and provide product support
      for heavy and medium duty trucks outside of North America, the Indian
      subcontinent, Myanmar (Burma) and Malaysia.  Initially, NC 2 
      will focus its activities in Australia, Brazil, China, Russia, South
      Africa, and Turkey.  NC 2 's
      product line will feature both conventional and cab-over truck designs and
      will be sold under both the Caterpillar and International
      brands. 

Under the
      joint venture operating agreement, Caterpillar and Navistar have each
      contributed $19 million during 2009.  In addition, each is
      committed to provide the joint venture with up to an additional $113
      million of required funding over the following three years. Our investment
      in NC 2 ,
      accounted for by the equity method, is included in Investments in
      unconsolidated affiliated companies in Statement
  2. 

A-58 

Lovat
      Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                  In April 2008,
      we acquired 100 percent of the equity in privately held Lovat Inc. (Lovat)
      for approximately $49 million.  Based in Toronto, Canada, Lovat
      is a leading manufacturer of tunnel boring machines used globally in the
      construction of subway, railway, road, sewer, water main, mine access and
      high voltage cable and telecommunications tunnels.  Expansion
      into the tunnel boring business is a strong fit with our strategic
      direction and the customers we serve around the
  world. 

The
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $10 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $17 million
      related to customer relationships, intellectual property and trade names
      are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average
      amortization period of approximately 6 years.  Goodwill of $22
      million, non-deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of
      cost over the fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible
      assets acquired.  The results of the acquired business for the
      period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying
      consolidated financial statements and reported in the  Mining  segment in
      Note 24.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the
      beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results
      would not be materially different from reported
  results. 

Gremada
      Industries Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                  In July 2008,
      we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Gremada
      Industries, Inc. (Gremada), a supplier to our remanufacturing
      business.  The cost of the acquisition was $62 million,
      consisting of $60 million paid at closing and an additional $2 million
      post-closing adjustment paid in August 2008.  Gremada is a
      remanufacturer of transmissions, torque converters, final drives and
      related components.  This acquisition increases our product and
      service offerings for our existing customers, while providing a platform
      for further growth opportunities. 

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $21 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Goodwill of $41 million, deductible for income tax
      purposes, represents the excess cost over the fair value of net tangible
      and finite-lived intangible assets acquired.  The results of the
      acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in
      the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the
       All Other  category in Note 24.  Assuming this transaction had
      been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro
      forma results would not be materially different from reported
      results. 

Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) 

                                                                                                                                                                                                  On August 1,
      2008, SCM completed the first phase of a share redemption plan whereby SCM
      redeemed half of MHI's shares in SCM for $464 million.  This
      resulted in Caterpillar owning 67 percent of the outstanding shares of SCM
      and MHI owning the remaining 33 percent.  As part of the share
      redemption, SCM was renamed Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat
      Japan).  Both Cat Japan and MHI have options, exercisable after
      five years, to require the redemption of the remaining shares owned by
      MHI, which if exercised, would make Caterpillar the sole owner of Cat
      Japan.  The share redemption plan is part of our comprehensive
      business strategy for expansion in the emerging markets of Asia and the
      Commonwealth of Independent States and will allow Cat Japan's
      manufacturing, design and process expertise to be fully leveraged across
      the global Caterpillar enterprise. 

The change in
      Caterpillar's ownership interest from 50 percent to 67 percent was
      accounted for as a business combination.  The $464 million
      redemption price was assigned to 17 percent of Cat Japan's assets and
      liabilities based upon their respective fair values as of the transaction
      date.  The revaluation resulted in an increase in property,
      plant and equipment of $78 million and an increase in inventory of $8
      million over the book value of these assets.  Finite-lived
      intangible assets of $54 million were recognized and related primarily to
      customer relationships, intellectual property and trade names. These
      intangibles are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a
      weighted-average amortization period of approximately 9
      years.  Deferred tax liabilities of $57 million were also
      recognized as part of the business combination. Goodwill of $206 million,
      non-deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of the
      redemption price over the 17 percent of Cat Japan's net tangible and
      finite-lived intangible assets that were reported at their fair
      values. 

Because Cat
      Japan is accounted for on a lag, we consolidated Cat Japan's August 1,
      2008 financial position on September 30, 2008.  We began
      consolidating Cat Japan's results of operations in the fourth quarter of
      2008. Including the amounts assigned as part of the business combination,
      the initial consolidation of Cat Japan's financial position resulted in a
      net increase in assets of $2,396 million (primarily property, plant and
      equipment of $1,279 million, inventory of $640 million, receivables of
      $612 million, and goodwill and intangibles of $260 million partially
      offset by a $528 million reduction in investment in unconsolidated
      affiliates) and a net increase in liabilities of $2,045 million (including
      $1,388 million in debt).  Cat Japan's functional currency is the
      Japanese yen. 

The remaining
      33 percent of Cat Japan owned by MHI has been reported as redeemable
      noncontrolling interest and classified as mezzanine equity (temporary
      equity) in Statement 2. On September 30, 2008, the redeemable
      noncontrolling interest was reported at its estimated future redemption
      value of $464 million with the difference between the $351 million book
      value of the 33 percent interest and the redemption value reported as a
      $113 million reduction of Profit employed in the business.  See
      Note 26 for information on the subsequent reporting of the redeemable
      noncontrolling interest. 

A-59 

Cat Japan is
      included in the  Cat Japan  segment in Note 24.  Assuming this
      transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the
      consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from
      reported results. 

Forestry
      Division of Blount International, Inc. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                      In November
      2007, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain
      liabilities of Blount International's Forestry Division. The cost of the
      acquisition was $82 million, consisting of $79 million in cash and a net
      employee benefit liability incurred of $3 million.  Blount's
      Forestry Division manufactures, markets and supports timber harvesting and
      processing equipment, loaders and attachments. The acquisition supports
      our corporate objective to be the forestry market leader and enables us to
      offer the broadest product line in the industry with a full range of
      products and services for logging, millyard, road-building and land
      management. 

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $36 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $24 million
      related to customer relationships, intellectual property and trade names
      are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average
      amortization period of approximately 9 years.  Goodwill of $22
      million, deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost
      over the fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets
      acquired. The results of the acquired business for the period from the
      acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial
      statements and reported in the  Building Construction Products  segment in
      Note 24.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the
      beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results
      would not be materially different from reported results. 

In the fourth
      quarter of 2009, our annual goodwill impairment test indicated the $22
      million of goodwill assigned to our Forest Products reporting unit was
      impaired.  The implied fair value of the goodwill was determined
      to be zero, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge of $22
      million.  See Note 12 for additional
  information. 

Franklin
      Power Products 

                                                                                                                                                                                                      In February
      2007, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of
      Franklin Power Products, Inc. (FPP) and International Fuel Systems, Inc.
      (IFS), subsidiaries of Remy International. In June 2007, pursuant to the
      acquisition agreement, additional assets were purchased from Remy
      International for $7 million which increased the total purchase price to
      approximately $165 million, consisting of $160 million paid at the
      closings and an additional $5 million post closing adjustment paid in July
      2007.   FPP is a remanufacturer of on-highway light and
      medium duty truck diesel engines and engine components. IFS provides
      remanufactured diesel components such as high-pressure fuel pumps, fuel
      injectors and turbochargers. This acquisition represents a strategic
      expansion of our engine and engine component remanufacturing
      operations. 

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $39 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $89 million
      related to customer relationships are primarily being amortized on a
      straight-line basis over 20 years.  Goodwill of $37 million,
      deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the
      fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets
      acquired.  The results of the acquired business for the period
      from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated
      financial statements and reported in the  All Other  category in Note
      24.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of
      any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be
      materially different from reported
results. 

26. 

Redeemable
      Noncontrolling Interest   Caterpillar Japan Ltd. 

On August 1, 2008,  SCM  completed the first phase of a share redemption
      plan whereby SCM redeemed half of MHI's shares in SCM.  This
      resulted in Caterpillar owning 67 percent of the outstanding shares of SCM
      and MHI owning the remaining 33 percent.  As part of the share
      redemption, SCM was renamed Cat Japan.  Both Cat Japan and MHI
      have options, exercisable after five years, to require the redemption of
      the remaining shares owned by MHI, which if exercised, would make
      Caterpillar the sole owner of Cat Japan.  See Note 25 for
      additional information.  

The remaining
      33 percent of Cat Japan owned by MHI has been reported as redeemable
      noncontrolling interest and classified as mezzanine equity (temporary
      equity) in Statement 2. The redeemable noncontrolling interest is reported
      at its estimated redemption value.  Any adjustment to the
      redemption value impacts Profit employed in the business, but does not
      impact Profit.  If the fair value of the redeemable
      noncontrolling interest falls below the redemption value, profit available
      to common stockholders would be reduced by the difference between the
      redemption value and the fair value.  This would result in lower
      profit in the profit per common share computation in that
      period.  Reductions impacting the profit per common share
      computation may be partially or fully reversed in subsequent periods if
      the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest increases
      relative to the redemption value.  Such increases in profit per
      common share would be limited to cumulative prior
      reductions.  During 2009, the estimated redemption value
      decreased, resulting in adjustments to the carrying value of the
      redeemable noncontrolling interest. Profit employed in the business
      increased by $81 million due to these adjustments. There was no change to
      the estimated redemption value in 2008.  As of December 31, 2009
      and 2008, the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest
      remained greater than the estimated redemption
  value. 

A-60 

We estimate
      the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest using a
      discounted five year forecasted cash flow with a year-five residual
      value.  If worldwide economic conditions deteriorate and Cat
      Japan's business forecast is negatively impacted, it is reasonably
      possible that the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest may
      fall below the estimated redemption value in the near
      term.  Should this occur, profit would be reduced in the profit
      per common share computation by the difference between the redemption
      value and the fair value.  Lower long-term growth rates, reduced
      long-term profitability as well as changes in interest rates, costs,
      pricing, capital expenditures and general market conditions may reduce the
      fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest. 

With the
      consolidation of Cat Japan's results of operations, 33 percent of Cat
      Japan's comprehensive income or loss is attributed to the redeemable
      noncontrolling interest, impacting its carrying value.  Because
      the redeemable noncontrolling interest must be reported at its estimated
      future redemption value, the impact from attributing the comprehensive
      income or loss is offset by adjusting the carrying value to the redemption
      value.  This adjustment impacts Profit employed in the business,
      but not Profit.  In 2009 and 2008, the carrying value had
      decreased by $53 million and $2 million, respectively, due to Cat Japan's
      comprehensive loss. This resulted in an offsetting adjustment of $53
      million in 2009 and $2 million in 2008 to increase the carrying value to
      the redemption value and a corresponding reduction to Profit employed in
      the business.  As Cat Japan's functional currency is the
      Japanese yen, changes in exchange rates affect the reported amount of the
      redeemable noncontrolling interest.  At December 31, 2009 and
      2008, the redeemable noncontrolling interest was $477 million and $524
      million, respectively. 

27. 

Employee
      separation charges 

In 2008, we
      recognized employee separation charges of $30 million in Other operating
      (income) expenses in Statement 1 related to various voluntary and
      involuntary separation programs.  These programs, impacting
      3,085 employees worldwide, were in response to a sharp decline in sales
      volume due to the global recession. 

In 2009,
      continued cost reduction efforts worldwide resulted in additional
      separation charges of $481 million, recognized in Other operating (income)
      expenses in Statement 1.  These efforts related to the following
      separation programs: 

U.S. Voluntary Separation
      Program -  During December 2008, we announced a voluntary separation
      program for certain support and management employees based in the United
      States.  Eligible employees had until January 12, 2009 to sign
      up for the program, and generally until January 31, 2009 to make a final
      decision.  Participating employees received severance pay based
      on current salary level and years of service.  During 2009,
      2,182 employees accepted the program, all of which were separated from
      Caterpillar by the end of 2009. 

Other U.S. Separation Programs
         During 2009, we initiated plans to reduce U.S. based positions
      through a variety of programs.  These programs represent both
      voluntary and involuntary separation plans.  During 2009, 6,611
      employees accepted or were subject to these programs. 

Non-U.S. Separation Programs
      -  During 2009, we initiated several other separation programs
      outside the U.S.  These programs, designed specific to the laws
      and regulations of the individual countries, represent voluntary and
      involuntary plans.  During 2009, 7,075 employees accepted or
      were subject to the various programs. 

Our accounting
      for separations is dependent upon how the particular program is
      designed.  For voluntary programs, eligible separation costs are
      recognized at the time of employee acceptance.  For involuntary
      programs, eligible costs are recognized when management has approved the
      program, the affected employees have been properly identified and the
      costs are estimable. 

The following
      table summarizes the 2008 and 2009 separation charges by geographic
      region: 

1  

Includes $8
      million for North America and $2 million for EAME. 

A-61 

The remaining
      balances as of December 31, 2009 represent costs for employees that have
      either not yet separated from the Company or their full severance has not
      yet been paid.  The majority of these remaining costs will be
      paid in the first half of 2010. 

The following
      table summarizes the number of employees that accepted or were subject to
      the programs: 

The majority
      of the employees that accepted or were subject to the programs but were
      still employed as of December 31, 2009 will be separated by the end of the
      first quarter 2010. 

In addition to
      the 2009 separation charges noted above, we recognized $225 million of
      costs associated with certain pension and other postretirement benefit
      plans, which were also recognized in Other operating (income) expenses in
      Statement 1.  See Note 14 for additional
      information. 

The majority
      of the separation charges, made up primarily of cash severance payments,
      and pension and other postretirement benefit costs noted above were not
      assigned to operating segments.  They are included in the
      reconciliation of total accountable profit from reportable segments to
      total profit before taxes.  See Note 24 for additional details
      surrounding this reconciliation. 

1  

Profit (loss)
      attributable to common stockholders. 

2  

Diluted by
      assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards using the treasury
      stock method. 

3  

In the first
      quarter 2009, the assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards was
      not considered because the impact would be
  anti-dilutive. 

A-62 

1  

Computed on
      weighted-average number of shares outstanding. 

2  

Computed on
      weighted-average number of shares outstanding diluted by assumed exercise
      of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury stock
      method. 

3  

Represents
      profit divided by average stockholders' equity (beginning of year
      stockholders' equity plus end of year stockholders' equity divided by
      two). 

4  

As discussed
      in Note 1K, effective December 31, 2006 we changed the manner in which we
      accounted for postemployment benefits. 

5  

As discussed
      in Note 2, in 2006 we changed the manner in which we accounted for
      stock-based compensation. 

6  

As discussed
      in Note 1K, in 2007 we changed the manner in which we accounted for
      uncertain tax positions. 

7  

Profit
      attributable to common stockholders. 

8  

As discussed
      in Note 29, effective January 1, 2009, we changed the manner in which we
      accounted for noncontrolling
interests. 

A-63 

MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

OVERVIEW   

We reported sales
and revenues of $32.396 billion for 2009, a decrease of 37 percent from $51.324
billion in 2008.  Profit per share for 2009 was $1.43, down 75 percent
from 2008.  Excluding  redundancy
costs  of $0.75, 2009 profit was $2.18 per share. 

Fourth-quarter 2009
sales and revenues were $7.898 billion, down 39 percent from the fourth quarter
of 2008.  Profit per share for the quarter was $0.36, down 67 percent
from the fourth quarter of 2008.  Excluding redundancy costs, profit
for the fourth quarter 2009 was $0.41 per share. 

While the economy in
2009 was the worst our company has experienced since the Great Depression, we
are proud to report that Team Caterpillar responded in an extraordinary
way.  We delivered solid profitability and cash flow and dramatically
improved our balance sheet.  In addition, we had continued access to
debt markets, improved our liquidity position, expanded credit facilities and
made a conscious decision to hold more cash.  As a result, we
maintained our dividend rate, made significant pension contributions and
continued to invest in new products and selective new capacity.  Our
employees, dealers and suppliers in every region of the world pulled together to
achieve these results, and we thank them for their hard work and
sacrifice.  As a result, we are exceptionally well positioned for
continued industry leadership and growth as the global economy
recovers. 

Sales and revenues
for 2009 decreased $18.928 billion from 2008, and profit of $895 million was
down 75 percent from $3.557 billion in 2008.  The decline in profit
was primarily due to significantly lower  sales
volume .  The impact of lower volume was partially offset by
lower costs, favorable income taxes and improved  price
realization . 

Highlights for 2009
include: 

Caterpillar's
      37-percent decrease in sales and revenues in 2009 was the largest
      single-year percentage decline in sales and revenues since the
      1940s. 

Caterpillar
      delivered profitability for the year at $1.43 per share, or $2.18 per
      share excluding redundancy costs. 

Manufacturing
      costs , selling, general and administrative (SG A) and research
      and development (R D) expenses declined nearly $2 billion from 2008,
      and income taxes were favorable. 

In 2009,
      dealers reduced new machine inventories $3.3 billion and new engine
      inventories $600 million, helping them weather a very difficult year and
      positioning them for growth as economic conditions improve. 

Solid cash
      flow and profit enabled Caterpillar to maintain its dividend rate in
      2009. 

Despite the
      impact of global economic conditions on capital markets in 2008 and 2009,
      Caterpillar and Cat Financial, our captive finance company, maintained
      access to capital both short-term commercial paper and long-term
      debt.  While Cat Financial's 2009 profit declined from 2008, it
      was profitable in every quarter of 2009. 

Caterpillar
      and Cat Financial maintained  mid-A  credit ratings throughout
      2009. 

During 2009,
      Caterpillar made approximately $1.1 billion in contributions to pension
      plans through a combination of cash and Caterpillar stock.  The
      funded status of plans was 61 percent at year-end 2008 and improved to 76
      percent by year-end 2009.  Contributions of approximately $1
      billion are expected in 2010. 

Implementation
      of Caterpillar's  economic trough  actions, beginning in the fourth
      quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009, was a significant factor in
      delivering positive results. 

A-64 

2010
OUTLOOK  

We expect 2010 sales
and revenues to be up 10 to 25 percent from 2009, and profit is expected to be
about $2.50 per share at the midpoint of the sales and revenues
range. 

We continue to see
signs of economic improvement, particularly in China and most developing
countries.  We are also seeing signs of improvement in North America,
Europe and Japan, but these economies remain weak and have not rebounded as
quickly as developing countries. 

We have seen a
marked increase in demand for mining equipment a result of continued strong
commodity prices and growing confidence in economic recovery.  We have
also seen improvement in sales of aftermarket service parts, which is usually an
early indicator of growing demand for machines and engines. 

In addition to
increased end-user demand, our sales are expected to improve as a result of
changes in dealer inventories in 2009.  Dealers reduced new machine
inventories by more than $3.3 billion and new engine inventories by more than
$600 million during 2009.  This means our sales in 2009 were below
end-user demand by nearly $4 billion.  We expect relatively little
change in dealer inventories in 2010 and as a result, our sales should be more
in line with end-user demand. 

We do not expect
significant redundancy costs in 2010.  Excluding redundancy, the most
significant positive factors driving the profit outlook are higher sales volume,
lower material costs and improved factory efficiency utilizing the  Caterpillar
Production System (CPS)  with  6
Sigma .  The most significant unfavorable factors are higher
taxes and an unfavorable mix of sales. 

We are encouraged by
signs of improving demand.  Dealer sales to end users are up, order
rates are up, dealer inventories came down in 2009, and we are seeing stronger
service parts sales.  As a result, we are focused on increasing
production levels in our plants and with our suppliers.  Although we
expect efficiency improvements in 2010, higher production will require selective
increases in employment, and we have already recalled more than 500 previously
laid-off production employees. 

We expect 2010 will
be a better year than 2009, and we are in an excellent position to benefit from
growth in the world economy. 

*Glossary of terms
included on pages A-87 to A-88; first occurrence of terms shown in bold
italics. 

A-65 

2009  COMPARED
WITH 2008  

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales
      and Revenues between 2008 (at left) and 2009 (at right).  Items
      favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with
      the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively
      impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar
      amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  The bar
      entitled  Machinery 
      Volume includes the impact of consolidation of  Caterpillar
      Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan)    sales.  Caterpillar
      management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with
      the company's Board of Directors and
employees. 

Sales and revenues
for 2009 were $32.396 billion, down $18.928 billion, or 37 percent, from
2008.  Machinery sales volume was down $13.894 billion, and  Engines 
volume declined $5.095 billion.  Price realization improved $910
million, and  currency 
had a negative impact on sales of $425 million, primarily due to a weaker euro
and British pound.  In addition,  Financial
Products  revenues decreased $424 million. 

Our  integrated
service businesses  tend to be more stable through the business cycle than
new machines and engines.  Although sales and revenues for these
businesses declined by about 15 percent during 2009, this was much less than the
decline in sales and revenues for the company in total.  Integrated
service businesses represented about 46 percent of total company sales and
revenues in 2009, up from about 34 percent in 2008. 

A-66 

Machinery
Sales  

Sales were $18.148
billion, a decrease of $13.656 billion, or 43 percent, from 2008. 

Excluding the
      consolidation of Cat Japan, sales volume decreased $14.769
      billion. 

Price
      realization increased $388 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $150 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $25 million
      unfavorable. 

The
      consolidation of Cat Japan added $875 million to
  sales. 

The severe
      worldwide recession caused construction spending to decline in many
      countries, and mining companies reduced output.  As a result,
      end users significantly reduced purchases of
  equipment. 

Year-over-year
      declines in dealer-reported deliveries to end users were most severe in
      the second and third quarters of 2009.  By year end,
      month-to-month trends in dealer deliveries were improving in all
      regions. 

Dealers
      reacted to the decline in end-user demand by reducing reported inventories
      more than $3.3 billion, contributing further to lower sales
      volume.  Dealer inventories were well below last year in both
      dollars and months of supply.  Months of supply were near the
      historical average. 

Declines in
      sales volume were most severe in the developed economies of North America,
      Europe and Japan.  Most of these economies were in recession
      throughout 2008, and credit market pressures in late 2008 caused output to
      drop sharply in early 2009. 

When the
      financial crisis worsened in late 2008, economic conditions in many
      developing countries were better than previous recessions.  Most
      reacted quickly by cutting interest rates and increasing infrastructure
      spending. 

North America    Sales
decreased $5.776 billion, or 45 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $166 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $1 million. 

Severe
      recessions in both Canada and the United States caused the decline in
      sales volume.  Machinery sales volume was the lowest since
      1982. 

Economic
      activity in nearly all key industries dropped sharply in
      2009.  Deliveries of machines, as reported by dealers, were the
      lowest since 1992. 

Dealers
      responded to lower demand by reducing reported inventories to a 14-year
      low.  Inventories were also well below a year earlier in months
      of supply. 

U.S.
      nonresidential building construction orders dropped 38
      percent.  Office vacancy rates increased to more than 16
      percent, and selling prices for office properties declined 24
      percent.  Retail property prices fell 17 percent.  In
      Canada nonresidential construction permits dropped 11
      percent. 

U.S. highway
      construction orders increased 5 percent, with the gain occurring in the
      last half of the year.  The American Recovery and Reinvestment
      Act provided additional funding for highways, which benefited resurfacing
      projects. 

The decline in
      construction activity caused U.S. quarry production to drop 16 percent,
      the third consecutive annual decline.  Record-low operating
      rates prompted producers to reduce capacity 6 percent.  Canadian
      producers cut production by 27
percent. 

Metals prices
      dropped sharply in late 2008, prompting mines to reduce production and
      curtail new investments.  Subsequent price recoveries led to
      some improvements later in the year, but not enough to offset a poor first
      half.  U.S. metal mining output declined 10 percent, and
      Canadian production was down 20
percent. 

Coal prices
      declined significantly, particularly in the first half of
      2009.  As a result, U.S. coal production dropped 7 percent, and
      Canadian production was off 17 percent.  Contributing factors
      included reduced utility burn, higher utility stocks and a 29-percent
      decline in U.S. coal exports. 

A-67 

EAME      Sales decreased $5.108
billion, or 55 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $50 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $174 million. 

Dealers
      reduced reported inventories sharply, which reversed inventory increases
      that occurred in 2008.  Inventories in months of supply fell to
      about half the year-earlier level. 

The worldwide
      credit crisis and recession impacted all regions, causing construction
      spending to weaken and commodity producers to reduce output.  As
      a result, dealers in all regions reported lower deliveries to end
      users.  Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) dealers
      reported the largest decline; Africa/Middle East dealers reported the
      smallest decline. 

Europe
      experienced its worst postwar recession, with the economy declining an
      estimated 4 percent in 2009.  Industrial production declined 15
      percent in the euro-zone and 11 percent in the United
    Kingdom. 

Housing
      construction declined in response to tight credit standards and lower home
      prices in many countries.  Construction permits fell 25 percent
      in the euro-zone and orders in the United Kingdom fell 23
      percent. 

Lower sales
      volume in Africa/Middle East resulted mostly from dealer inventory
      reductions, recessions in Turkey and South Africa and the financial crisis
      in Dubai.  Industrial production dropped 10 percent in Turkey
      and 12 percent in South
Africa. 

The recession
      caused building permits in Turkey to fall 17 percent.  South
      African housing permits were down 39 percent, and nonresidential permits
      were off 12 percent; mining production dropped 7
  percent. 

The
      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) crude oil price
      dropped to $60 per barrel, prompting producers to cut oil production by 8
      percent. 

Sales volume
      declined significantly in the CIS region due to severe recessions and
      financial turmoil.  Russia was one of the few countries to
      maintain higher average interest rates than in 2008, contributing to a
      10-percent decline in its economy. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales decreased
$1.221 billion, or 21 percent. 

Excluding the
      consolidation of Cat Japan, sales volume declined $2.270
      billion. 

Price
      realization increased $118 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $56 million. 

Dealers
      reported large inventory reductions, more than offsetting additions made
      in 2008.  Inventories in months of supply were less than half
      the year-earlier level and were below the historical
    average. 

Asian
      governments and central banks reacted aggressively to the worldwide
      economic downturn.  Most economies started recovering in the
      second quarter, which helped limit declines in end-user demand, as
      reported by dealers.  Dealers in China reported a slight
      increase in deliveries. 

China's
      recovery program included a 31-percent increase in lending and massive
      infrastructure spending.  The economy responded quickly and
      industrial production increased more than 10 percent.  Housing
      construction increased 16 percent, and nonresidential construction was up
      30 percent. 

India cut
      interest rates sharply and, as a result, industrial production increased 6
      percent.  Construction increased 7
  percent. 

A sluggish
      economy reduced sales volume in Australia.  Permits for housing
      construction declined 7 percent, but those for nonresidential construction
      were up 4 percent.  Mining profits declined, and expenditures
      for exploration dropped 26
percent. 

A return to
      deflation and a significant decline in exports further weakened the
      Japanese economy.  Orders for private construction fell 33
      percent, and those for public construction declined 11
      percent.  Machine sales volume was the lowest in at least 30
      years. 

Latin
America     
Sales decreased $1.551 billion, or 38 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $79 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $31 million. 

Dealers
      reduced reported inventories, more than offsetting amounts added in
      2008.  Inventories in months of supply were half the
      year-earlier level and were lower than the historical
    average. 

A-68 

The worldwide
      recession caused exports to decline in most countries.  That,
      along with interest rate increases in 2008, caused lower industrial
      production in most countries.  Construction and mining also
      declined, causing dealers to report lower deliveries to end
      users. 

The sales
      volume decline was most severe in Mexico.  Close ties to the
      U.S. economy and relatively slow interest rate reductions caused
      industrial production to decline 8 percent and construction 7
      percent. 

High interest
      rates in late 2008 caused Brazil's industrial production to drop 7 percent
      in 2009, with losses concentrated in the first half.  Reduced
      worldwide steel production caused a 22-percent decline in iron ore
      mining.  The decline in sales volume ended in the fourth quarter
      as interest rate reductions helped improve the
    economy. 

A large
      decline in sales volume occurred in Chile.  Interest rate
      increases taken in 2008 impacted the economy in 2009, causing industrial
      production to decline 9 percent.  Construction permits decreased
      15 percent.  Higher metals prices encouraged mines to increase
      production late in the year so that full-year production was about the
      same as 2008. 

Engines
Sales  

Sales were $11.392
billion, a decrease of $4.848 billion, or 30 percent, from 2008. 

Price
      realization increased $522 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $275 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $13 million
      unfavorable. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories were down, but months of supply increased, as dealer
      deliveries declined. 

North America    Sales
decreased $1.793 billion, or 33 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $196 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $2 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 20 percent primarily due to a decrease in
      demand for petroleum engines used for gas compression and drilling along
      with lower turbine sales. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 25 percent due to weak economic
      conditions and reduced availability of credit along with lower turbine
      sales. 

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 48 percent in response to substantially
      lower demand in construction and agricultural applications due to economic
      uncertainty and tight credit
conditions. 

EAME    Sales decreased $2.016
billion, or 32 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $197 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $254 million. 

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 47 percent based on significantly lower
      demand in construction and agricultural applications due to weak economic
      conditions and reduced availability of
credit. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 29 percent, as the impact of weak
      economic conditions and reduced availability of credit was partially
      offset by increased turbine sales as a result of timing of large power
      plant projects. 

Sales for
      marine applications decreased 36 percent due to weak economic
      conditions. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 15 percent primarily due to a slowdown in
      demand for engines used in production and drilling applications along with
      lower sales of turbines. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales decreased
$545 million, or 19 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $632 million. 

Price
      realization increased $110 million. 

Currency
      decreased sales by $23
million. 

A-69 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 23 percent, as a slowdown in Chinese
      land-based drill activity was partially offset by an increase in sales of
      turbines. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 15 percent, as the impact of weak
      economic conditions and reduced availability of credit was partially
      offset by increased turbine sales as a result of timing of large power
      plant projects. 

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 34 percent due to significantly lower
      demand in construction and mining support
  applications. 

Sales for
      marine applications decreased 2 percent due to weak economic conditions,
      partially offset by a strong order backlog for workboat and general cargo
      vessels. 

Latin America    Sales
decreased $494 million, or 31 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $530 million. 

Price
      realization increased $32 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $4 million. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 49 percent due to worsening economic
      conditions and reduced availability of
credit. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 17 percent due to a slowdown in demand
      for production power applications and lower turbine
  sales. 

Financial Products
Revenues  

Revenues were $2.856
billion, a decrease of $424 million, or 13 percent, from 2008. 

Revenues
      decreased $123 million due to the impact of lower interest rates on new
      and existing finance receivables and $105 million due to a decrease in
      average  earning
      assets . 

Other revenues
      at Cat Financial decreased $120 million.  The decrease was
      primarily due to a $77 million unfavorable impact from returned or
      repossessed equipment and the absence of a $12 million gain related to the
      sale of receivables in 2008. 

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Operating Profit between 2008 (at left) and 2009 (at
      right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit   appear
      as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each
      bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward
      stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each
      bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and
      employees.  The bar entitled Other/M E Redundancy includes
      the operating profit impact of  consolidating
      adjustments , consolidation of Cat Japan and  Machinery
      and Engines other operating (income) expenses , which include
      Machinery and Engines redundancy
costs. 

A-70 

Operating profit in
2009 was $577 million compared to an operating profit of $4.448 billion in
2008.  Lower sales volume was the primary reason for the
decline.  Sales volume includes the impact of a favorable mix of
products for both Machinery and Engines.  Price realization improved
$910 million. 

Manufacturing
costs  improved $646 million.  Significant inventory reduction
resulted in $300 million ($0.39 per share) of  LIFO inventory
decrement benefits .  Excluding decrement benefits,
manufacturing costs decreased $346 million.  Selling, general and
administrative (SG A) and research and development (R D) expenses
declined $1.314 billion as a result of significant cost-cutting
measures. 

Currency had a $376
million favorable impact on operating profit as the benefit to costs more than
offset the negative impact on sales. 

Redundancy costs
were $706 million.  Cat Japan unfavorably impacted operating profit by
$348 million. 

1  

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business operating profit for Machinery
      and Engines. 

Machinery   operating loss was $1.007 billion compared to an
      operating profit of $1.803 billion for 2008.  Sharply lower
      sales volume, redundancy costs and losses at Cat Japan were partially
      offset by lower SG A and R D expenses, a decline in manufacturing
      costs including LIFO inventory decrement benefits, improved price
      realization and favorable
currency.  

Engines   operating profit of $1.464 billion was down $855
      million, or 37 percent, from 2008.  Lower sales volume and
      redundancy costs were partially offset by improved price realization,
      lower SG A and R D expenses and favorable
      currency.  Although total Engines operating profit declined
      during 2009, operating profit for turbines increased and represented about
      half of total Engines operating profit in 2009 compared with about
      one-quarter in 2008.  

Financial Products
       operating profit of $381 million was down $198 million, or 34
      percent, from 2008.  The decrease was primarily attributable to
      a $77 million unfavorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment, a
      $51 million impact from decreased net yield on average earning assets, a
      $47 million unfavorable impact from lower average earning assets, a $33
      million increase in the provision for credit losses at Cat Financial, a
      $20 million increase in other operating expenses and the absence of a $12
      million gain related to the sale of receivables in 2008, partially offset
      by a $70 million decrease in SG A expenses (excluding the provision
      for credit losses). 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Interest expense excluding
      Financial Products  increased $115 million due to higher average
      debt.  As a result of the weak economic environment and
      uncertain capital markets, we have held more cash than
    usual. 

Other income/expense  was
      income of $381 million compared with income of $327 million in
      2008.  The increase was primarily due to the favorable impact
      from net foreign exchange gains and
losses. 

The provision for income taxes
        reflects a significantly more
      favorable effective tax rate than in 2008.  The improvement was
      driven primarily by a more favorable geographic mix of profits and losses
      from a tax perspective, along with tax benefits related to prior-year tax
      returns of $133 million and a larger percentage benefit from U.S.
      permanent differences and credits including the research and development
      tax credit.  The prior-year tax benefits primarily resulted from
      the U.S. settlement of tax years 1995 to 1999 and the true-up of estimated
      amounts used in the 2008 tax provision to the U.S. tax return as
      filed.  The 2008 provision for income taxes included $456
      million of benefits primarily related to the repatriation of non-U.S.
      earnings with available foreign tax credits in excess of the U.S. tax
      liability on the dividend.  

Equity in profit/(loss) of
      unconsolidated affiliated companies  was a loss of $12 million
      compared with income of $37 million in 2008.  The decrease was
      primarily related to the absence of equity profit in 2008 after the
      consolidation of Cat Japan. 

A-71 

Profit/loss attributable to
      noncontrolling interests  (formerly minority interest) favorably
      impacted profit by $96 million from 2008, primarily due to adding back 33
      percent of Cat Japan's losses attributable to Mitsubishi Heavy
      Industries. 

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business financial
  data. 

FOURTH QUARTER
 2009 COMPARED WITH FOURTH QUARTER 2008  

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales
      and Revenues between fourth quarter 2008 (at left) and fourth quarter 2009
      (at right).  Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear
      as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each
      bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as
      downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above
      each bar.  The bar entitled Machinery Volume includes Cat
      Japan sales.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts
      internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors
      and employees. 

Sales and revenues
for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $7.898 billion, down $5.025 billion, or 39
percent, from the fourth quarter 2008.  Machinery sales volume was
down $3.357 billion, and Engines volume declined $1.988
billion.  Price realization improved $199 million, and currency had a
positive impact on sales of $219 million, primarily due to a stronger Australian
dollar and euro.  In addition, Financial Products revenues decreased
$98 million. 

A-72 

Our integrated
service businesses tend to be more stable through the business cycle than new
machines and engines.  Although volume declined for these businesses
from the fourth quarter of 2008, it was much less than the decline in sales and
revenues for the company in total.  Integrated service businesses
represented about 48 percent of total company sales and revenues in the fourth
quarter of 2009, up from about 32 percent in the fourth quarter of
2008. 

1  

Does not
      include internal engine transfers of $434 million and
      $646 million in fourth quarter 2009 and 2008, respectively. Internal
      engine transfers are valued at prices comparable to those for unrelated
      parties. 

2  

Does not
      include revenues earned from Machinery and Engines of $65 million and
      $66 million in fourth quarter 2009 and 2008,
      respectively. 

Machinery
Sales  

Sales were $4.564
billion, a decrease of $3.111 billion, or 41 percent, from fourth quarter
2008. 

Price
      realization increased $83 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $163 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $3 million
      unfavorable. 

Sales declined
      significantly from the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of severe
      economic decline.  While lower than 2008, sales on a seasonally
      adjusted basis improved as we progressed through the
    quarter. 

Most dealers
      continued to reduce reported inventories in the fourth quarter of
      2009.  Dealer inventories were well below last year in both
      dollars and months of supply.  Months of supply ended the year
      in line with the historical
average. 

Developing
      countries responded quickly to the economic crisis with effective
      infrastructure spending programs and record-low interest
      rates.  Monthly trends in end-user demand, based on dealer
      reporting, showed robust improvements over the quarter, particularly in
      Asia and Latin America. 

Recoveries in
      the larger developing economies of Brazil, China and India progressed, and
      dealer deliveries were higher than a year
  earlier. 

In contrast,
      the developed economies of North America, Europe and Japan had longer,
      deeper recessions than the developing economies.  These
      recoveries, which started in the second or third quarter of 2009, have
      been more subdued.  As a result, declines in dealer deliveries
      from the fourth quarter of 2008 were much larger on a percentage basis
      than in developing economies. 

North America    Sales
decreased $1.276 billion, or 45 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $10 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $2 million. 

Both the U.S.
      and Canadian economies started to recover in the third quarter of 2009,
      and activity in key industries stabilized or began to improve in the
      fourth quarter. 

Dealer-reported
      deliveries to end users improved throughout the
  quarter. 

Dealers
      reduced reported inventories further, taking them to the lowest level
      since 1995.  Inventories in months of supply were well below
      last year. 

A-73 

U.S. housing
      starts, despite a modest recovery starting in the second quarter of 2009,
      were 16 percent below a year earlier.  Canadian permits for home
      construction increased 24 percent, but starts were off 1
      percent. 

U.S. orders
      for nonresidential building construction dropped 31 percent, the smallest
      quarterly year-over-year decline in 2009.  This sector, which
      normally lags the overall economy, struggled with high vacancy rates and
      declining commercial property prices.  Nonresidential
      construction permits in Canada increased almost 11
  percent. 

U.S. contracts
      for highway and street construction increased 10 percent.  The
      U.S. government's recovery program has already committed more than $20
      billion in highway funding, mostly for pavement
    improvements. 

With total
      construction spending still declining, U.S. nonmetals mining and quarry
      production fell 15 percent.  Canadian miners also reduced
      output. 

Metals prices,
      benefiting from a recovery throughout the year, were 40 percent higher in
      the fourth quarter than a year earlier.  U.S. metals production
      improved during the quarter but was still down 7 percent compared to a
      year earlier.  Canadian production dropped 29
      percent. 

U.S. coal
      production declined 11 percent due to lower exports, reduced utility usage
      and high utility stocks.  In contrast, Canadian production
      increased 2 percent. 

EAME    Sales decreased $1.051
billion, or 52 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $9 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $67 million. 

The European
      economy has started to recover from its worst postwar recession, and
      higher commodity prices have begun to benefit Africa/Middle East and
      CIS.  As a result, year-over-year volume declines were less
      severe in the fourth quarter than in the prior two
    quarters. 

Dealers
      reduced reported inventories considerably during the quarter, taking
      inventories well below last year in both dollars and months of
      supply. 

Africa/Middle
      East accounted for more than half the sales volume decline, with inventory
      reductions a major contributor.  End-user demand, as reported by
      dealers, declined significantly in South Africa where both mining and
      construction were weak.  Demand also dropped sharply in the
      United Arab Emirates due to the Dubai financial
  crisis. 

The CIS was
      the next largest contributor to the volume decline as a result of severe
      recessions in both Russia and Ukraine.  Construction declined 11
      percent in Russia. 

The European
      economy recovered slowly, with both industrial production and retail sales
      lower than a year earlier.  Dealer reports of their deliveries
      indicated some improvement during the quarter; however, delivery rates
      remained well below a year earlier. 

Housing
      permits in the euro-zone declined, but U.K. housing orders surged 27
      percent.  Nonresidential construction indicators dropped in both
      the euro-zone and the U.K. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales decreased
$408 million, or 25 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $505 million. 

Price
      realization increased $39 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $58 million. 

Cat Japan's
      sales, included in both the fourth quarter of 2008 and the fourth quarter
      of 2009, were about flat. 

Dealer
      inventories ended 2009 well below 2008 in both dollars and months of
      supply.  Months of supply were less than half the year-earlier
      level and were below the historical
average. 

Governments
      responded to the economic crisis by increasing infrastructure spending,
      and most central banks took interest rates to record
      lows.  Economies responded quickly and recoveries are
      underway.  Dealers in developing countries reported deliveries
      to end users slightly higher than in fourth quarter
  2008. 

Dealer
      deliveries increased in China.  Infrastructure spending and a
      33-percent increase in bank lending benefited construction and our dealer
      deliveries. 

India's
      interest rate reductions led to an 11-percent increase in industrial
      production, and economic recovery in Indonesia increased both construction
      spending and mining. 

A-74 

In Australia,
      approvals for new construction increased but low approvals in prior months
      continued to depress deliveries in the fourth quarter of
    2009. 

The Japanese
      economy remained weak in the fourth quarter 2009.  Private
      construction orders fell 22 percent; public orders fell 20
      percent. 

Latin America    Sales
decreased $376 million, or 32 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $440 million. 

Price
      realization increased $28 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $36 million. 

Dealer
      inventories were lower than a year earlier in both dollars and months of
      supply.  Months of supply were about half the year-earlier level
      and below the historical average. 

The region is
      recovering from recession, with declines in both construction and mining
      moderating the last two quarters.  Trends in dealer-reported
      deliveries improved during the quarter, and the year-over-year decline in
      the fourth quarter was much lower than for the two prior
      quarters. 

In Brazil,
      record-low interest rates led to slightly higher industrial
      production. 

In Mexico,
      construction spending declined 7 percent.  Close ties to the
      U.S. economy and relatively slow interest rate reductions caused a severe
      recession. 

Engines
Sales  

Sales were $2.629
billion, a decrease of $1.816 billion, or 41 percent, from fourth quarter
2008. 

Price
      realization increased $116 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $56 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $5 million
      favorable. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories were down, and months of supply increased, as dealer
      deliveries declined. 

North America    Sales
decreased $628 million, or 46 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $646 million. 

Price
      realization increased $17 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $1 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 60 percent primarily due to a decrease in
      sales for petroleum engines used for gas compression and drilling as well
      as lower turbine sales. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 44 percent due to weak economic
      conditions, reduced availability of credit and lower turbine
      sales. 

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 47 percent based on substantially lower
      demand in construction and agricultural applications due to economic
      uncertainty and tight credit
conditions. 

EAME    Sales decreased $657
million, or 39 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $733 million. 

Price
      realization increased $52 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $24 million. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 32 percent due to weak economic
      conditions and reduced availability of credit combined with dealer efforts
      to reduce inventory, partially offset by higher turbine
    sales. 

Sales for
      marine applications decreased 61 percent due to weak economic
      conditions. 

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 46 percent based on significantly lower
      demand in construction and agricultural applications due to weak economic
      conditions and reduced availability of
credit. 

A-75 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 27 percent primarily due to a slowdown in
      demand for engines used in production applications and land-based drilling
      as well as lower turbine sales. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales decreased
$240 million, or 28 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $299 million. 

Price
      realization increased $40 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $19 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 38 percent primarily due to a slowdown in
      Chinese land-based drill activity and lower turbine
  sales. 

Sales of
      electric power applications decreased 26 percent due to cancelled and
      delayed projects in China and India, partially offset by higher turbine
      sales. 

Sales for
      marine applications decreased 23 percent due to weak economic conditions,
      partially offset by a strong order backlog for workboat and general cargo
      vessels. 

Latin America    Sales
decreased $291 million, or 53 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $305 million. 

Price
      realization increased $2 million. 

Currency
      increased sales by $12 million. 

Sales of
      electric power applications decreased 76 percent due to weak economic
      conditions, reduced availability of credit and lower turbine
      sales. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications decreased 46 percent due to a slowdown in demand
      for production power applications, especially in Argentina, and lower
      turbine sales. 

Financial Products
Revenues  

Revenues were $705
million, a decrease of $98 million, or 12 percent, from fourth quarter
2008. 

Lower average
      earning assets decreased revenues $49
million. 

Other revenues
      at Cat Financial decreased $25 million, primarily due to the unfavorable
      impact from returned or repossessed
equipment. 

A-76 

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Operating Profit between fourth quarter 2008 (at left) and fourth quarter
      2009 (at right).  Items favorably impacting operating
      profit   appear
      as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each
      bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward
      stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each
      bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and
      employees.  The bar entitled Other/M E Redundancy includes
      the operating profit impact of consolidating adjustments,  Cat
      Japan and Machinery and Engines other operating (income) expenses, which
      include Machinery and Engines redundancy
costs. 

Fourth-quarter 2009
operating profit was $128 million compared to operating profit of $457 million
in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The sharp decline in sales volume
lowered operating profit $1.575 billion.  Price realization improved
$199 million. 

Manufacturing costs
improved $607 million, of which $70 million ($0.09 per share) was related to
LIFO inventory decrement benefits.  Excluding decrement benefits,
manufacturing costs improved $537 million.  Overhead, material and
labor costs were favorable.  Selling, general and administrative
(SG A) and research and development (R D) expenses declined $496 million
as a result of significant cost-cutting measures. 

Currency had a $140
million favorable impact on operating profit as the benefit to sales more than
offset the negative impact on costs.  Cat Japan unfavorably impacted
operating profit by $87 million.  Redundancy costs were $65 million in
the fourth quarter of 2009. 

1  

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business operating profit for Machinery
      and Engines. 

A-77 

Machinery  operating loss
      was $123 million compared to an operating loss of $6 million in the fourth
      quarter of 2008.  Sharply lower sales volume and losses at Cat
      Japan were partially offset by a decrease in manufacturing costs, lower
      SG A and R D expenses, improved price realization and LIFO
      inventory decrement benefits. 

Engines  operating profit
      of $242 million was down $196 million, or 45 percent, from the fourth
      quarter of 2008.  Sharply lower sales volume was partially
      offset by lower SG A and R D expenses, improved price realization
      and the favorable impact of currency.  Operating profit for
      turbines decreased primarily due to lower sales volume, but represented
      about 70 percent of total Engines operating profit in the fourth quarter
      of 2009 compared with about half in the fourth quarter
    2008. 

Financial Products
       operating profit of $63 million was down $11 million, or 15
      percent, from the fourth quarter of 2008.  The decrease was
      primarily attributable to a $23 million unfavorable impact from returned
      or repossessed equipment and a $21 million unfavorable impact from lower
      average earning assets, partially offset by a $31 million impact from
      increased net yield on average earning
assets. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Interest expense excluding
      Financial Products  increased $17 million due to higher average
      debt.  As a result of the weak economic environment and
      uncertain capital markets, we have held more cash than
    usual. 

Other income/expense  was
      income of   $88
      million compared with expense of $24 million in the fourth quarter of
      2008.  The increase was primarily related to the absence of
      unfavorable mark-to-market adjustments on interest rate derivative
      contracts at Cat Financial and the impairment of investments in Cat
      Insurance's portfolio during the fourth quarter of 2008.  In
      addition, currency exchange gains and losses were
    favorable. 

The provision/benefit for
      income taxes   for the fourth quarter
      of 2009 reflects a more favorable geographic mix of profits and losses
      from a tax perspective and a larger percentage benefit from U.S. permanent
      differences and credits including the research and development tax credit
      than the fourth quarter of 2008.  An actual (discrete period)
      calculation was used to report the quarterly tax provision during 2009 as
      the estimated range of profit before tax produced significant variability
      and made it difficult to reasonably estimate the annual effective tax
      rate.  This approach results in more volatility in the quarterly
      effective tax rate, particularly with the reduced overall profit
      levels.  The fourth quarter of 2008 included a $409 million
      benefit due to the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings with available
      foreign tax credits in excess of the U.S. tax liability on the
      dividend . 

Equity in profit/loss of
      unconsolidated affiliated companies  was expense of $13 million
      compared with profit of $5 million in the fourth quarter of
      2008.  The decrease is primarily related to start-up expenses
      from NC 2
       Global LLC, our joint venture with
  Navistar. 

Profit/loss attributable to
      noncontrolling interests   (formerly
      minority interest) favorably impacted profit by $28 million from the
      fourth quarter of   2008, primarily due
      to losses at Cat Japan in 2009.  One-third of Cat Japan's losses
      are attributable to Mitsubishi Heavy
  Industries.  

A-78 

2008  COMPARED
WITH 2007  

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales
      and Revenues between 2007 (at left) and 2008 (at right).  Items
      favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with
      the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively
      impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar
      amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  The bar
      entitled Machinery Volume includes the impact of consolidation of Cat
      Japan sales. Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and
      employees. 

Sales and revenues
for 2008 were $51.324 billion, up $6.366 billion, or 14 percent, from
2007.  Machinery sales volume was up $2.399 billion, driven by
strength in developing economies. Engines sales volume increased $1.678 billion
due to growth in all major industries, with particular strength in
petroleum. 

In addition, price
realization contributed $1.352 billion, currency had a positive impact on sales
of $653 million driven primarily by the stronger euro and Financial Products
revenues increased 9 percent. 

A-79 

Machinery
Sales   

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sales of $31.804
billion increased $3.445 billion, or 12 percent, from 2007 

Excluding the
      consolidation of Cat Japan, sales volume increased $2.138 billion, with
      the gain occurring in the developing economies of Africa/Middle East,
      Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Asia/Pacific and Latin
      America. 

Price
      realization increased $541 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $505 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $2 million
      favorable. 

Dealers in all
      regions reported higher inventories than year-end 2007 in both dollars and
      months of supply. 

The U.S.
      economy was in recession throughout 2008, which contributed to weaknesses
      in both construction and quarrying.  Coal mining and oil sands
      development were about the only positives for North
    America. 

The euro-zone
      entered recession in the second quarter and the United Kingdom in the
      third quarter.  As a result of these recessions, housing
      construction declined sharply, nonresidential construction weakened and
      sales volume declined. 

Sales improved
      in the developing regions of Africa/Middle East, CIS, Asia/Pacific and
      Latin America through the first three quarters of
      2008.  However, growth slowed sharply in the fourth quarter in
      response to weakening economies. 

North America    Sales
increased $173 million, or 1 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $143 million. 

Price
      realization increased $316 million. 

Dealers added
      slightly to reported inventories this year, a contrast to more than a
      billion-dollar reduction in 2007.  Dealers reported higher
      inventories than a year earlier in both dollars and months of
      supply. 

Dealers
      reported significantly lower deliveries to end users, a result of the
      recession in the United States that persisted throughout the
      year.  That recession led to lower sales in most key industries
      other than coal mining and the Canadian oil
  sands. 

U.S. housing
      starts declined to 904 thousand units, the lowest since
      1945.  Negatives for housing included a severe tightening in
      mortgage lending standards, sharp declines in home prices and more than an
      11-month supply of unsold new homes.  Canadian housing starts
      declined 6 percent. 

Spending for
      U.S. nonresidential construction increased in response to the surge in new
      orders over the past few years.  However, new orders for
      commercial construction declined 18 percent in 2008.  Problems
      for building construction included increased vacancy rates, declines in
      property prices and tighter credit conditions for
    businesses. 

New orders for
      highway construction declined almost 7 percent.  Unfavorable
      factors included limited growth in Federal highway funding, state and
      local government budget difficulties and a sharp increase in material
      input prices. 

Nonmetals
      mining and quarry production dropped almost 14 percent in response to
      lower construction activity. 

The Central
      Appalachian coal price rose 90 percent, driven by a 43-percent increase in
      U.S. coal exports.  U.S. coal production increased 2.2 percent,
      and Canadian production rose 1.2 percent.  As a result, sales of
      the large tractors used in coal mining
surged. 

Investment in
      Canadian oil sands increased 23 percent, benefiting from a 38-percent
      increase in crude oil prices. 

EAME    Sales increased $632
million, or 7 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $196 million. 

Price
      realization increased $66 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $370 million. 

Dealers
      reported year-end 2008 inventories that were significantly higher than a
      year earlier in both dollars and months of
  supply. 

Sales volume
      dropped in both the euro-zone and the United Kingdom, due to recessions
      and a slowing in
construction. 

A-80 

Housing
      permits in the euro-zone dropped 22 percent, and U.K. housing orders fell
      35 percent.  High interest rates and home price declines in
      several European countries contributed to weakness in
    housing. 

Mining and
      energy development, as well as increased construction, caused sales volume
      to increase in Africa/Middle East.  Oil prices increased 37
      percent, and production rose more than 4 percent from a year earlier,
      which led to an increase in
drilling. 

Sales volume
      increased significantly in the CIS region, despite economic problems that
      developed in the fourth quarter.  Positive factors included low
      interest rates, increased government spending, increased energy prices and
      higher production of most energy
commodities. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$1,683 million, or 42 percent. 

Sales volume
      excluding the consolidation of Cat Japan increased $1,254
      million. 

Price
      realization increased $91 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $77 million. 

Dealers
      reported year-end 2008 inventories that were significantly higher than a
      year earlier in both dollars and months of
  supply. 

The largest
      gain in sales volume occurred in China, the result of higher sales of
      locally produced wheel loaders and increased construction
      activity. 

Another large
      gain in sales volume occurred in Indonesia, largely due to much higher
      coal prices.  Indonesia is the world's largest exporter of
      thermal coal, and coal supplies in Asia were very tight for most of the
      year. 

Sales volume
      increased in Australia, primarily due to high metals and energy
      prices.  Capital expenditures for mineral development increased
      37 percent, and expenditures for coal increased 46
      percent.  Rapid growth in the mining industry stretched
      infrastructure capacity so investment in infrastructure increased 13
      percent. 

In India,
      11-percent growth in construction and 4 percent higher mining output
      contributed to an increase in sales
volume. 

Latin America    Sales
increased $957 million, or 30 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $833 million. 

Price
      realization increased $66 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $58 million. 

Dealers
      reported year-end 2008 inventories that were significantly higher than a
      year earlier in both dollars and months of
  supply. 

Brazil had the
      largest increase in sales volume.  Economic growth continued to
      benefit from interest rate reductions taken in 2007, resulting in a
      10-percent increase in construction.  Iron ore exports increased
      62 percent, due to increased production and much higher
      prices. 

Sales volume
      increased sharply in Mexico.  Positives included much higher oil
      prices, increased natural gas production and 3-percent growth in
      construction. 

Sales volume
      growth in Colombia occurred in response to much higher coal
      prices.  In Chile, high copper prices led to an increase in
      sales volume. 

Engines
Sales  

Sales of $16.240
billion increased $2.637 billion, or 19 percent, from 2007. 

Price
      realization increased $811 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales $148 million. 

Geographic mix
      between regions (included in price realization) was $36 million
      favorable. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories were up, and months of supply were up slightly, supporting
      strong delivery rates. 

A-81 

North America    Sales   increased $353 million,
or 7 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $62 million. 

Price
      realization increased $291 million. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications increased 10 percent compared to a very weak
      2007.  Demand remained below historic norms due to the slowing
      U.S. economy that resulted in a reduction in freight tonnage. Also, the
      impact of the decision to exit the on-highway truck business was starting
      to be felt as Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) customers reduced
      their reliance on Caterpillar
products. 

Sales for
      petroleum engine applications increased 5 percent, driven by a slight
      increase in natural gas and drilling
  applications. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 37 percent, with strong demand early in the
      year for supply vessels that support offshore drilling.  This
      more than offset a decline in engine sales for pleasure
    craft. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 11
percent. 

Sales for
      electric power applications decreased 2 percent due to economic
      uncertainty and tightening credit
conditions. 

EAME    Sales increased $1,066
million, or 20 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $639 million. 

Price
      realization increased $293 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $134 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 46 percent based on strong demand for
      engines used in drilling and production.  Turbines and
      turbine-related services increased in support of gas transmission and oil
      and gas production applications in Africa, Europe and the Middle
      East. 

Sales for
      electric power applications increased 18 percent, with strong demand for
      large- and mid-sized generator sets into Africa and the Middle
      East.  Mid-sized generator sets also benefited from successful
      rental development. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 30 percent in workboats and commercial
      vessels. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 6 percent, with strong demand for small
      engines used in the telecom sector.  In addition, demand for
      agricultural applications also improved as a result of high agricultural
      commodity prices. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$774 million, or 36 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $603 million. 

Price
      realization increased $157 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $14 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 54 percent to support record Chinese
      drill rig activity and increased demand for Asian shipyards in support of
      offshore drilling. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 30 percent, with strong demand for workboats
      and offshore shipbuilding.  Large diesel demand grew in the
      offshore and general cargo
industries. 

Sales of
      electric power engines increased 18 percent, with increased demand from
      Bangladesh industrial customers, and continued success with Chinese coal
      mine methane customers, for large gas generator sets.  Diesel
      demand resulted from data and telecommunication center demand in China,
      and utility, mining and paper mill demand from
  Indonesia. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 62 percent driven by sales in Australia
      into mining and irrigation sectors and by sales in New
      Zealand. 

Latin America    Sales
increased $444 million, or 39 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $410 million. 

Price
      realization increased $34 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 61 percent driven by the heightened
      demand for power to support drilling and production in Argentina,
      Venezuela, Mexico and Peru. Turbines and turbine-related services
      increased for oil and gas production and gas transmission applications in
      South America. 

Sales of
      electric power engines increased 37 percent driven by high commodity
      prices and infrastructure
investment. 

A-82 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 29 percent.  This demand was
      driven by good economic conditions and higher agricultural commodity
      prices. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications decreased 7 percent as a result of a loss of
      OEM business in this region. 

Financial Products
Revenues  

Revenues of $3.280
billion increased $284 million, or 9 percent, from 2007. 

Growth in
      average earning assets increased revenues $368 million, which was
      partially offset by a decrease of $175 million due to lower interest rates
      on new and existing finance
receivables. 

Revenues from
      earned premiums at Cat Insurance increased $84
  million. 

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The chart
      above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Operating Profit between 2007 (at left) and 2008 (at
      right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit appear as
      upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar,
      while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair
      steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each
      bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and
      employees.  The bar entitled Other includes the operating profit
      impact of consolidating adjustments, consolidation of Cat Japan and
      Machinery and Engines other operating
expenses. 

2008 operating
profit of $4.448 billion was down $473 million from 2007 as improved price
realization and higher sales volume were more than offset by higher costs and
the unfavorable impact of currency. 

Manufacturing costs
increased $1.694 billion compared with 2007.  The majority of the
manufacturing cost increase was driven by higher material and freight
costs.  Material costs increased due to higher steel and commodity
prices, and freight costs increased primarily due to higher fuel prices, and
expediting costs related to higher production volume.  In addition,
manufacturing labor and overhead costs increased to support capacity expansion
and velocity initiatives. 

SG A and R D
costs were up $605 million to support significant new product programs and
growth. 

Currency had a $154
million unfavorable impact on operating profit as the benefit to sales was more
than offset by the negative impact on costs. 

A-83 

1  

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business operating profit for Machinery
      and Engines. 

Machinery  operating profit of
$1.803 billion was down $955 million, or 35 percent, from
2007.  Improved price realization and higher sales volume were more
than offset by higher costs and the unfavorable impact of currency. Although
machinery operating profit has declined in 2008, operating profit for the Mining
segment improved primarily due to higher sales volumes and was a higher
proportion of total machinery operating profit. 

Engines  operating profit of
$2.319 billion was up $493 million, or 27 percent, from 2007.  The
favorable impacts of improved price realization and higher sales volume were
partially offset by higher costs. 

Financial Products  operating
profit of $579 million was down $111 million, or 16 percent, from
2007.  The decrease was attributable to a $136 million increase in
SG A expenses due primarily to a $95 million increase in the provision for
credit losses at Cat Financial, a $105 million impact from decreased net yield
of average earning assets, partially offset by a $130 million favorable impact
from higher average earning assets. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Other income/expense  was
income of $327 million compared with income of $357 million in
2007.  The favorable currency impacts of $79 million were more than
offset by a $50 million unfavorable change in mark-to-market adjustments on
interest rate derivative contracts at Cat Financial and a $37 million impairment
of investments in Cat Insurance's portfolio as a result of poor market
performance.  In addition, a 2008 gain of $60 million on the sale of
our equity investment in ASV was partially offset by the absence of a $46
million gain on the sale of a cost-basis investment in 2007. 

The provision for income taxes
 for 2008 reflects an annual tax rate of 31.3 percent, excluding the
discrete items discussed below, compared to a 29.8-percent rate in
2007.  The increase in the tax rate excluding discrete items over 2007
is attributable to changes in our geographic mix of profits from a tax
perspective. 

The provision for
income taxes for 2008 also includes discrete benefits of $456
million.  Repatriation of non-U.S. earnings resulted in a tax benefit
of $409 million due to available foreign tax credits in excess of the U.S. tax
liability on the dividend.  A benefit of $47 million was also recorded
in 2008 due to a change in tax status of a non-U.S. subsidiary allowing
indefinite reinvestment of undistributed profits and reversal of U.S. tax
previously recorded. 

Equity in profit/(loss) of
unconsolidated affiliated companies  was income of $37 million compared
with income of $73 million in 2007. The decrease is primarily related to lower
profit at  Shin Caterpillar
Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM)  through the first nine months and the absence of
profit after the consolidation of Cat Japan. 

On August 1, 2008,
SCM redeemed one-half of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.'s (MHI's) shares in
SCM for $464 million.  Caterpillar now owns 67 percent of the renamed
entity, Caterpillar Japan Ltd.  We consolidated Cat Japan's balance
sheet on September 30, 2008.  We began consolidating Cat Japan's
results of operations in the fourth quarter. 

Employee Separation
Charges   

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    In 2008, we
recognized employee separation charges of $30 million in Other operating
(income) expenses related to various voluntary and involuntary separation
programs.  These programs, impacting 3,085 employees worldwide, were
in response to a sharp decline in sales volume due to the global
recession. 

A-84 

In 2009, continued
cost reduction efforts worldwide resulted in additional separation charges of
$481 million, recognized in Other operating (income) expenses.  These
efforts related to the following separation programs: 

U.S. Voluntary Separation
      Program -  During December 2008, we announced a voluntary separation
      program for certain support and management employees based in the United
      States.  Eligible employees had until January 12, 2009 to sign
      up for the program, and generally until January 31, 2009 to make a final
      decision.  Participating employees received severance pay based
      on current salary level and years of service.  During 2009,
      2,182 employees accepted the program, all of which were separated from
      Caterpillar by the end of 2009. 

Other U.S. Separation Programs
         During 2009, we initiated plans to reduce U.S. based positions
      through a variety of programs.  These programs represent both
      voluntary and involuntary separation plans.  During 2009, 6,611
      employees accepted or were subject to these programs. 

Non-U.S. Separation Programs
      -  During 2009, we initiated several other separation programs
      outside the U.S.  These programs, designed specific to the laws
      and regulations of the individual countries, represent voluntary and
      involuntary plans.  During 2009, 7,075 employees accepted or
      were subject to the various
programs. 

Our accounting for
separations is dependent upon how the particular program is
designed.  For voluntary programs, eligible separation costs are
recognized at the time of employee acceptance.  For involuntary
programs, eligible costs are recognized when management has approved the
program, the affected employees have been properly identified and the costs are
estimable. 

The following table
summarizes the 2008 and 2009 separation charges by geographic
region: 

1  

Includes $8
      million for North America and $2 million for EAME. 

The remaining
balances as of December 31, 2009 represent costs for employees that have either
not yet separated from the Company or their full severance has not yet been
paid.  The majority of these remaining costs will be paid in the first
half of 2010. 

The following table
summarizes the number of employees that accepted or were subject to the
programs: 

The majority of the
employees that accepted or were subject to the programs but were still employed
as of December 31, 2009 will be separated by the end of the first quarter
2010. 

In addition to the
2009 separation charges noted above, we recognized $225 million of costs
associated with certain pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which
were also recognized in Other operating (income) expenses. 

The majority of the
separation charges, made up primarily of cash severance payments, and pension
and other postretirement benefit costs noted above were not assigned to
operating segments.  They are included in the reconciliation of total
accountable profit from reportable segments to total profit before
taxes. 

A-85 

Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi
Ltd. (SCM)  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        On August 1, 2008,
SCM completed the first phase of a share redemption plan whereby SCM redeemed
half of MHI's shares in SCM for $464 million.  This resulted in
Caterpillar owning 67 percent of the outstanding shares of SCM and MHI owning
the remaining 33 percent.  As part of the share redemption, SCM was
renamed Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan).  Both Cat Japan and MHI
have options, exercisable after five years, to require the redemption of the
remaining shares owned by MHI, which if exercised, would make Caterpillar the
sole owner of Cat Japan.  The share redemption plan is part of our
comprehensive business strategy for expansion in the emerging markets of Asia
and the Commonwealth of Independent States and will allow Cat Japan's
manufacturing, design and process expertise to be fully leveraged across the
global Caterpillar enterprise. 

The change in
Caterpillar's ownership interest from 50 percent to 67 percent was accounted for
as a business combination.  The $464 million redemption price was
assigned to 17 percent of Cat Japan's assets and liabilities based upon their
respective fair values as of the transaction date.  The revaluation
resulted in an increase in property, plant and equipment of $78 million and an
increase in inventory of $8 million over the book value of these
assets.  Finite-lived intangible assets of $54 million were recognized
and related primarily to customer relationships, intellectual property and trade
names. These intangibles are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a
weighted-average amortization period of approximately 9
years.  Deferred tax liabilities of $57 million were also recognized
as part of the business combination. Goodwill of $206 million, non-deductible
for income tax purposes, represents the excess of the redemption price over the
17 percent of Cat Japan's net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets that
were reported at their fair values. 

Because Cat Japan is
accounted for on a lag, we consolidated Cat Japan's August 1, 2008 financial
position on September 30, 2008.  We began consolidating Cat Japan's
results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2008. Including the amounts
assigned as part of the business combination, the initial consolidation of Cat
Japan's financial position resulted in a net increase in assets of $2,396
million (primarily property, plant and equipment of $1,279 million, inventory of
$640 million, receivables of $612 million, and goodwill and intangibles of $260
million partially offset by a $528 million reduction in investment in
unconsolidated affiliates) and a net increase in liabilities of $2,045 million
(including $1,388 million in debt).  Cat Japan's functional currency
is the Japanese yen. 

The remaining 33
percent of Cat Japan owned by MHI has been reported as redeemable noncontrolling
interest and classified as mezzanine equity (temporary equity) in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. On September 30, 2008, the
redeemable noncontrolling interest was reported at its estimated future
redemption value of $464 million with the difference between the $351 million
book value of the 33 percent interest and the redemption value reported as a
$113 million reduction of Profit employed in the business. 

The redeemable
noncontrolling interest will continue to be reported at its estimated redemption
value.  Any adjustment to the redemption value impacts Profit employed
in the business, but does not impact Profit.  If the fair value of the
redeemable noncontrolling interest falls below the redemption value, profit
available to common stockholders would be reduced by the difference between the
redemption value and the fair value.  This would result in lower
profit in the profit per common share computation in that
period.  Reductions impacting the profit per common share computation
may be partially or fully reversed in subsequent periods if the fair value of
the redeemable noncontrolling interest increases relative to the redemption
value.  Such increases in profit per common share would be limited to
cumulative prior reductions.  During 2009, the estimated redemption
value decreased, resulting in adjustments to the carrying value of the
redeemable noncontrolling interest. Profit employed in the business increased by
$81 million due to these adjustments. There was no change to the estimated
redemption value in 2008.  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair
value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest remained greater than the
estimated redemption value. 

We estimate the fair
value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest using a discounted five year
forecasted cash flow with a year-five residual value.  If worldwide
economic conditions deteriorate and Cat Japan's business forecast is negatively
impacted, it is reasonably possible that the fair value of the redeemable
noncontrolling interest may fall below the estimated redemption value in the
near term.  Should this occur, profit would be reduced in the profit
per common share computation by the difference between the redemption value and
the fair value.  Lower long-term growth rates, reduced long-term
profitability as well as changes in interest rates, costs, pricing, capital
expenditures and general market conditions may reduce the fair value of the
redeemable noncontrolling interest. 

With the
consolidation of Cat Japan's results of operations, 33 percent of Cat Japan's
comprehensive income or loss is attributed to the redeemable noncontrolling
interest, impacting its carrying value.  Because the redeemable
noncontrolling interest must be reported at its estimated future redemption
value, the impact from attributing the comprehensive income or loss is offset by
adjusting the carrying value to the redemption value.  This adjustment
impacts Profit employed in the business, but not Profit.  In 2009 and
2008, the carrying value had decreased by $53 million and $2 million,
respectively, due to Cat Japan's comprehensive loss. This resulted in an
offsetting adjustment of $53 million in 2009 and $2 million in 2008 to increase
the carrying value to the redemption value and a corresponding reduction to
Profit employed in the business.  As Cat Japan's functional currency
is the Japanese yen, changes in exchange rates affect the reported amount of the
redeemable noncontrolling interest.  At December 31, 2009 and 2008,
the redeemable noncontrolling interest was $477 million and $524 million,
respectively. 

A-86 

Cat Japan is
included in the Cat Japan reportable segment.  Assuming this
transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the
consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported
results. 

GLOSSARY  OF
TERMS  

1. 

Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat
      Japan)    A Caterpillar subsidiary formerly known as Shin  Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM).  SCM
      was a 50/50 joint venture between Caterpillar and Mitsubishi Heavy
      Industries Ltd. (MHI) until SCM redeemed one half of MHI's shares on
      August 1, 2008.  Caterpillar now owns 67 percent of the renamed
      entity.  We began consolidating Cat Japan in the fourth quarter
      of 2008.  Cat Japan's redundancy costs are included in total
      redundancy costs.  

2. 

Caterpillar Production System
         The Caterpillar Production System is the common Order-to-Delivery
      process being implemented enterprise-wide to achieve our safety, quality,
      velocity, earnings and growth goals for 2010 and beyond. 

3. 

Consolidating
      Adjustments    Eliminations of transactions between Machinery and
      Engines and Financial Products. 

4. 

Currency     With respect to sales and revenues, currency
      represents the translation impact on sales resulting from changes in
      foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar.  With
      respect to operating profit, currency represents the net translation
      impact on sales and operating costs resulting from changes in foreign
      currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar.  Currency
      includes the impact on sales and operating profit for the Machinery and
      Engines lines of business only; currency impacts on Financial Products
      revenues and operating profit are included in the Financial Products
      portions of the respective analyses.  With respect to other
      income/expense, currency represents the effects of forward and option
      contracts entered into by the company to reduce the risk of fluctuations
      in exchange  rates and the net effect of changes in foreign currency
      exchange rates on our foreign currency assets and liabilities for
      consolidated results. 

5. 

Debt-to-Capital Ratio 
          A key
      measure of financial strength used by both management and our credit
      rating agencies.  The metric is a ratio of Machinery and Engines
      debt (short-term borrowings plus long-term debt) and redeemable
      noncontrolling interest to the sum of Machinery and Engines debt,
      redeemable noncontrolling interest and stockholders' equity. 

6. 

EAME    Geographic region
      including Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of
      Independent States (CIS). 

7. 

Earning Assets    Assets
      consisting primarily of total finance receivables net of unearned income,
      plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation at Cat
      Financial. 

8. 

Engines      A principal line of business including
      the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of engines for Caterpillar
      machinery; electric power generation systems; locomotives; marine,
      petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications
      and related parts. Also includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines
      and a variety of Caterpillar machinery and engine components and
      remanufacturing services for other companies.  Reciprocating
      engines meet power needs ranging from  10 to
      21,800 horsepower (8 to more than 16 000
      kilowatts) .  Turbines range from 1,600 to 30,000
      horsepower (1 200 to 22 000 kilowatts). 

9. 

Financial Products    A
      principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc.
      (Cat Insurance) and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat
      Financial provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and
      dealers for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well
      as other equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also
      extends loans to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides
      various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the
      purchase and lease of our equipment. 

10. 

Integrated Service
      Businesses    A service business or a business containing an
      important service component.  These businesses include, but are
      not limited to, aftermarket parts, Cat Financial, Cat Insurance, Cat
      Logistics, Cat Reman, Progress Rail, OEM Solutions and Solar Turbine
      Customer Services. 

11. 

Latin America   
      Geographic region including Central and South American countries and
      Mexico. 

12. 

LIFO Inventory Decrement
      Benefits     A significant portion of
      Caterpillar's inventory is valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO)
      method.  With this method, the cost of inventory is comprised of
      "layers" at cost levels for years when inventory increases
      occurred.  A LIFO decrement occurs when inventory decreases,
      depleting layers added in earlier, generally lower cost,
      years.  A LIFO decrement benefit represents the impact on profit
      of charging cost of goods sold with prior-year cost levels rather than
      current period costs.  

A-87 

13. 

Machinery    A principal
      line of business which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and
      sales of construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel
      tractors, track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products, skid steer loaders, underground mining equipment, tunnel boring
      equipment and related parts. Also includes logistics services for other
      companies and the design, manufacture, remanufacture, maintenance and
      services of rail-related products. 

14. 

Machinery and Engines
      (M E)    Due to the highly integrated nature of operations, it
      represents the aggregate total of the Machinery and Engines lines of
      business and includes primarily our manufacturing, marketing and parts
      distribution operations. 

15. 

Machinery and Engines Other
      Operating (Income) Expenses    Comprised primarily of gains/losses
      on disposal of long-lived assets, long-lived asset impairment charges and
      employee redundancy costs. 

16. 

Manufacturing Costs   
      Manufacturing costs exclude the impacts of currency and represent the
      volume-adjusted change for variable costs and the absolute dollar change
      for period manufacturing costs.  Variable manufacturing costs
      are defined as having a direct relationship with the volume of
      production.  This includes material costs, direct labor and
      other costs that vary directly with production volume such as freight,
      power to operate machines and supplies that are consumed in the
      manufacturing process.  Period manufacturing costs support
      production but are defined as generally not having a direct relationship
      to short-term changes in volume.  Examples include machinery and
      equipment repair, depreciation on manufacturing assets, facility support,
      procurement, factory scheduling, manufacturing planning and operations
      management. 

17. 

Price Realization    The
      impact of net price changes excluding currency and new product
      introductions.  Consolidated price realization includes the
      impact of changes in the relative weighting of sales between geographic
      regions. 

18. 

Redundancy Costs    Costs
      related to employment reduction including employee severance charges,
      pension and other postretirement benefit plan curtailments and settlements
      and healthcare and supplemental unemployment benefits. 

19. 

Sales Volume    With
      respect to sales and revenues, sales volume represents the impact of
      changes in the quantities sold for machinery and engines as well as the
      incremental revenue impact of new product introductions.  With
      respect to operating profit, sales volume represents the impact of changes
      in the quantities sold for machinery and engines combined with product
      mix the net operating profit impact of changes in the relative weighting
      of machinery and engines sales with respect to total sales. 

20. 

6 Sigma    On a technical
      level, 6 Sigma represents a measure of variation that achieves 3.4 defects
      per million opportunities.  At Caterpillar, 6 Sigma represents a
      much broader cultural philosophy to drive continuous improvement
      throughout the value chain.  It is a fact-based, data-driven
      methodology that we are using to improve processes, enhance quality, cut
      costs, grow our business and deliver greater value to our customers
      through black belt-led project teams.  At Caterpillar, 6 Sigma
      goes beyond mere process improvement it has become the way we work as
      teams to process business information, solve problems and manage our
      business successfully. 

LIQUIDITY  AND
CAPITAL RESOURCES  

We generate
significant capital resources from operating activities, which are the primary
source of funding for our Machinery and Engines operations.  Funding
for these businesses is also provided by commercial paper and long-term debt
issuances.  Financial Products operations are funded primarily from
commercial paper, term debt issuances and collections from their existing
portfolio.  Throughout 2009, we continued to have access to liquidity
in both our Machinery and Engines and Financial Products
operations.  Despite adverse business conditions during most of 2009,
we remained profitable and generated strong cash flow.  Execution of
our strategic trough plans, such as reducing costs, capital expenditures and
inventory levels and suspending Caterpillar stock repurchases, lowered our cash
needs during 2009.  These factors allowed the company to continue to
fund strategic growth initiatives, make pension contributions and maintain the
dividend and our  mid-A  credit rating.  On a consolidated basis, we
ended the year with $4.9 billion of cash, an increase of $2.1 billion from
year-end 2008.  Our cash balances are held in numerous locations
throughout the world.  Most of the amounts held outside the U.S. could
be repatriated to the U.S. but generally would be subject to incremental U.S.
income taxes. 

Consolidated
operating cash flow for 2009 was $6.34 billion, compared with $4.80 billion in
2008.   The global recession has resulted in significant changes
in the components of operating cash flow from 2008 to 2009.  Operating
cash flow in 2009 benefited from significant declines in both receivables and
inventory.  The receivables decline was a result of lower sales in
2009 and the decrease in inventory was a result of aggressive trough actions by
management and declining sales volume.  Offsetting these items was a
significant decrease in accounts payable reflecting significantly lower rates of
material purchases, capital expenditures and costs in 2009 compared with
2008.  In 2008, profit of consolidated and affiliated companies of
$3.59 billion had a positive impact on operating cash flow while the change in
working capital was unfavorable primarily due to higher inventory and
receivables.  See further discussion of operating cash flow under
Machinery and Engines and Financial Products. 

A-88 

Total debt as of
December 31, 2009 was $31.63 billion, a decrease of $3.90 billion from
year-end 2008.  Debt related to Machinery and Engines decreased $1.44
billion in 2009, primarily due to lower short-term borrowings.  Debt
related to Financial Products decreased $2.47 billion reflecting declining
portfolio balances at Cat Financial. 

We have three global
credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $6.99 billion (Credit
Facility 1) available in the aggregate to both Caterpillar and Cat Financial to
support their commercial paper programs in the event those programs become
unavailable and for general liquidity purposes.  Based on management's
allocation decision, which can be revised from time to time, the portion of the
Credit Facility 1 available to Cat Financial as of December 31, 2009 was $5.49
billion. 

We also have a
364-day revolving credit facility (Credit Facility 2) with a syndicate of banks
totaling $1.37 billion, which expires in March 2010 and is jointly available to
both Caterpillar and Cat Financial. 

During
2009, certain of the covenants applicable to Caterpillar or Cat Financial under
Credit Facility 1 and Credit Facility 2 (the Credit Facilities) were
revised.  The revisions, among other things, modified the consolidated
net worth definition for Caterpillar's covenant to exclude pension and other
post-retirement benefits as a part of Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss).  In addition, Cat Financial's interest coverage ratio covenant
was modified to exclude the impact of interest rate derivatives and to calculate
the ratio over a rolling four-quarter period. 

At December 31,
2009, Caterpillar's consolidated net worth was $13.26 billion, which was above
the $9.00 billion required under the Credit Facilities.  The
consolidated net worth is defined as the consolidated stockholder's equity
including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement
benefits balance within Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss). 

At December 31,
2009, Cat Financial's interest coverage ratio was 1.26 to 1.  This is
above the 1.15 to 1 minimum ratio of (1) profit excluding income taxes, interest
expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to (2) interest
expense calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four
quarter period then most recently ended. 

In addition, at
December 31, 2009, Cat Financial's leverage ratio was 6.79 to 1.  This
is below the maximum ratio of debt to net worth of 10 to 1, calculated (1) on a
monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day
of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31
required by the Credit Facilities. 

In the event
Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet one or more of their respective
financial covenants under the Credit Facilities in the future (and are unable to
obtain a consent or waiver), the bank group may terminate the commitments
allocated to the parties.  Additionally, in such event, certain of Cat
Financial's other lenders under other loan agreements where such financial
covenants are applicable, may, at their election, choose to pursue remedies
under such loan agreements, including accelerating outstanding
borrowings.  At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings under the
Credit Facilities. 

Our total credit
commitments as of December 31, 2009 were: 

Other consolidated
credit lines with banks as of December 31, 2009 total $4.73 billion. These
credit lines, which are eligible for renewal at various future dates or have no
specified expiration date, are used primarily by our subsidiaries for local
funding requirements.  Caterpillar or Cat Financial generally
guarantees subsidiary borrowings under these lines. 

A-89 

Uncertain economic
conditions present the risk that one or more of the credit rating agencies may
decrease their credit rating for Caterpillar, Cat Financial or their debt
securities.  In the event that Caterpillar or Cat Financial, or any of
their debt securities, experiences a credit rating downgrade it would likely
result in an increase in our borrowing costs and make access to certain credit
markets more difficult. 

While we expect
global economic conditions to improve in 2010, in the event they deteriorate
from current levels or access to debt markets becomes unavailable, our Machinery
and Engines operations would rely on cash flow from operations, use of existing
cash balances, borrowings from Cat Financial and access to our Credit
Facilities.   Our Financial Products
operations would rely on cash flow from its existing portfolio, utilization of
existing cash balances, access to our Credit Facilities and other credit line
facilities held by Cat Financial and potential borrowings from
Caterpillar.  In addition, Caterpillar maintains a support agreement
with Cat Financial, which requires Caterpillar to remain the sole owner of Cat
Financial and may, under certain circumstances, require Caterpillar to make
payments to Cat Financial should Cat Financial fail to maintain certain
financial ratios.  

Machinery
and Engines 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Net cash provided by
operating activities was $2.99 billion in 2009 compared to cash provided by
operating activities of $3.57 billion in 2008.  The change was due to
a significant decline in profit largely offset by favorable changes in working
capital.  Current year profit of consolidated and affiliated companies
was $811 million while profit of consolidated and affiliated companies was $3.57
billion a year ago.  In 2009, the significant decline in inventory and
receivables more than offset a decrease in accounts payable and other working
capital items resulting in a favorable impact on operating cash
flow.  In 2008, the benefit from profit of consolidated and affiliated
companies was offset by an increase in working capital, primarily
inventory.  Net cash used for investing activities in 2009 was $680
million compared to $2.56 billion used for investing activities in
2008.  The change was primarily due to a $1.08 billion reduction in
capital expenditures and higher proceeds from intercompany loans in
2009.  Net cash used for financing activities in 2009 was $1.58
billion compared with cash used for financing activities of $529 million during
the same period a year ago.  During 2009, proceeds from loans with Cat
Financial of $963 million were offset by payments on short and long-term
borrowings and dividend payments of $1.03 billion.  During 2008, there
were $1.8 billion of payments for Caterpillar stock repurchases and dividend
payments of $953 million, partially offset by short and long-term debt
issuances. Given the current economic conditions, we have suspended our stock
repurchase program. 

Our priorities for
the use of cash are a strong financial position that helps protect our credit
rating, capital to support growth, appropriately funded employee benefit plans,
paying dividends and common stock repurchases with excess cash. 

Strong
      financial position  
         A key measure of Machinery and Engines financial strength used by
      both management and our credit rating agencies is Machinery and Engines'
      debt-to-capital ratio. Debt-to-capital is defined as short-term
      borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, redeemable noncontrolling
      interest and long-term debt due after one year (debt) divided by the sum
      of debt (including redeemable noncontrolling interest) and stockholders'
      equity.  Debt also includes borrowings from Financial
      Products.  The debt-to-capital ratio for Machinery and Engines
      was 47.2 percent at December 31, 2009 compared to 57.5 percent at December
      31, 2008, above our target range of 35 to 45 percent.  A $1.0
      billion after-tax benefit to Accumulated other comprehensive income(loss)
      to recognize the change in funded status of our pension and other
      postretirement benefit plans during the fourth quarter decreased the
      debt-to-capital ratio 3 percentage points.  Profit, the company
      stock contribution to our pension plans (discussed below), and lower debt
      levels also contributed to the reduction.  In addition to the
      debt-to-capital ratios, certain rating agencies have increased their focus
      on the extent to which Caterpillar and Cat Financial have cash and cash
      equivalents and unused credit lines available to meet short-term debt
      requirements.  Caterpillar and Cat Financial have been taking
      this focus into account when planning for liquidity needs.  This
      focus has resulted in higher cash balances and corresponding increases in
      the net cost of funds for Caterpillar and Cat Financial. 

Capital
      to support growth  
         Capital expenditures during 2009 were $1.34 billion, a decrease
      of $1.08 billion compared to 2008.  The expenditures were
      primarily used to complete in-flight projects and start only the highest
      priority new projects such as Tier 4 emissions, expanding our
      manufacturing presence in China and other strategically important
      investments.  We expect capital expenditures to be about $1.6
      billion in 2010, an increase of nearly 20 percent from 2009. 

Appropriately
      funded employee benefit plans      At the end of 2009,
      our defined benefit pension plans were 76-percent funded, up from 61
      percent at the end of 2008.  We made contributions of $1.1
      billion to those plans during 2009.  To provide the company with
      greater financial flexibility, we funded a portion of the contribution
      with company stock.  In May 2009, 18.2 million shares of company
      stock were contributed to U.S. pension plans.  This equated to a
      contribution of approximately $650 million.  Strong asset
      returns, including the appreciation of Caterpillar stock, contributed to
      the increase in funded status.  We expect to make approximately
      $1 billion in contributions during 2010.  In addition, beginning
      in June 2009, the company began funding the 401(k) match with company
      stock.  This equated to a contribution of $68 million (1.4
      million shares) for the year. 

A-90 

Paying
      dividends    
       Dividends paid totaled $1.03 billion in 2009, representing 42 cents
      per share in each quarter.  2009 marks the sixteenth consecutive
      year our annual dividend per share has increased.  Each quarter,
      our Board of Directors reviews the company's dividend and determines
      whether to increase, maintain or decrease the dividend for the applicable
      quarter.  The Board evaluates the financial condition of the
      company and considers the economic outlook, corporate cash flow, the
      company's liquidity needs, and the health and stability of global credit
      markets to determine whether to maintain or change the quarterly
      dividend. 

Common
      stock repurchases  
         Pursuant to the February 2007 Board-authorized stock repurchase
      program, which expires on December 31, 2011, $3.8 billion of the $7.5
      billion authorized has been spent through December 31, 2009.  As
      a result of current economic conditions, we have suspended our stock
      repurchase program.  Basic shares outstanding as of December 31,
      2009 were 625 million. 

Financial
Products 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Financial Products
operating cash flow of $1.10 billion was about the same as 2008.  Net
cash provided by investing activities in 2009 was $3.37 billion, compared to a
use of cash of $3.75 billion in 2008. This change is the result of lower levels
of new retail financing at Cat Financial, partially offset by lower collections.
Net cash used for financing activities in 2009 was $3.08 billion, compared to a
source of cash of $3.62 billion in 2008, primarily due to lower funding
requirements. 

During the fourth
quarter of 2009, overall portfolio quality continued to reflect signs of stress
related to general economic conditions.  At year-end 2009, past dues
were slightly lower at 5.54 percent compared with 5.79 percent at the end of the
third quarter.  At year-end 2008, past dues were 3.88
percent.  We expect there will be continued pressure on past dues
during the first half of 2010, with gradual improvement as the global economy
improves in the second half of the year.  In 2009, Cat Financial
continued its prudent portfolio management practices which include conservative
underwriting, heightened collection activities and contract modifications where
appropriate.  Such contract modifications may involve Cat Financial
receiving credit enhancements and are done to help maximize Cat Financial
results as well as help customers manage through difficult economic
times. 

Bad debt write-offs,
net of recoveries, were $86 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, up from $65
million in the third quarter of 2009 and $60 million in the fourth quarter of
2008.  Total bad debt write-offs were $253 million in 2009 compared to
$121 million in 2008.  The $132 million year-over-year increase was
driven by adverse economic conditions, primarily in North America, and to a
lesser extent in Europe. 

Full-year 2009
losses were 1.03 percent of the average retail portfolio compared to 0.48
percent for 2008.   This result was higher in comparison to the
peak of 0.69 percent reached in the most recent periods of economic weakness in
2001 and 2002. 

At the end of 2009,
Cat Financial's allowance for credit losses was 1.64 percent of net finance
receivables, increasing from 1.44 percent on December 31, 2008.  The
allowance for credit losses totaled $377 million compared with $395 million on
December 31, 2008.  The allowance for credit losses reflected a $64
million decrease due to a reduction in the overall net finance receivable
portfolio, partially offset by a $46 million increase associated with the higher
allowance rate. 

Cat Financial has
been able to access ample liquidity to cover all maturing debt obligations
utilizing a broad and diverse global funding program.  Cat Financial s
global funding strategy helps reduce foreign currency exchange risk by matching
locally denominated funding with portfolio receivables.  For the
full-year 2009, Cat Financial issued $3.4 billion in U.S. medium-term notes,
$690 million in U.S. retail notes,  650 million in euro medium-term notes, C$500
million in Canadian dollar medium-term notes,  14.4 billion in Japanese yen
medium-term notes, A$250 million in Australian dollar medium-term notes and ARS
61.8 million in Argentine peso medium-term notes.  Year-end 2009
commercial paper outstanding totaled $2.2 billion.  Proceeds from Cat
Financial's 2009 debt issuance, combined with year-to-date cash receipts,
covered all 2009 debt maturities and generated a cash balance of $2.5 billion at
the end of the fourth quarter of 2009.  Our resulting liquidity
position remains strong.  Cat Financial's 2010 long-term debt
maturities are approximately $5.4 billion, of which a portion will be funded by
current cash balances and projected cash receipts.  Cat Financial will
remain selective and opportunistic in issuing new term debt in
2010. 

To maintain an
alternative funding source, Cat Financial periodically sells certain finance
receivables relating to retail installment sale contracts and finance leases to
special purpose entities (SPEs) as part of Cat Financial's securitization
program.  The SPEs have limited purposes and generally are only
permitted to purchase the finance receivables, issue asset-backed securities and
make payments on the securities.  The SPEs only issue a single series
of securities and generally are dissolved when those securities have been paid
in full.  The SPEs, typically trusts, are considered to be qualifying
special-purpose entities (QSPEs) and are not consolidated.  The QSPEs
issue debt to pay for the finance receivables they acquire from Cat
Financial.  The primary source for repayment of the debt is the cash
flows generated from the finance receivables owned by the QSPEs.  The
assets of the QSPEs are legally isolated and are not available to pay Cat
Financial's creditors.  Cat Financial uses QSPEs in a manner
consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry to isolate
these finance receivables, which are secured by new and used equipment, for the
benefit of securitization investors. 

A-91 

The use of the QSPEs
enables Cat Financial to access the U.S. securitization market for the sale of
these types of financial assets.  The amounts of funding from
securitizations reflect such factors as capital market accessibility, relative
costs of funding sources and assets available for securitization.  In
2008, Cat Financial had cash proceeds from initial sales of receivables of $600
million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $12 million.  The fair value
of the retained interests in all securitizations of retail finance receivables
outstanding, totaling $102 million and $52 million as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively, are included in Other assets.  Cat Financial's
sensitivity analysis indicated that the impact of a 20 percent adverse change in
individual assumptions used to calculate the fair value of all retained
interests as of December 31, 2009 would be $11 million or less. 

Contractual
obligations 

1  

Amounts
      represent expected contributions to our pension and other postretirement
      benefit plans through 2019, offset by expected Medicare Part D
      subsidy receipts. 

2  

Amount
      represents invoices received and recorded as liabilities in 2009, but
      scheduled for payment in 2010. These represent short-term obligations made
      in the ordinary course of business. 

3  

Amount
      represents contractual obligations for material and services on order at
      December 31, 2009 but not yet delivered. These represent short-term
      obligations made in the ordinary course of business. 

4  

Amounts
      represent long-term commitments entered into with key suppliers for
      minimum purchases quantities. 

5  

Amounts
      represent estimated contractual interest payments on long-term debt,
      including capital lease interest payments. 

6  

Amounts
      represent contractual obligations primarily related to software license
      contracts, IT consulting contracts and outsourcing contracts for benefit
      plan administration and software system
support. 

We adopted the
      accounting guidance on uncertainty in income taxes as of January 1,
      2007.  The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for
      uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting only the timing of
      tax benefits, was $761 million at December 31, 2009.  Payment of
      these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities.
      Due to the difficulty in determining the timing of settlements, these
      obligations are not included in the table above.  We do not
      expect a significant tax payment related to these obligations within the
      next year. 

A-92 

CRITICAL 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported
amounts. The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased
assets, fair values for goodwill impairment tests, impairment of
available-for-sale securities, warranty liability, stock-based compensation,
reserves for product liability and insurance losses, postretirement benefits,
post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes. We have incorporated many
years of data into the determination of each of these estimates and we have not
historically experienced significant adjustments. These assumptions are reviewed
at least annually with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Following
are the methods and assumptions used in determining our estimates and an
indication of the risks inherent in each. 

Residual values for leased assets
   The residual values for Cat Financial's leased assets, which are based
upon the estimated wholesale market value of leased equipment at the time of the
expiration of the lease, are based on a careful analysis of historical wholesale
market sales prices, projected forward on a level trend line without
consideration for inflation or possible future pricing action.  At the
inception of the lease, residual values are derived from consideration of the
following critical factors: market size and demand, any known significant
market/product trends, total expected hours of usage, machine configuration,
application, location, model changes, quantities and past re-marketing
experience, third-party residual guarantees and contractual customer purchase
options.  During the term of the leases, residual amounts are
monitored.  If estimated market values reflect a non-temporary
impairment due to economic factors, obsolescence or other adverse circumstances,
the residuals are adjusted to the lower estimated values by a charge to
earnings.  For equipment on operating leases, the charge is recognized
through depreciation expense.  For finance leases, it is recognized
through a reduction of finance revenue. 

Fair values for goodwill impairment
tests    We test goodwill for impairment annually, at the reporting unit
level, and whenever events or circumstances make it likely that an impairment
may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate
or a decision to sell all or a portion of a reporting unit.  We
perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for
interim triggering events on an ongoing basis. 

Goodwill is reviewed
for impairment utilizing a two-step process.  The first step requires
us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit to the respective carrying
value, which includes goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting
unit exceeds its carrying value, the goodwill is not considered
impaired.  If the carrying value is greater than the fair value, there
is an indication that an impairment may exist and the second step is
required.  In step two, the implied fair value of the goodwill is
calculated as the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the fair
values assigned to its assets and liabilities.  If the implied fair
value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit's
goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment loss. 

The impairment test
process requires valuation of the respective reporting unit, which we primarily
determine using an income approach based on a discounted five year forecasted
cash flow with a year-five residual value. The residual value is computed using
the constant growth method, which values the forecasted cash flows in
perpetuity. The income approach is supported by a reconciliation of our
calculated fair value for Caterpillar to the company's market capitalization.
The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on each
reporting unit's long-term forecast and are subject to review and approval by
senior management. The discount rate is based on our weighted average cost of
capital, which we believe approximates the rate from a market participant's
perspective. The estimated fair value could be impacted by changes in market
conditions, interest rates, growth rates, tax rates, costs, pricing and capital
expenditures. 

The 2009 annual
impairment test, completed in the fourth quarter, indicated the fair value of
each of our reporting units was above its respective carrying value,
including goodwill, with the exception of our Forest Products reporting unit.
   Because the
carrying value of Forest Products exceeded its fair value, step two in the
impairment test process was required.  We allocated the fair value to
the unit's assets and liabilities and determined the implied fair value of the
goodwill was insignificant.  Accordingly, we recognized a $22 million
non-cash goodwill impairment charge for Forest Products' entire goodwill
amount.  The primary factor contributing to the impairment was the
historic decline in demand for purpose built forest product machines caused by
the significant reduction in U.S. housing construction, lower prices for pulp,
paper and wood product commodities, and reduced capital availability in the
forest products industry.  The fair values for all other reporting
units were well above their respective carrying values at the measurement
date.  Additionally, Caterpillar's market capitalization has remained
significantly above the net book value of the company. 

A prolonged economic
downturn resulting in lower long-term growth rates and reduced long-term
profitability may reduce the fair value of our reporting units. Industry
specific events or circumstances that have a negative impact to the valuation
assumptions may also reduce the fair value of our reporting
units.  Should such events occur and it becomes more likely than not
that a reporting unit's fair value has fallen below its carrying value, we will
perform an interim goodwill impairment test(s), in addition to the annual
impairment test.  Future impairment tests may result in a goodwill
impairment, depending on the outcome of both step one and step two of the
impairment review process.  A goodwill impairment would be reported as
a non-cash charge to earnings. 

A-93 

Impairment of available-for-sale
securities      Available-for-sale
securities, primarily at Cat Insurance, are reviewed at least quarterly to
identify fair values below cost which may indicate that a security is impaired
and should be written down to fair value. 

For debt securities,
once a security's fair value is below cost we utilize data gathered by
investment managers, external sources and internal research to monitor the
performance of the security to determine whether an other-than-temporary
impairment has occurred.  These reviews, which include an analysis of
whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security
before its anticipated recovery, consist of both quantitative and qualitative
analysis and require a degree of management judgment.  Securities in a
loss position are monitored and assessed at least quarterly based on severity of
loss and may be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at any
time.  Once a security's fair value has been twenty percent or more
below its original cost for six consecutive months, the security will be
other-than-temporarily impaired unless there are sufficient facts and
circumstances supporting otherwise. 

For equity
securities in a loss position, determining whether the security is
other-than-temporarily impaired requires an analysis of the securities'
historical sector returns and volatility. This information is utilized to
estimate the security's future fair value to assess whether the security has the
ability to recover to its original cost over a reasonable period of time as
follows: 

Historical
      annualized sector returns over a two-year period are analyzed to estimate
      the security's fair value over the next two years. 

The volatility
      factor for the security is applied to the sector historical returns to
      further estimate the fair value of the security over the next two
      years. 

In the event the
estimated future fair value is less than the original cost, qualitative factors
are then considered in determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily
impaired, which includes reviews of the following:  significant
changes in the regulatory, economic or technological environment of the
investee, significant changes in the general market condition of either the
geographic area or the industry in which the investee operates, and length of
time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than
cost.  These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree
of management judgment. 

Warranty liability    At the
time a sale is recognized, we record estimated future warranty
costs.  The warranty liability is determined by applying historical
claim rate experience to the current field population and dealer
inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on actual
warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine
size.  Specific rates are developed for each product build month and
are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim
experience.  Warranty costs may differ from those estimated if actual
claim rates are higher or lower than our historical rates. 

Stock-based compensation    We
use a lattice-based option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of our
stock options and SARs.  The calculation of the fair value of the
awards using the lattice-based option-pricing model is affected by our stock
price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding the
following: 

Volatility is
      a measure of the amount by which the stock price is expected to fluctuate
      each year during the expected term of the award and is based on historical
      and current implied volatilities from traded options on Caterpillar stock.
      The implied volatilities from traded options are impacted by changes in
      market conditions.  An increase in the volatility would result
      in an increase in our expense. 

The expected
      term represents the period of time that awards granted are expected to be
      outstanding and is an output of the lattice-based option-pricing model. In
      determining the expected term of the award, future exercise and forfeiture
      patterns are estimated from Caterpillar employee historical exercise
      behavior.  These patterns are also affected by the vesting
      conditions of the award.  Changes in the future exercise
      behavior of employees or in the vesting period of the award could result
      in a change in the expected term.  An increase in the expected
      term would result in an increase to our expense. 

The
      weighted-average dividend yield is based on Caterpillar's historical
      dividend yields.  As holders of stock-based awards do not
      receive dividend payments, this could result in employees retaining the
      award for a longer period of time if dividend yields decrease or
      exercising the award sooner if dividend yields increase.  A
      decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our
      expense. 

The risk-free
      interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at time
      of grant.  As the risk-free interest rate increases, the
      expected term increases, resulting in an increase in our
      expense. 

The fair value of
our RSUs is determined by reducing the stock price on the date of grant by the
present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting period.
The estimated dividends are based on Caterpillar's weighted-average dividend
yields. A decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our
expense. 

Stock-based
compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the
number of awards that are expected to vest.  In determining the
stock-based compensation expense to be recognized, a forfeiture rate is applied
to the fair value of the award.   This rate represents the number of
awards that are expected to be forfeited prior to vesting and is based on
Caterpillar employee historical behavior.  Changes in the future
behavior of employees could impact this rate.  A decrease in this rate
would result in an increase in our expense. 

A-94 

Product liability and insurance loss
reserve    We determine these reserves based upon reported claims in
process of settlement and actuarial estimates for losses incurred but not
reported. Loss reserves, including incurred but not reported reserves, are based
on estimates and ultimate settlements may vary significantly from such estimates
due to increased claims frequency or severity over historical
levels. 

Postretirement benefits   
Primary actuarial assumptions were determined as follows: 

The U.S.
      expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate
      of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities
      weighted by the allocation of our plan assets. Based on historical
      performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management
      of the plan assets. A similar process is used to determine the rate for
      our non-U.S. pension plans. This rate is impacted by changes in general
      market conditions, but because it represents a long-term rate, it is not
      significantly impacted by short-term market swings. Changes in our
      allocation of plan assets would also impact this rate. For example, a
      shift to more fixed income securities would lower the rate. A decrease in
      the rate would increase our expense. 

The assumed
      discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to
      today's dollars.  The U.S. discount rate is based on a benefit
      cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our benefit
      obligations could effectively be settled as of our measurement date,
      December 31.  The benefit cash flow-matching approach involves
      analyzing Caterpillar's projected cash flows against a high quality bond
      yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate Aa bonds
      available on the measurement date.  The very highest and lowest
      yielding bonds (top and bottom 10%) are excluded from the
      analysis.  Prior to 2008, we used the Moody's Aa bond yield as
      of our measurement date, November 30, and validated the discount rate
      using the benefit cash flow-matching approach.  A similar change
      was made to determine the assumed discount rate for our most significant
      non-U.S. plans. This rate is sensitive to changes in interest rates. A
      decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation and future
      expense. 

The expected
      rate of compensation increase is used to develop benefit obligations using
      projected pay at retirement. It represents average long-term salary
      increases. This rate is influenced by our long-term compensation policies.
      An increase in the rate would increase our obligation and
      expense. 

The assumed
      health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are
      assumed to increase and is based on historical and expected experience.
      Changes in our projections of future health care costs due to general
      economic conditions and those specific to health care (e.g., technology
      driven cost changes) will impact this trend rate. An increase in the trend
      rate would increase our obligation and
expense. 

Post-sale discount reserve   
We provide discounts to dealers through merchandising programs.  We
have numerous programs that are designed to promote the sale of our
products.  The most common dealer programs provide a discount when the
dealer sells a product to a targeted end user.  The amount of accrued
post-sale discounts was $662 million, $828 million and $669 million as of
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The reserve
represents discounts that we expect to pay on previously sold units and is
reviewed at least quarterly.  The reserve is adjusted if discounts
paid differ from those estimated.  Historically, those adjustments
have not been material. 

Credit loss reserve   
Management's ongoing evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit
losses considers both impaired and unimpaired finance receivables and takes into
consideration past loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio,
adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay, estimated
value of underlying collateral and current economic conditions. In estimating
probable losses we review accounts that are past due, non-performing, in
bankruptcy or otherwise identified as at risk for potential credit loss.
Accounts are identified as at risk for potential credit loss using information
available about the customer, such as financial statements, news reports and
published credit ratings as well as general information regarding industry
trends and the general economic environment. 

The allowance for
credit losses attributable to specific accounts is based on the most probable
source of repayment, which is normally the liquidation of collateral. In
determining collateral value we estimate current fair value of collateral and
factor in credit enhancements such as additional collateral and third-party
guarantees. The allowance for credit losses attributable to the remaining
accounts is a general allowance based upon the risk in the portfolio, primarily
using probabilities of default and an estimate of associated losses. In
addition, qualitative factors not able to be fully captured in previous analysis
including industry trends, macroeconomic factors and model imprecision are
considered in the evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses.
These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management
judgment. 

While management
believes it has exercised prudent judgment and applied reasonable assumptions,
there can be no assurance that in the future, changes in economic conditions or
other factors would not cause changes in the financial health of our customers.
If the financial health of our customer deteriorates, the timing and level of
payments received could be impacted and therefore, could result in a change to
our estimated losses. 

A-95 

Income tax reserve    We are
subject to the income tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we
operate.  These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they
apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation.  In
establishing the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the
application of these inherently complex tax laws. 

Despite our belief
that our tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax laws, we
believe that taxing authorities could challenge certain positions. Settlement of
any challenge can result in no change, a complete disallowance, or some partial
adjustment reached through negotiations or litigation. We record tax benefits
for uncertain tax positions based upon management's evaluation of the
information available at the reporting date.  To be recognized in the
financial statements, a tax benefit must be at least more likely than not of
being sustained based on technical merits.  The benefit for positions
meeting the recognition threshold is measured as the largest benefit more likely
than not of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that
has full knowledge of all relevant information.  Significant judgment
is required in making these determinations and adjustments to unrecognized tax
benefits may be necessary to reflect actual taxes payable upon
settlement.  Adjustments related to positions impacting the effective
tax rate affect the provision for income taxes.  Adjustments related
to positions impacting the timing of deductions impact deferred tax assets and
liabilities. 

Our income tax
positions and analysis are based on currently enacted tax law.  Future
changes in tax law could significantly impact the provision for income taxes,
the amount of taxes payable, and the deferred tax asset and liability
balances.  Deferred tax assets generally represent tax benefits for
tax deductions or credits available in future tax returns.  Certain
estimates and assumptions are required to determine whether it is more likely
than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax asset will
not be realized.  In making this assessment, management analyzes and
estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences
and available prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.  Should a
change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate
realizability of a deferred tax asset, we record or adjust the related valuation
allowance in the period that the change in facts and circumstances occurs, along
with a corresponding increase or decrease in the provision for income
taxes. 

A provision for U.S.
income taxes has not been recorded on undistributed profits of our non-U.S.
subsidiaries that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the
U.S.  If management intentions or U.S. tax law changes in the future,
there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes in
the period the change occurs. 

EMPLOYMENT    

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Caterpillar's
worldwide employment was 93,813 at the end of 2009, down 19,074 from a year
ago.  Since late 2008, we have taken a variety of steps to bring our
workforce in line with demand.  This includes full-time Caterpillar
employees who have been laid off or separated and those who have taken advantage
of incentive-based voluntary plans offered by the company.  In
addition, we have long utilized a flexible workforce made up of
part-time/temporary, contract and agency workers to better respond to shifts in
demand.  These workers are not included in our full-time
employment.  Since late 2008, we have reduced this flexible workforce
by about 18,000.  Looking forward, we will adjust our workforce as
production levels and resource requirements change.  We expect the
recovery and demand for jobs to vary depending on specific regions of the world,
industry and product. 

A-96 

OTHER
MATTERS   

ENVIRONMENTAL
AND LEGAL MATTERS 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The company is
regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our
use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition
to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the
development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance
with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines.
Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital
expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in
remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies,
pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is probable we will pay
remedial costs at a site and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs
are charged against our earnings.  In formulating that estimate, we do
not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or
others.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not
material and is included in Accrued expenses in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position. 

We cannot reasonably
estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of
remediation.  Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages
of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount
for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the
aggregate, will be required. 

We have disclosed
certain individual legal proceedings in this filing.  Additionally, we
are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course
of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve disputes
related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including
claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues or
intellectual property rights.  Although it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe that
these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
liquidity.  

On May 14, 2007, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of Violation to
Caterpillar Inc., alleging various violations of Clean Air Act Sections 203, 206
and 207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar violated such sections by
shipping engines and catalytic converter after-treatment devices separately,
introducing into commerce a number of uncertified and/or misbuilt engines, and
failing to timely report emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is
currently engaging in negotiations with EPA to resolve these issues, but it is
too early in the process to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and, based
upon initial discussions, and although penalties could potentially exceed
$100,000, management does not believe that this issue will have a material
adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
liquidity. 

On February 8, 2009,
an incident at Caterpillar's Joliet, Illinois facility resulted in the release
of approximately 3,000 gallons of wastewater into the Des Plaines
River.  In coordination with state and federal authorities,
appropriate remediation measures have been taken.  On February 23,
2009 the Illinois Attorney General filed a Complaint in Will County Circuit
Court containing seven counts of violations of state environmental laws and
regulations.  Each count seeks injunctive relief, as well as statutory
penalties of $50,000 per violation and $10,000 per day of
violation.  In addition, on March 5, 2009 the EPA served Caterpillar
with a Notice of Intent to file a Civil Administrative Action (notice),
indicating the EPA's intent to seek civil penalties for violations of the Clean
Water Act and Oil Pollution Act.  On January 25, 2010, the EPA issued
a revised notice seeking civil penalties in the amount of $167,800, and
Caterpillar is preparing a response to the revised notice.   At
this time, we do not believe these proceedings will have a material adverse
impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
liquidity. 

RETIREMENT
BENEFITS 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In September 2006,
the FASB issued guidance on employers' accounting for defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans, which requires the recognition of the overfunded
or underfunded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the
balance sheet.  Also, the measurement date   the date at which the
benefit obligation and plan assets are measured   is required to be the
company's fiscal year-end. We adopted the balance sheet recognition provisions
at December 31, 2006, and adopted the year-end measurement date effective
January 1, 2008 using the one measurement approach.  Under the one
measurement approach, net periodic benefit cost for the period between any early
measurement date and the end of the fiscal year that the measurement provisions
are applied is allocated proportionately between amounts to be recognized as an
adjustment of Profit employed in the business and net periodic benefit cost for
the fiscal year.  Previously, we used a November 30 th 
measurement date for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans and
September 30 th  for
our non-U.S. plans.  The adoption of the year-end measurement date
provisions of this guidance increased January 1, 2008 assets by $8 million,
increased liabilities by $24 million and reduced stockholders' equity by $16
million.  The adoption of this guidance did not impact our results of
operations. 

A-97 

We recognized
pension expense of $620 million in 2009 as compared to $200 million in
2008. The increase in expense was primarily the result of increased amortization
of net actuarial losses due to significant asset losses in 2008 and lower
expected return on plan assets in 2009.  In addition, 2009 pension
expense included $169 million of curtailment, settlement and special termination
benefit costs due to voluntary and involuntary separation programs (discussed
below).  Accounting guidance on retirement benefits requires companies
to discount future benefit obligations back to today's dollars using a discount
rate that is based on high-quality fixed-income investments. A decrease in the
discount rate increases the pension benefit obligation, while an increase in the
discount rate decreases the pension benefit obligation.  This increase
or decrease in the pension benefit obligation is recognized in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently amortized into earnings as an
actuarial gain or loss.  The guidance also requires companies to use
an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for computing current year
pension expense.  Differences between the actual and expected asset
returns are also recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
subsequently amortized into earnings as actuarial gains and losses. At the end
of 2009, total actuarial losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) were $6.33 billion, as compared to $7.74 billion in
2008. The majority of the actuarial losses are due to significant asset losses
during 2008 in addition to losses from other demographic and economic
assumptions over the past several years.  The $1.41 billion decrease
from 2008 to 2009 was primarily the result of asset gains during 2009, partially
offset by a decrease in the discount rate. 

In 2009, we
recognized other postretirement benefit expense of $277 million compared to
$287 million in 2008. The decrease in expense was primarily the result of
amendments to our U.S. support and management other postretirement benefit plan,
partially offset by $56 million of curtailment losses due to voluntary and
involuntary separation programs (both discussed below).  Actuarial
losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for other
postretirement benefit plans were $659 million at the end of 2009. These
losses mainly reflect several years of declining discount rates and significant
asset losses during 2008, partially offset by gains from lower than expected
health care costs. The losses were $222 million lower at the end of 2009 as
compared to 2008 due to asset gains and lower than expected health care costs
during 2009, partially offset by a decrease in the discount rate. 

Actuarial losses for
both pensions and other postretirement benefits will be impacted in future
periods by actual asset returns, actual health care inflation, discount rate
changes, actual demographic experience and other factors that impact these
expenses. These losses, reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss), will be amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost on a
straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active
employees expected to receive benefits under the benefit plans. At the end of
2009, the average remaining service period of active employees was 11 years
for our U.S. pension plans, 11 years for our non-U.S. pension plans and
7 years for other postretirement benefit plans. We expect our amortization
of net actuarial losses to increase approximately $150 million in 2010 as
compared to 2009, primarily due to asset losses during 2008 and a decrease in
the discount rate during 2009.  We expect our total pension and other
postretirement benefits expense to increase approximately $150 million in 2010,
excluding the impact of 2009 curtailment, settlement and special termination
benefit costs. 

During 2009,
voluntary and involuntary separation programs impacted employees participating
in certain U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit
plans.  Due to the significance of these events, certain plans were
re-measured as of January 31, 2009, March 31, 2009 and December 31,
2009.  Re-measurements for U.S. separation programs resulted in
curtailment losses of $127 million to pension and $55 million to other
postretirement benefit plans.  Special termination benefits of $6
million were also recognized for a U.S. pension early retirement
program.  Re-measurements for non-U.S. separation programs resulted in
pension settlement losses of $34 million, special termination benefits of $2
million to pension and curtailment losses of $1 million to other postretirement
benefit plans. 

In March 2009, we
amended our U.S. support and management other postretirement benefit
plan.  Beginning in 2010, certain retirees age 65 and older will
enroll in individual health plans that work with Medicare and will no longer
participate in a Caterpillar-sponsored group health plan.  Instead,
the retirees will be in individual health plans that work with Medicare, such as
Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement plans.  In addition,
Caterpillar will fund a tax-advantaged Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) to
assist the retirees with medical expenses.  The plan amendment
required a plan re-measurement as of March 31, 2009, which resulted in a
decrease in our Liability for postretirement benefits of $432 million and an
increase in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $272 million
after-tax.  The plan was further amended in December 2009 to define
the HRA benefit that active employees will receive once they are retired and
reach age 65.  The plan was re-measured at year-end and the December
amendment resulted in a decrease in our Liability for postretirement benefits of
$101 million and an increase in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of
$64 million after-tax.  These decreases will be amortized into
earnings on a straight-line basis over approximately 7 years, the average
remaining service period of active employees in the plan.  The March
2009 amendment reduced other postretirement benefits expense by approximately
$60 million for 2009. 

A-98 

For our U.S. pension
plans, our year-end 2009 asset allocation was 72 percent equity securities,
24 percent debt securities and 4 percent other.  The target
allocation for 2010 is 70 percent equity securities, 25 percent debt
securities and 5 percent real estate. The year-end 2009 asset allocation for our
non-U.S. pension plans was 51 percent equity securities, 33 percent
debt securities, 5 percent real estate and 11 percent other. The 2010
target allocation for our non-U.S. pension plans is 55 percent equity
securities, 35 percent debt securities, 6 percent real estate and
4 percent other. Our target asset allocations reflect our investment
strategy of maximizing the rate of return on plan assets and the resulting
funded status, within an appropriate level of risk. The U.S. plans are
rebalanced to plus or minus five percentage points of the target asset
allocation ranges on a monthly basis. The frequency of rebalancing for the
non-U.S. plans varies depending on the plan. 

The use of certain
derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and necessary for
achieving overall investment policy objectives.  The U.S. plans
utilize futures contracts to offset current equity positions in order to
rebalance the total portfolio to the target asset allocation.  During
2008 and 2007, approximately 5% and 10% of the U.S. pension plans' assets were
rebalanced from equity to fixed income positions through the use of futures
contracts. The plans do not engage in futures contracts for speculative
purposes. 

During 2009, we made
contributions of $886 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans,
including a voluntary contribution of 18.2 million shares ($650 million) in
Caterpillar stock, held as treasury stock.  Cash contributions of
$263 million were made to our non-U.S. pension plans.  We expect
to make approximately $1 billion of contributions during 2010, most of
which are voluntary. We have adequate liquidity resources to fund both U.S. and
non-U.S. pension plans. 

Actuarial
assumptions have a significant impact on both pension and other postretirement
benefit expenses. The effects of a one percentage point change in our primary
actuarial assumptions on 2009 benefit costs and year-end obligations are
included in the table below. 

Postretirement
      Benefit Plan Actuarial Assumptions Sensitivity 

Following are
      the effects of a one percentage-point change in our primary pension and
      other postretirement benefit actuarial assumptions (included in the
      following table) on 2009 pension and other postretirement benefits costs
      and obligations: 

2009
      Benefit Cost 

Year-end
      Benefit Obligation 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            point
      increase 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            point
      decrease 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            point
      increase 

One
      percentage- 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            point
      decrease 

Pension
      benefits: 

Assumed
      discount rate   

$ 

(155 

) 

$ 

163 

$ 

(1,712 

) 

$ 

1,942 

Expected rate
      of compensation increase   

70 

(67 

) 

388 

(368 

) 

Expected
      long-term rate of return on plan assets 

(118 

) 

118 

Other
      postretirement benefits: 

Assumed
      discount rate   

(25 

) 

13 

(432 

) 

479 

Expected rate
      of compensation increase   

1 

(1 

) 

Expected
      long-term rate of return on plan assets 

(13 

) 

13 

Assumed health
      care cost trend rate   

34 

(30 

) 

220 

(186 

) 

A-99 

SENSITIVITY 

Foreign
Exchange Rate Sensitivity 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Machinery and
Engines use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage unmatched
foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to minimize the risk
of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our
foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for managing anticipated foreign
currency cash flow for up to five years. Based on the anticipated and firmly
committed cash inflow and outflow for our Machinery and Engines operations for
the next 12 months and the foreign currency derivative instruments in place at
year-end, a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to all
other currencies would adversely affect our expected 2010 cash flow for our
Machinery and Engines operations by approximately $240 million. Last year
similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $378 million adverse
impact on 2009 cash flow.  We determine our net exposures by
calculating the difference in cash inflow and outflow by currency and adding or
subtracting outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments. We multiply
these net amounts by 10 percent to determine the sensitivity. 

Since our policy for
Financial Products operations is to hedge the foreign exchange risk when the
currency of our debt portfolio does not match the currency of our receivable
portfolio, a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to all
other currencies would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flow. Neither our policy nor the effect
of a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar has changed from that
reported at the end of last year. 

The effect of the
hypothetical change in exchange rates ignores the effect this movement may have
on other variables, including competitive risk. If it were possible to quantify
this competitive impact, the results would probably be different from the
sensitivity effects shown above. In addition, it is unlikely that all currencies
would uniformly strengthen or weaken relative to the U.S. dollar. In reality,
some currencies may weaken while others may strengthen. Our primary exposure
(excluding competitive risk) is to exchange rate movements in the Australian
dollar, British pound, Japanese yen and euro. 

Interest
Rate Sensitivity 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    For our Machinery
and Engines operations, we have the option to use interest rate swaps to lower
the cost of borrowed funds by attaching fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to
fixed-rate debt. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move (increase) in
interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would adversely affect
2010 pretax earnings of Machinery and Engines by $13 million. Last year, similar
assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $16 million adverse impact on
2009 pretax earnings. This effect is caused by the interest rate fluctuations on
our short-term debt and fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. 

For our Financial
Products operations, we use interest rate derivative instruments primarily to
meet our match-funding objectives and strategies. We have a match-funding policy
whereby the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate) of our debt portfolio
is matched to the interest rate profile of our earning asset portfolio (finance
receivables and operating leases) within certain parameters. In connection with
that policy, we use interest rate swap agreements to modify the debt structure.
Match funding assists us in maintaining our interest rate spreads, regardless of
the direction interest rates move. 

In order to properly
manage sensitivity to changes in interest rates, Financial Products measures the
potential impact of different interest rate assumptions on pretax earnings. All
on-balance sheet positions, including derivative financial instruments, are
included in the analysis. The primary assumptions included in the analysis are
that there are no new fixed rate assets or liabilities, the proportion of fixed
rate debt to fixed rate assets remains unchanged and the level of floating rate
assets and debt remain constant. Based on the December 31, 2009 balance sheet
under these assumptions, the analysis estimates the impact of a 100 basis point
immediate and sustained parallel rise in interest rates to be an $8 million
decrease to pretax earnings for 2009.  Last year, similar assumptions
and calculations yielded a potential $28 million adverse impact on 2009 pretax
earnings. 

This analysis does
not necessarily represent our current outlook of future market interest rate
movement, nor does it consider any actions management could undertake in
response to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, no assurance can be given
that actual results would be consistent with the results of our
estimate. 

A-100 

NON-GAAP
 FINANCIAL MEASURES  

The following
definitions are provided for "non-GAAP financial measures" in connection with
Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K issued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  These non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized
meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and therefore are unlikely to be comparable to
the calculation of similar measures for other companies.  Management
does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for
the related GAAP measures. 

Profit
Per Share Excluding Redundancy Costs 

During the fourth
quarter of 2009, redundancy costs related to employment reductions in response
to the global recession were $65 million or $0.05 per share.  2009
redundancy costs were $706 million or $0.75 per share.  We believe it
is important to separately quantify the profit-per-share impact of redundancy
costs in order for our 2009 results to be meaningful to our
readers.  Reconciliation of profit per share excluding redundancy
costs to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, profit per share is as
follows: 

Supplemental
Consolidating Data 

We are providing
supplemental consolidating data for the purpose of additional analysis. 
The data has been grouped as follows: 

Consolidated  Caterpillar Inc.
and its subsidiaries. 

Machinery and Engines  The
Machinery and Engines data contained in the schedules on pages A-102 to A-104
are "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in Regulation G. These non-GAAP financial measures have no
standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and therefore, are unlikely to be
comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies.
Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a
substitute for the related GAAP measures. Caterpillar defines Machinery and
Engines as it is presented in the supplemental data as Caterpillar Inc. and
its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis.
Machinery and Engines information relates to our design, manufacturing,
marketing and parts distribution operations. Financial Products information
relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of
Caterpillar and other equipment. The nature of these businesses is different,
especially with regard to the financial position and cash flow items.
Caterpillar management utilizes this presentation internally to highlight these
differences. We also believe this presentation will assist readers in
understanding our business. 

Financial Products   primarily
our finance and insurance subsidiaries, Cat Financial and Cat
Insurance. 

Consolidating
Adjustments  eliminations of transactions between Machinery and Engines
and Financial Products. 

Pages A-102 to A-104
reconcile Machinery and Engines with Financial Products on the equity basis to
Caterpillar Inc. consolidated financial information. 

A-101 

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted
      for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      Financial Products' revenues earned from Machinery and
      Engines. 

3  

Elimination of
      net expenses recorded by Machinery and Engines paid to Financial
      Products. 

4  

Elimination of
      interest expense recorded between Financial Products and Machinery and
      Engines. 

5  

Elimination of
      discount recorded by Machinery and Engines on receivables sold to
      Financial Products and of interest earned between Machinery and Engines
      and Financial Products. 

6  

Elimination of
      Financial Products' profit due to equity method of
    accounting. 

7  

Profit
      attributable to common
stockholders. 

A-102 

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted
      for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      receivables between Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products. 

3  

Reclassification
      of Machinery and Engines' trade receivables purchased by Cat Financial and
      Cat Financial's wholesale inventory receivables. 

4  

Elimination of
      Machinery and Engines' insurance premiums that are prepaid to Financial
      Products. 

5  

Elimination of
      Financial Products' equity which is accounted for on Machinery and Engines
      on the equity basis. 

6  

Reclassification
      reflecting required netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities by taxing
      jurisdiction. 

7  

Elimination of
      debt between Machinery and Engines and Financial
  Products. 

8  

Elimination of
      payables between Machinery and Engines and Financial
    Products. 

9  

Elimination of
      prepaid insurance in Financial Products' accrued
  expenses. 

A-103 

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted
      for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      Financial Products' profit after tax due to equity method of
      accounting. 

3  

Non-cash
      adjustment for the undistributed earnings from Financial
      Products. 

4  

Elimination of
      non-cash adjustments and changes in assets and liabilities related to
      consolidated reporting. 

5  

Reclassification
      of Cat Financial's cash flow activity from investing to operating for
      receivables that arose from the sale of inventory. 

6  

Net proceeds
      and payments to/from Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products. 

7  

Change in
      investment and common stock related to Financial
  Products. 

8  

Elimination of Financial
      Products' acquisition of Machinery and Engines' noncontrolling interest in
      a Financial Products subsidiary. 

A-104 

OUTLOOK   

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2010
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK 

The recent economic
data indicates that the world economy started growing again, ending the world's
worst postwar recession.  We expect this recovery to last throughout
2010, with the world economy growing more than 3 percent. 

We expect
      interest rates will remain low since unemployment rates are high and
      inflation rates are low.  Even though we do not expect inflation
      will become a problem, we expect some central banks will eventually
      implement precautionary interest rate
increases. 

We project the
      Federal Reserve will increase rates from about 0.15 to 1 percent by the
      end of 2010; the European Central Bank, from 1 to 2
      percent.  Australia has already increased rates to 3.75 percent
      and likely will increase rates a further 100 basis points in
      2010.  Several developing countries, including Brazil, China and
      India, likely will increase rates. 

Most key
      credit spreads have returned to normal and large businesses have access to
      credit.  We expect credit standards for consumers and small
      businesses will ease, improving credit
  availability. 

Stimulus
      programs should have maximum impacts in the first half of
      2010.  Some governments may expand programs to provide
      additional support. 

Commodity
      prices improved steadily throughout 2009, and most prices are well above
      levels needed to encourage increased production and
      investment.  In addition, we expect that world demand for most
      commodities will increase this year, further tightening
      supplies.  Our planning assumes oil prices will average $83 per
      barrel, and copper prices will average $3.20 per
  pound. 

Developing
      economies are growing again, and we expect they will lead the economic
      recovery.  Economic growth in the developing world should be
      about 6 percent in 2010, up from 1.5-percent growth in
    2009. 

Asia/Pacific
      was the first region to recover, and growth should reach almost 7.5
      percent in 2010.  We expect more than 10-percent growth in China
      and 8-percent growth in India.  These high growth rates should
      continue to improve construction spending and encourage investment in
      mining capacity. 

Latin American
      economies recovered rapidly in the last half of 2009, and we forecast
      regional growth of almost 4 percent in 2010.  Ongoing recoveries
      in construction and mining should
continue. 

The economies
      of Africa/Middle East and CIS should grow about 3.5 percent in
      2010.  Higher energy and metals prices should encourage
      producers to increase investments and
  production. 

Developed
      economies have performed poorly for several years, and recoveries have
      been slower to develop.  We expect these economies will grow 2
      percent in 2010, which will maintain significant excess capacity and keep
      inflation subdued. 

We forecast
      3.5-percent growth in the U.S. economy, which is slower than past
      recoveries from severe recessions.  Housing and mining
      production should improve from very depressed levels in
      2009.  However, we expect continued decline in nonresidential
      building construction, and delays in passing a highway bill likely will
      cause highway contractors to remain cautious about purchasing
      equipment. 

The European
      Central Bank appears to be reducing its liquidity support, and bank
      lending remains weak.  We expect very modest recovery in
      2010 economic growth of about 1 percent.  Construction surveys
      indicate spending should rebound somewhat, particularly for
      infrastructure. 

The Bank of
      Japan has not been able to end deflation and the associated weak economic
      growth.  We do not expect any policy improvements this year, and
      the Japanese economy should grow only 1.5 percent in
  2010. 

For 2010, one
      of our most significant economic concerns is that central banks in the
      developed economies will misjudge inflation risks and begin raising
      interest rates too quickly.  Doing so could lead to a renewed
      downturn that would be worse than the one just ended.  However,
      we do not expect that rate increases will occur early enough, or be large
      enough, to be a major problem in
2010. 

2010
SALES AND REVENUES OUTLOOK 

We are forecasting
2010 sales and revenues to be up 10 to 25 percent from 2009.  Key
elements of the outlook for 2010 include: 

In 2009,
      dealers reduced inventories of new Caterpillar machines and engines by
      nearly $4 billion.  At the midpoint of the 2010 sales range, we
      expect little change in dealer inventories, resulting in higher production
      and sales for Caterpillar. 

Growth in the
      world economy is driving improved demand for
      commodities.  Higher demand coupled with favorable commodity
      prices should be positive for mining-related sales in
      2010.  Over the past few months, mining-related order activity
      has increased substantially, and we expect to increase production of
      mining-related equipment in
2010. 

A-105 

Improving
      economic conditions, particularly in developing economies, should also
      improve construction spending and increase end-user demand for
      Machinery. 

We expect that
      price realization will be positive in 2010, but the improvement will
      likely be small, less than 1
percent. 

While
      Machinery sales are expected to increase in 2010, at the midpoint of the
      outlook range Engines sales are expected to decline.  Turbine
      sales were a record in 2009, and large reciprocating engine sales were
      relatively strong through the first half of
  2009. 

2010
PROFIT OUTLOOK 

At the midpoint of
the outlook range for 2010 sales and revenues we expect that profit will be
about $2.50 per share.   Profit per share in 2009 was $1.43, or
$2.18 excluding redundancy costs.  Key positive elements of the profit
outlook for 2010 include: 

Sales volume
      is expected to be the most significant positive profit driver in
      2010. 

Material costs
      are expected to be favorable in
2010. 

Improved
      operating efficiency resulting from higher production volume and
      continuing improvement from the Cat Production System with 6
      Sigma. 

Price
      realization is expected to be slightly
  favorable. 

Financial
      Products' profit before tax is expected to be about flat compared with
      2009, as the impact of improving economic conditions is expected to be
      about offset by the impact of lower earning
  assets. 

The key positive
elements of the 2010 profit outlook are expected to be partially offset by the
following: 

In 2010, we
      are forecasting income taxes to be an expense of about 30 percent of
      profit before tax.  The 2009 effective tax rate was
      significantly impacted by a favorable geographic mix of profits and losses
      from a tax perspective and benefits from prior-year tax
      returns.  With higher profit, we expect the 2010 effective tax
      rate to be closer to historical levels.  This is based on
      current tax law and therefore does not include the U.S. research and
      development tax credit and other benefits that have not been extended past
      2009.  In addition, the 2010 tax provision would be negatively
      impacted if U.S. healthcare legislation was enacted and made government
      subsidies received for Medicare-equivalent prescription drug (Medicare
      Part D) coverage taxable. 

Product mix is
      expected to be unfavorable.  The impact of dealer inventory
      declines in 2009 had a more significant negative impact on smaller,
      lower-margin machines.  As a result, production and sales of
      smaller machines will likely be proportionally higher in
      2010.  In addition, while total sales and revenues are expected
      to be up 10 to 25 percent in 2010, sales of relatively higher-margin
      turbines and large reciprocating engines are expected to
      decline.  The impact of improving demand for mining equipment is
      positive, but not enough to offset the significant negative
      factors. 

R D
      expense is expected to increase about 20 percent, primarily to support
      product development programs related to EPA Tier 4 emissions
      requirements. 

We do not
      expect the favorable impact of currency that was in 2009's other
      income/expense to recur in 2010. 

Depreciation
      expense is expected to increase.  Machinery and Engines capital
      expenditures are expected to be about $1.6 billion in 2010, up from $1.3
      billion in 2009. 

Pension
      expense is expected to increase. 

Diluted shares
      outstanding at the end of 2009 are about 2.5 percent higher than the
      full-year average.  This is a result of stock contributed to the
      pension plan in the second quarter of 2009 and increased dilution related
      to the increase in the share price. 

We expect sales and
revenues to ramp up as we progress through 2010.  As a result, we
expect sales and revenues and profit for the first quarter of 2010 will likely
be less than one-fourth of the 2010's outlook for sales and revenues and
profit. 

The information
included in the Outlook section is forward looking and involves risks and
uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. A discussion of
these risks and uncertainties is contained in Item 1A of this
Form 10-K.   

A-106 

SUPPLEMENTAL  STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION 

Stock
      Purchase Plan 

Current
      stockholders and other interested investors may purchase Caterpillar Inc.
      common stock directly through the Investor Services Program sponsored and
      administered by our Transfer Agent.  Current stockholders can
      get more information on the program from our Transfer Agent using the
      contact information provided above. Non-stockholders can request program
      materials by calling: (866) 353-7849. The Investor Services Program
      materials are available on-line from our Transfer Agent's website or by
      following a link from  www.CAT.com/dspp . 

Company
      Information 

Current
      information - 

phone our
      Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080
      (Outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen
      to a summary of Caterpillar's latest financial results and current
      outlook, or to request a copy of results by fax or mail 

request, view,
      or download materials on-line or register for e-mail alerts by visiting
       www.CAT.com/materialsrequest  

Historical
      information - 

view/download
      on-line at  www.CAT.com/historical  

Annual
      Meeting 

On Wednesday,
      June 9, 2010, at 1:30 p.m., Central Time, the annual meeting of
      stockholders will be held at the Northern Trust Building, Chicago,
      Illinois. Proxy materials are being sent to stockholders on or about April
      30, 2010. 

Internet 

Visit us on
      the Internet at  www.CAT.com . 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Information
      contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this
      document. 

A-107 

Common
      Stock (NYSE: CAT) 

Listing
      Information:  Caterpillar common stock is listed on the New York and
      Chicago stock exchanges in the United States, and on stock exchanges in
      Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain and
  Switzerland. 

Price
      Ranges:  Quarterly price ranges of Caterpillar common stock on the
      New York Stock Exchange, the principal market in which the stock is
      traded, were: 

Performance
      Graph:   Total Cumulative
      Stockholder Return for Five-Year Period Ending December 31,
      2009  

The graph
      below shows the cumulative stockholder return assuming an investment of
      $100 on December 31, 2004, and reinvestment of dividends issued
      thereafter. 

A-108 

Audit 

Compensation 

Governance 

Public
      Policy 

W. Frank
      Blount 

* 

John R.
      Brazil 

Daniel M.
      Dickinson 

John T.
      Dillon 

* 

Eugene V.
      Fife 

Gail D.
      Fosler 

Juan
      Gallardo 

David R.
      Goode 

* 

Peter A.
      Magowan 

William A.
      Osborn 

James W.
      Owens 

Charles D.
      Powell 

* 

Edward B.
      Rust, Jr. 

Susan C.
      Schwab 

Joshua I.
      Smith 

* Chairman of
      Committee 

James W.
      Owens 
      1     

Chairman and
      Chief Executive Officer 

Douglas R.
      Oberhelman  2  

Vice Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer - Elect Group President 

Richard P.
      Lavin   

Group
      President 

Stuart L.
      Levenick   

Group
      President 

Edward J.
      Rapp   

Group
      President 

G rard R.
      Vittecoq   

Group
      President 

Steven H.
      Wunning   

Group
      President 

Kent M.
      Adams   

Vice
      President 

William P.
      Ainsworth 

Vice
      President 

Ali M.
      Bahaj   

Vice
      President 

Rodney C.
      Beeler   

Vice
      President 

Mary H.
      Bell   

Vice
      President 

Thomas J.
      Bluth   

Vice
      President 

David P.
      Bozeman   

Vice
      President 

James B.
      Buda   

Vice
      President, General Counsel and Secretary 

David B.
      Burritt   

Vice President
      and Chief Financial Officer 

Richard J.
      Case   

Vice
      President 

Robert B.
      Charter   

Vice
      President 

Christopher C.
      Curfman 

Vice
      President 

Paolo
      Fellin   

Vice
      President 

Steven L.
      Fisher   

Vice
      President 

Gregory S.
      Folley   

Vice
      President 

Stephen A.
      Gosselin 

Vice
      President 

Hans A.
      Haefeli   

Vice
      President 

John S.
      Heller   

Vice President
      and Chief Information Officer 

Gwenne A.
      Henricks 

Vice
      President 

Stephen P.
      Larson   

Vice
      President 

Daniel M.
      Murphy   

Vice
      President 

James J.
      Parker   

Vice
      President 

Mark R.
      Pflederer   

Vice
      President 

William J.
      Rohner   

Vice
      President 

Christiano V.
      Schena 

Vice
      President 

William F.
      Springer   

Vice
      President 

Gary A.
      Stampanato 

Vice
      President 

Gary A.
      Stroup   

Vice
      President 

Tana L.
      Utley   

Vice
      President 

James D.
      Waters, Jr. 

Vice
      President 

Robert T.
      Williams   

Vice
      President 

Jiming
      Zhu   

Vice
      President 

Bradley M.
      Halverson 

Controller 

Kevin E.
      Colgan   

Treasurer 

Edward J.
      Scott  3     

Chief Audit
      Officer 

Christopher C.
      Spears  3  

Chief Ethics
      and Compliance Officer 

Jananne A.
      Copeland 

Chief
      Accounting Officer 

Robin D.
      Beran   

Assistant
      Treasurer 

Laurie J.
      Huxtable   

Assistant
      Secretary 

1 Will
      retire as CEO effective July 1, 2010 and as Chairman effective October 31,
      2010.  

2
      Effective January 1, 2010.  Will become CEO effective July 1,
      2010 and Chairman effective October 31, 2010.  

3
      Effective January 1, 2010.  

A-109 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 10
 ex_21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT

ex_21.htm 

EXHIBIT
      21 

CATERPILLAR
      INC. 

Subsidiaries    and    
 Affiliated
      Companies   

                (as
      of December 31, 2009) 

Subsidiaries (51% or more
      ownership) 

Name of Company  

Where Organized  

1446790
      Ontario Limited 

Ontario 

Acefun S.A.
      de C.V. 

Mexico 

Aceros
      Fundidos Internacionales LLC 

Delaware 

Aceros
      Fundidos Internacionales S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Anchor
      Coupling Inc. 

Delaware 

Asia Power
      Systems (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

AsiaTrak
      (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

Carter
      Machinery Company, Incorporated 

Delaware 

Carter
      Rental, Inc. 

Virginia 

Cat Rental
      Central Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      East Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      Hokkaido Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      Kyushu Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      West Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      (Africa) (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Holding Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Investments Parent Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (China) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (China) Machinery Components Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (HK) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Caterpillar
      (U.K.) Limited 

England 

Caterpillar
      (Xuzhou) Design Center Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      AccessAccount Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Americas C.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Americas Co. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Americas Funding Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Americas Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Americas Services Co. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Asia Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      Asia Pacific L.P. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Belgium S. A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Brasil Comercio de Maquinas e Pecas Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Brazil LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Central Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Centro de Formacion, S.L. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      China Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      CIS LLC 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      CMC, LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Holding S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Commercial LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Northern Europe Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Commercial S.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Commercial S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Services S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Commerciale S.r.L. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Communications LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Corporativo Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Credito, S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Financiera de Objecto Multiple, E.
      N.R. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      DC Pension Trust 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Distribution Mexico S.R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Distribution Services Europe B.V.B.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      East Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Elkader LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Engine Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Environmental Technologies Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      European Finance s.r.o. 

Czechoslovakia 

Caterpillar
      Finance Corporation 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Finance France S.A. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Finance, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Caterpillar
      Financial Acquisition Funding LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Acquisition Funding Partners 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      Financial Australia Limited 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Corporacion Financiera, S.A., E.F.C. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Financial Dealer Funding LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Funding Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Member Company 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial New Zealand Limited 

New
      Zealand 

Caterpillar
      Financial Nordic Services AB 

Sweden 

Caterpillar
      Financial Nova Scotia Corporation 

Nova
      Scotia 

Caterpillar
      Financial OOO 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Receivables Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Renting, S.A. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Financial S.A. Arrendamento Mercantil 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Financial S.A. Credito, Financiamento e Investimento 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Financial SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (Dubai) Limited 

United Arab
      Emirates 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (Ireland) plc 

Ireland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services CR, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Korea, Ltd. 

Korea 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Limited Les Services Financiers Caterpillar
      Limitee 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Norway AS 

Norway 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Philippines Inc. 

Philippines 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Poland Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Ukraine LLC 

Ukraine 

Caterpillar
      Finansal Kiralama Anomim Sirketi 

Turkey 

Caterpillar
      Fomento Comercial Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Forest Products Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      GB, L.L.C. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Global Mining Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Global Services LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Group Services S.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Hokkaido Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Holding (France) S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Holding Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Holding Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Hungary Component Manufacturing Ltd. 

Hungary 

Caterpillar
      Hydraulics Italia S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Impact Products Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      India Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Co. Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Company 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Holdings Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Services Corporation 

Tennessee 

Caterpillar
      International Finance Limited 

Ireland 

Caterpillar
      International Finance Luxembourg, S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      International Holding S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      International Investments Co peratie U.A. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      International Investments S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      International Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      International Product SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      International Services Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      International Services del Peru S.A. 

Peru 

Caterpillar
      Investment One SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Investment Two SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Investments 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      IRB LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Japan Accounting Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Akashi General Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Sagami Engineering Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan Sagami General Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Japan System Services Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Panama, S. de R.L. 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Puerto Rico, S. en C. 

Puerto
      Rico 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services, S.R.L. 

Costa
      Rica 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Servicios de Chile Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Support Services, S. DE R.L. 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Leasing (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Caterpillar
      Leasing Chile, S.A. 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Leasing GmbH (Leipzig) 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Leasing Operativo Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Life Insurance Company 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      Logistics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Administrative Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de
      C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics ML Services France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (France) S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Servces Australia Pty Ltd 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services China Limited 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Egypt Ltd. 

Egypt 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services India Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International LLC 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International N.V. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Polska Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Spain, S.A. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services Italia S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services Limited Liability Company 

Hungary 

Caterpillar
      Luxembourg Group S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      Marine Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Marine Power UK Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Marine Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Materiels Routiers S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Mining Chile Servicios Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Motoren (Guangdong) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Motoren GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Motoren Henstedt-Ulzburg GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Motoren Rostock GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Motoren Verwaltungs-GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      North America C.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      NZ Funding Parent Limited 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      of Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      of Canada Corporation 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      of Delaware, Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Okinawa Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Operator Training Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Overseas Credit Corporation S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Overseas Investment Holding, S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Overseas S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Panama Services SA 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Paving Products Inc. 

Oklahoma 

Caterpillar
      Paving Products Xuzhou Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Pension Trust Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Poland Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Power Generations Systems (Chile) SpA 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Power Generations Systems L.L.C. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Systems y Compa ia Limitada 

Nicaragua 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures International, Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Prodotti Stradali S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Product Development S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Product Services Corporation 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      R D Center (China) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Redistribution Services International S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Reman Powertrain Indiana LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Reman Powertrain Services, Inc. 

South
      Carolina 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Drivetrain LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Renting France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Sales Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Services Limited 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Servicios Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Servicios Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Servizi Italia Srl 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Skinningrove Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Special Products Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Special Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Switchgear Holding Inc. 

Georgia 

Caterpillar
      Technologies Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Torreon S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Tosno, L.L.C. 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Transmissions France S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Tunnelling Canada Ltd. 

Ontario 

Caterpillar
      UGM Techonolgy Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      UK Acquisition Partners LP 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Employee Trust Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      UK Engines Company Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Group Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      UK Holdings Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Underground Mining Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Used Equipment Services Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      West Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Work Tools B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Work Tools, Inc. 

Kansas 

Caterpillar
      World Trading Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Xuzhou Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar/SCB
      Investments LP 

Delaware 

Caterpillar/SCB
      Receivables Finance LP 

Nevada 

Catsub I,
      Inc. 

Oregon 

Centre de
      Distribution de Wallonie S.A. 

Belgium 

CFRC/CFMC
      Investments, LLC 

Delaware 

Chemetron-Railway
      Canada Corporation 

Ontario 

Chemetron-Railway
      Products, Inc. 

Delaware 

EDC European
      Excavator Design Center GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

EDC European
      Excavator Design Center Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Elektrocieplawnia
      Starahowice Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Energy
      Services International Limited 

Bermuda 

Ensambladora
      Tecnologica de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Euronov
      Polska 

France 

Eurenov
      S.A.S. 

Poland 

F.G. Wilson
      (Engineering) Limited 

Northern
      Ireland 

F.G. Wilson
      (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

F.G. Wilson
      (USA) LLC 

Delaware 

F.G. Wilson
      Generators India Private Limited 

India 

F. Perkins
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Federal
      Financial Services LLC 

Delaware 

Forchester do
      Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

GFCM
      Servicios, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Inmobiliaria
      Conek, S.A. 

Mexico 

Kentuckiana
      Railcar Repair   Storage Facility, LLC 

Indiana 

Lovat Europe
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Lovat
      Holdings Ltd. 

Ontario 

Lovat
      Inc. 

Ontario 

Lovat Trading
      (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Magnum Power
      Products, LLC 

Delaware 

MaK Americas
      Inc. 

Illinois 

MaK
      Beteiligungs GmbH 

Germany 

MaK Power
      Systems Lanka (Private) Ltd. 

Sri
      Lanka 

Mec-Track
      S.r.l. 

Italy 

Metalmark
      Financial Services Limited 

England and
      Wales 

MGE
      Equipamentos e Servicos Ferroviarios Ltda. 

Brazil 

Motori
      Perkins S.P.A. 

Italy 

Nadri
      Limited 

Ontario 

Necoles
      Investments B.V. 

Netherlands 

P. T.
      Caterpillar Finance Indonesia 

Indonesia 

P. T. Natra
      Raya 

Indonesia 

P. T. Solar
      Services Indonesia 

Indonesia 

Perkins
      Engines (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd 

Singapore 

Perkins
      Engines Company Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Engines, Inc. 

Maryland 

Perkins
      France (S.A.S.) 

France 

Perkins Group
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Holdings Limited LLC 

Delaware
      and 

                England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      International Inc. 

Delaware 

Perkins
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Motoren GmbH 

Germany 

Perkins
      Motores do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Perkins Power
      Systems Technology (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines LLC 

Delaware 

Perkins
      Technology Inc. 

Delaware 

Premier
      Automotive Parts Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Progress
      Metal Reclamation Company 

Kentucky 

Progress Rail
      Canada Corporation 

Canada 

Progress Rail
      Holdings Inc. 

Alabama 

Progress Rail
      Raceland Corporation 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Services Corporation 

Alabama 

Progress Rail
      Services de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Progress Rail
      Services Holdings Corp. 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Services LLC 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Switching Services LLC 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      TransCanada Corporation 

Nova
      Scotia 

Progress Rail
      Wildwood, LLC 

Florida 

Progress
      Vanguard Corporation 

Delaware 

Przedsiebiorstwem
      Energetyki Cieplncj (Bugaj) Sp. Z o.o. 

Poland 

Qingzhou
      Aoweier Engineering Machinery Co., Ltd. 

China 

Qingzhou
      Shandong Logistics Co., Ltd. 

China 

Railcar,
      Ltd. 

Georgia 

Rapisarda
      Industries Srl 

Italy 

Richlu
      Holdings Inc. 

Ontario 

S   L
      Railroad, LLC 

Nebraska 

SCM Singapore
      Holdings Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

SEM Service
        Distribution Centre 

United Arab
      Emirates 

Servicios
      Administrativos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Servicios
      Ejecutivos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Servicios
      Logisticos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Shandong SEM
      Machinery Co Ltd. 

China 

Societe
      Industrial Rubber Hoses Sarl 

Tunisia 

Solar
      Turbines Canada Ltd./Ltee. 

Canada 

Solar
      Turbines CIS Limited Liability Company 

Russia 

Solar
      Turbines Europe S.A. 

Belgium 

Solar
      Turbines Incorporated 

Delaware 

Solar
      Turbines International Company 

Delaware 

Solar
      Turbines Malaysia Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Solar
      Turbines Services Company 

California 

Solar
      Turbines Services Nigeria Limited 

Nigeria 

Solar
      Turbines Services of Argentina S.R.L. 

Argentina 

Solar
      Turbines Trinidad   Tobago Limited 

Trinidad and
      Tobago 

SPL Software
      Alliance LLC 

Delaware 

Tecnologia
      Modificada, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tokyo Rental
      Ltd. 

Japan 

Turbinas
      Solar de Venezuela, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Turbinas
      Solar S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Turbo
      Tecnologia de Reparaciones S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Turbomach
      (India) Private Limited 

India 

Turbomach
      Asia Ltd. 

Thailand 

Turbomach
      Endustriyel Gaz Turbinleri Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited 

Turkey 

Turbomach
      France S.A.R.L. 

France 

Turbomach
      GmbH 

Germany 

Turbomach
      Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Turbomach
      Pakistan (Private) Limited 

Pakistan 

Turbomach
      S.r.L. 

Italy 

Turbomach SA
      - Spain 

Spain 

Turbomach SA
      - Switzerland 

Switzerland 

Turbomach-Solar
      de Colombia S.A. 

Columbia 

Turbomach Sp.
      Z o.o. 

Poland 

Turner
      Powertrain Systems Limited 

England and
      Wales 

UK Hose
      Assembly Limited 

England and
      Wales 

United
      Industries Corporation 

Kentucky 

VALA (UK)
      LP 

England and
      Wales 

VALA
      Inc. 

Delaware 

VALA
      LLC 

Delaware 

Veratech
      Holding B.V. 

Netherlands 

West Virginia
      Auto Shredding Inc. 

West
      Virginia 

XPart
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Affiliated Companies (50% and less
      ownership) 

Name of Company  

Where Organized  

10G
      LLC 

Delaware 

Advanced
      Filtration Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Advanced
      Filtration Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

AFSI Europe
      s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Akoya,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

ARCH
      Development Fund I, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASIMCO
      International Casting (Shanxi) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Cat Rental
      Tohoku Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Institute (Vic-Tas) Pty Ltd 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Trimble Control Technologies LLC 

Delaware 

Energy
      Technologies Institute LLP 

England and
      Wales 

Energyst
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

Evercompounds
      S.p.a. 

Italy 

Firefly
      Energy Inc. 

Delaware 

FMS Equipment
      Rentals Inc. 

Delaware 

Intelligent
      Switchgear Organization LLC 

Delaware 

IronPlanet
      Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

IronPlanet.com,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

K-Lea Co.,
      Ltd. 

Japan 

M.O.P.E.S.A.
      Motores Power, S.A. 

Mexico 

MCFA Canada
      Ltd. 

Ontario 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift America de Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. 

Delaware 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Nagano Kouki
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

NC2 Global
      (Gilbraltar) Limited 

Gilbraltar 

NC2 Global
      Australia Proprietary Limited 

Australia 

NC2 Global
      LLC 

Delaware 

NC2
      Luxembourg Development S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

NC2
      Luxembourg Holding S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

NC2
      Luxembourg Proprietary S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

NC2
      Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Nihon Kenki
      Lease Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Polyhose
      India (Rubber) Private Limited 

India 

Rapidparts
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Rensel
      Co. 

Japan 

Servicios
      Indistriales Technocast, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Societe de
      Electricite d el Bibane 

Tunisia 

Tech Itoh
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Technocast,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tri-County
      Venture Capital Fund I, LLC 

Delaware 

Turboservices
      SDN BHD 

Malaysia 

VirtualSite
      Solutions LLC 

Delaware 

Yaita
      Jusyaryou Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Yeep
      Co. 

Japan 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 11
 ex_23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ex_23.htm 

EXHIBIT 23  

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We hereby consent
to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3
(Nos. 333-43133, 33-46194, 333-22041, 333-43983, 333-57512, 333-136265,
333-71468, 333-135465, 33-40393, 33-39120, 333-159262, 333-162837, 333-135123),
Form S-8 (Nos. 2-97450, 333-37353, 33-8003, 333-03609, 333-41464, 333-98197,
333-115837, 333-32853, 33-32851, 333-111355, 333-128342, 333-135467, 333-133275,
333-133266, 333-133265, 333-141548) and Form S-4 (No. 333-121003) of Caterpillar
Inc. of our report dated February 19, 2010 relating to the financial statements
and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in this Form 10-K. 

/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

      Peoria,
Illinois 

        February  19,
2010  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 ex_31-1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

ex_31-1.htm 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION 

I, James W. Owens, certify that: 

1. 

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of
      Caterpillar Inc.; 

2. 

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
      any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
      necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
      which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
      covered by this report; 

3. 

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
      other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
      material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
      flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The registrant's other certifying officer and I are
      responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
      procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
      internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we
have: 

a) 

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
      caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
      supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
      registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
      by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
      this report is being prepared; 

b) 

designed such internal control over financial
      reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
      designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
      the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
      statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles; 

c) 

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's
      disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
      conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
      procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on
      such evaluation; and 

d) 

disclosed in this report any change in the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred
      during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
      fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
      affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's
      internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 

The registrant's other certifying officer and I have
      disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
      financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee
      of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      function): 

a) 

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
      in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
      which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability
      to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
      and 

b) 

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
      management or other employees who have a significant role in the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

February 19, 2010 

/s/James W. Owens 

Chairman of the Board and 

                Chief Executive Officer 

(James W. Owens) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 ex_31-2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

ex_31-2.htm 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION 

I, David B. Burritt, certify that: 

1. 

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of
      Caterpillar Inc.; 

2. 

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
      any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
      necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
      which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
      covered by this report; 

3. 

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
      other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
      material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
      flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The registrant's other certifying officer and I are
      responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
      procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
      internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we
have: 

a) 

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
      caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
      supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
      registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
      by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
      this report is being prepared; 

b) 

designed such internal control over financial
      reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
      designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
      the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
      statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles; 

c) 

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's
      disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
      conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
      procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report; based on
      such evaluation; and 

d) 

disclosed in this report any change in the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred
      during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
      fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
      affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's
      internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 

The registrant's other certifying officer and I have
      disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
      financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee
      of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      function): 

a) 

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
      in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
      which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability
      to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
      and 

b) 

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
      management or other employees who have a significant role in the
      registrant's internal controls over financial reporting. 

February 19, 2010 

/s/David B. Burritt 

Vice President and 

                Chief Financial Officer 

(David B. Burritt) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 14
 ex_32.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

ex_32.htm 

EXHIBIT 32 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 

                18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 

                AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

                SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF
      2002 

In connection with the annual report of Caterpillar
      Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31,
      2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
      hereof (the "Report"), the undersigned hereby certify pursuant to 18
      U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of our
knowledge: 

(1) 

The Report fully complies with the requirements of
      section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934;
      and 

(2) 

The information contained in the Report fairly
      presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
      operations of the Company. 

February 19, 2010 

/s/James W. Owens 

Chairman of the Board and 

                Chief Executive Officer 

(James W. Owens) 

February 19, 2010 

/s/David B. Burritt 

Vice President and 

                Chief Financial Officer 

(David B. Burritt) 

A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to Caterpillar Inc. and will be retained by
Caterpillar Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 cat-20091231_cal.xml

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 cat-20091231_def.xml

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 cat-20091231_lab.xml

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 cat-20091231_pre.xml

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.INS>
 19
 cat-20091231.xml

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 20
 cat-20091231.xsd

</EX-101.SCH>

10-K
 30
 form10k_2009.pdf

