<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140218_10-K_edgar_data_18230_0000018230-14-000058_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>88050247</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>842546</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>36497859</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>21510735</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>22871468</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5206275</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>216</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000018230-14-000058.hdr.sgml : 20140217
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140218142526
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000018230-14-000058
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		31
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140218
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140218

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CATERPILLAR INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000018230
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIP [3531]
		IRS NUMBER:				370602744
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00768
		FILM NUMBER:		14621711

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3096751000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19860623

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000018230-14-000058.txt : 20140218

10-K
 1
 cat_10-kx12312013.htm
 10-K

CAT_10-K_12.31.2013 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C.  20549 

FORM 10-K 
    
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2013    
    
  OR 

For the transition period from                      to                     . 
    
  Commission File No. 1-768 
    
  CATERPILLAR INC. 
  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:    (309) 675-1000 
    
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

(1)    
    In addition to the New York Stock Exchange, Caterpillar common stock is also listed on stock exchanges in France, Germany and Switzerland. 
       
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    None 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes        No   o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes   o    No       
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes          No     o 
    
  Indicate by a check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes          No     o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  (Check one): 
    
                   Large accelerated filer     x 
      
    Accelerated filer     o 

Non-accelerated filer     o 
      
    Smaller Reporting Company     o 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes   o    No     
    
  As of June 28, 2013, there were 647,615,068 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant (assuming only for purposes of this computation that directors and executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately $53.3       billion.  
    
  As of December 31, 2013  , there were 637,822,342 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding. 
    
  Documents Incorporated by Reference 
    
  Portions of the documents listed below have been incorporated by reference into the indicated parts of this Form 10-K, as specified in the responses to the item numbers involved. 
    
                 Part III 
    2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement (Proxy Statement) to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) within 120 days after the end of the calendar year. 
      Parts I, II, IV 
    General and Financial Information for 2013 containing the information required by SEC Rule 14a-3 for an annual report to security holders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K (Exhibit 13). 

Table of Contents  

   TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

Part I  
     Item 1.  
     Business  
    1 

Item 1A.  
     Risk Factors  
    9 

Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    19 

Item 1C.  
     Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    19 

Item 2.  
     Properties  
    20 

Item 3.  
     Legal Proceedings  
    22 

Item 4.  
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    22 

Part II  
     Item 5.  
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    22 

Item 6.  
     Selected Financial Data  
    23 

Item 7.  
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    23 

Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    23    

Item 8.  
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    23 

Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    23 

Item 9A.  
     Controls and Procedures  
    23 

Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
    24 

Part III  
     Item 10.  
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    24 

Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
    25 

Item 12.  
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    25 

Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    25    

Item 14.  
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    26 

Part IV  
     Item 15.  
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    26 

i 

       Table of Contents  

   PART I 
    
             Item 1. 
    Business. 
       
  General 
    
  Originally organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of California, our company was reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in 1986 in the State of Delaware.  As used herein, the term  Caterpillar,   we,   us,   our,  or  the company  refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise. 
    
  Overview 
    
  With 2013 sales and revenues of $55.656 billion, Caterpillar is the world s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives.  The company principally operates through its three product segments - Resource Industries, Construction Industries, and Power Systems - and also provides financing and related services through its Financial Products segment.  Caterpillar is also a leading U.S. exporter.  Through a global network of independent dealers and direct sales of certain products, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with customers around the world. 
    
  Currently, we have five operating segments, of which four are reportable segments and are described below.  Further information about our reportable segments, including geographic information, appears in Note 23    Segment information  of Exhibit 13. 
    
  Categories of Business Organization 
    
  1.                     Machinery and Power Systems     Represents the aggregate total of Construction Industries, Resource Industries, Power Systems and the All Other segment and related corporate items and eliminations. 
    
  2.                     Financial Products     Primarily includes the company s Financial Products Segment.  This category includes Cat Financial, Caterpillar Financial Insurance Services (Insurance Services) and their respective subsidiaries. 
    
  Other information about our operations in 2013, including certain risks associated with our operations, is incorporated by reference from our  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Exhibit 13. 
    
  Construction Industries 
    
  Our Construction Industries segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in infrastructure and building construction applications.  The majority of machine sales in this segment are made in the heavy construction, general construction, mining and quarry and aggregates markets.  Although the worldwide construction industry in 2013 was depressed from a historical standpoint, it showed some signs of improvement as the year progressed and order rates improved.  Construction Industries  sales declined slightly in 2013 from 2012.  Over half of the sales decrease was due to the unfavorable impact of currency primarily from a weaker Japanese yen.  In addition, volume was lower primarily from changes in dealer machine inventory.  In 2013, our sales declined in EAME and Asia/Pacific while North America and Latin America were about flat.    
    
  Customer demand for construction machinery has generally been characterized over the past decade by a shift from developed to developing economies.  Customers in developing economies often prioritize purchase price in making their investment decisions, while customers in developed economies generally weigh productivity and other performance criteria that contribute to lower lifetime owning and operating costs of a machine.  In response to increased demand in developing economies, Caterpillar has developed differentiated product offerings that target customers in those markets, including our SEM brand machines.  We believe that these customer-driven product innovations enable us to compete more effectively in developing economies.  In those developed economies that are subject to diesel engine emission requirements, we continued our multi-year roll out of products designed to meet those requirements.  We believe that these products have been well-received by our customers and are providing us a competitive advantage.   
    
  In order to better align our regional production capacity with customer demand, we began production in 2013 at our Rayong, Thailand and Athens, Georgia USA facilities.  Given the uncertainty in the global economy, we slowed other capacity increases and reduced production rates at several facilities during 2013.  We also conducted targeted marketing programs to reduce inventory in certain markets, including China.   
    1 

     Table of Contents  

The competitive environment for construction machinery is characterized by some global competitors and many regional and specialized local competitors.  Examples of global competitors include Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of the Volvo Group), CNH Global Industrial N.V., Deere   Company, Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. Ltd., J.C. Bamford Excavators Ltd., Doosan Infracore Co. Ltd., and Hyundai Construction Equipment (part of Hyundai Heavy Industries).  As an example of regional and local competitors, our competitors in China also include Guangxi LiuGong Machinery Co. Ltd., Longking Holdings Ltd., Sany Heavy Industry Co. Ltd., Xiamen XGMA Machinery Co. Ltd., XCMG Group, The Shandong Heavy Industry Group Co., Ltd.  (Shantui Construction Machinery Co. Ltd.), Strong Construction Machinery Co. Ltd., and  Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co. Ltd.  (part of  Volvo Group).  Each of these companies has varying product lines that compete with Caterpillar products, and each has varying degrees of regional focus. 
    
  The Construction Industries product portfolio includes the following machines and related parts: 
    
                                                backhoe loaders 
      
                           compact wheel loaders 
      
                           small track-type tractors 
                             small wheel loaders 
      
                           track-type loaders 
      
           medium track-type tractors 
                             skid steer loaders 
      
                           mini excavators 
      
                           select work tools 
                             multi-terrain loaders 
      
                           small, medium and large track excavators 
      
                           motor graders 
             medium wheel loaders 
      
                           wheel excavators 

compact track loaders 
      
           pipelayers 

Resource Industries 
    
  The Resource Industries segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in mine and quarry applications.  As a result of the acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc. (Bucyrus) in July 2011, Caterpillar is able to offer mining customers the broadest product range in the industry. Resource Industries continues to transition the former Bucyrus distribution business to the independent Caterpillar dealers who support mining customers, with nineteen dealer transactions completed during the year.  In 2013, Resource Industries also served forestry, paving, tunneling, industrial and waste customers.  Due to an internal reorganization, these products were reorganized out of Resource Industries effective January 1, 2014 and is now included in the All Other operating segments.   
    
  Resource Industries sales declined significantly in 2013, almost all from lower sales volume attributable to declines in dealer inventories and lower end-user demand.  Although production of most mined commodities is near or above a year ago, mining customers in all geographic regions reduced capital spending which resulted in lower demand for our mining products.  Dealers also reduced machine inventories during the year to better align their inventory levels with expected demand.  Cost management was a key element of Resource Industries  strategy in 2013.  The significant decline in sales resulted in substantial actions to lower production, cost and employment.  Actions taken during the year included temporary plant shutdowns, global workforce reductions, temporary layoffs of salaried and management employees, reductions in program and discretionary spending and substantially lower incentive pay.  In order to be well-positioned when the mining industry improves, we are continuing our efforts to reduce costs, but are not expecting to make substantial changes in physical capacity. 
    
  The competitive environment for Resource Industries consists of a few larger global competitors that compete in several of the markets that we serve and a substantial number of smaller companies that compete in a more limited range of products, applications, and regional markets.  Our global competitors include Komatsu Ltd., Joy Global Inc., Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of Volvo Group), Atlas Copco, Sandvik Mining, Wirtgen, and Deere   Co.  A number of Chinese companies are active in the mid-tier market, including LiuGong Machinery Co., Ltd., XCMG Group and Zhengzhou Coal Mining Machinery Group Co., Ltd.  
    
    2 

     Table of Contents  

The Resource Industries product portfolio includes the following machines and related parts: 
    
                                              electric rope shovels 
      
                           large track-type tractors 
      
                           wheel tractor scrapers 
                             draglines 
      
                           large mining trucks 
      
                           wheel dozers 
                             hydraulic shovels 
      
                           longwall miners 
      
                           machinery components 
                             drills 
      
                           large wheel loaders 
      
                           electronics and control systems 
                             highwall miners 
      
                           off-highway trucks 

hard rock vehicles 
      
                           articulated trucks 

Power Systems 
    
  Our Power Systems segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers using reciprocating engines, turbines and related parts across industries serving electric power, industrial, petroleum and marine applications as well as rail-related businesses.    
    
  In September 2013, we acquired Johan Walter Berg AB (Berg). Berg is a leading manufacturer of mechanically and electrically driven propulsion systems and marine controls for ships. Headquartered in  cker  Islands, Sweden, Berg has designed and manufactured heavy-duty marine thrusters and controllable pitch propellers since 1929. Its proprietary systems are employed in maritime applications throughout the world that require precise maneuvering and positioning. With the acquisition, Caterpillar will transition from selling only engines and generators to providing complete marine propulsion package systems.      Sales of engines decreased in 2013, primarily due to lower volume in electric power, petroleum and rail applications.  Power Systems remains focused on increasing its product offerings and further integrating its products and services to provide complete systems and solutions to its customers. 
    
  Regulatory emissions standards of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and similar standards in other developed economies have required us to make significant investments in research and development that will continue as new products are phased in over the next several years.  This new product introduction process is the most extensive in our history.  We believe that our emissions technology provides a competitive advantage in connection with emissions standards compliance and performance. 
    
  The competitive environment for reciprocating engines in marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agriculture and electric power generation systems along with turbines consists of a few larger global competitors that compete in a variety of markets that Caterpillar serves, and a substantial number of smaller companies that compete in a limited-size product range, geographic region and/or application.  Principal global competitors include Cummins Inc., Rolls-Royce Power System AG (formerly Tognum AG), GE Oil   Gas, GE Power   Water, Deutz AG and Wartsila Corp.  Other competitors, such as MAN Diesel   Turbo SE, Siemens Energy, Rolls-Royce Energy, Rolls-Royce Marine, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., Volvo Penta (part of Volvo Group), Weichai Power Co., Ltd., Kirloskar Oil Engines Limited and other emerging market competitors compete in certain markets in which Caterpillar competes. An additional set of competitors, including Generac Power Systems, Inc., Kohler Co., Aggreko PLC and others, are packagers who source engines and/or other components from domestic and international suppliers and market products regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution channels.  In rail-related businesses, our global competitors include GE Transportation, Vossloh AG, Siemens AG and Alstom Transport, and Voestalpine AG.  We also compete with other companies on a more limited range of products, services and/or geographic regions. 
    
  The Power Systems product portfolio includes the following: 

reciprocating engine powered generator sets 
                
    reciprocating engines supplied to the industrial industry as well as Caterpillar machinery 
                
    integrated systems used in the electric power generation industry 
                
    turbines and turbine-related services 
                
    reciprocating engines and integrated systems and solutions for the marine and petroleum industries 
                
    diesel-electric locomotives and components and other rail-related products and services 

3 

     Table of Contents  

Financial Products Segment 
    
  The business of our Financial Products segment is primarily conducted by Cat Financial, a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Caterpillar.  Cat Financial s primary business is to provide retail and wholesale financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers and dealers around the world.  Retail financing is primarily comprised of the financing of Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines. Cat Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products. In addition to retail financing, Cat Financial provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers and purchases short-term receivables from Caterpillar and its subsidiaries. The various financing plans offered by Cat Financial are primarily designed to increase the opportunity for sales of Caterpillar products and generate financing income for Cat Financial.  A significant portion of Cat Financial s activities is conducted in North America.  Cat Financial also has additional offices and subsidiaries in Asia/Pacific, Europe and Latin America. 
    
  For over 30 years, Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends, product structuring and customer needs. 
    
  In certain instances, Cat Financial s operations are subject to supervision and regulation by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate credit granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require disclosures to customers and investors, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection, foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use and reporting of information related to a borrower s credit experience.  Cat Financial s ability to comply with these and other governmental and legal requirements and restrictions affects its operations. 
    
  Cat Financial s retail leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 53 percent*) include: 

Tax leases that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the lease.  For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner of the equipment (15 percent*). 

Finance (non-tax) leases, where the lessee for tax purposes is considered to be the owner of the equipment during the term of the lease, that either require or allow the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price at the end of the term (19 percent*). 

Installment sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structure payments over time (18 percent*). 

Governmental lease-purchase plans in the U.S. that offer low interest rates and flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1 percent*). 
       
  Cat Financial s wholesale notes receivable, finance leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 14 percent*) include: 

Inventory/rental programs, which provide assistance to dealers by financing their new Caterpillar inventory and rental fleets (5 percent*). 

Short-term receivables Cat Financial purchased from Caterpillar at a discount (9 percent*). 
       
  Cat Financial s retail notes receivables (33 percent*) include: 

Loans that allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment or other assets as collateral to obtain financing. 
       
  _________________________________ 
  *Indicates the percentage of Cat Financial s total portfolio at December 31, 2013.  We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat Financial s concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 6    Cat Financial Financing Activities  of Exhibit 13. 
    
  Cat Financial operates in a highly competitive environment, with financing for users of Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. Cat Financial s competitors include Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc., General Electric Capital Corporation and various other banks and finance companies.  In  
    4 

     Table of Contents  

   addition, many of our manufacturing competitors own financial subsidiaries such as Volvo Financial Services, Komatsu Financial L.P. and John Deere Capital Corporation that utilize below-market interest rate programs (funded by the manufacturer) to assist machine sales.  Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide a broad array of financial merchandising programs around the world to meet these competitive offers. 
    
  Cat Financial s financial results are largely dependent upon the ability of Caterpillar dealers to sell equipment and customers  willingness to enter into financing or leasing agreements.  It is also affected by, among other things, the availability of funds from its financing sources, general economic conditions such as inflation and market interest rates and its cost of funds relative to its competitors. 
    
  Cat Financial has a  match funding  policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of its receivables portfolio (loans and leases with customers and dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis.  In connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with a similar interest rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds.  For more information regarding match funding, please see Note 3    Derivative financial instruments and risk management  of Exhibit 13.  See also the risk factors on pages 9 through 19 for general risks associated with our financial products business included in Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. 
    
  In managing foreign currency risk for Cat Financial s operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions, and future transactions denominated in foreign currencies.  This policy allows the use of foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts to offset the risk of currency mismatch between the receivable and debt portfolios, and exchange rate risk associated with future transactions denominated in foreign currencies.  Substantially all such foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts are undesignated. 
    
  Cat Financial provides financing only when certain criteria are met. Credit decisions are based on, among other factors, the customer s credit history, financial strength and intended use of equipment.  Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage on financed equipment.  Cat Financial finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers  sales and inventory of Caterpillar equipment throughout the world.  Cat Financial s competitive position is improved by marketing programs offered in conjunction with Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers.  Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the dealer, funds an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the financing.  We believe that these marketing programs provide Cat Financial a significant competitive advantage in financing Caterpillar products. 
    
  Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Insurance Services, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance.  Caterpillar Insurance Company is licensed to conduct property and casualty insurance business in 50 states and the District of Columbia and, as such, is also regulated in those jurisdictions.  The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and monitors Caterpillar Insurance Company s financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  Caterpillar Insurance Company is also licensed to conduct insurance business through a branch in Zurich, Switzerland and, as such, is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority. 
    
  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company is licensed to conduct life and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of Columbia and, as such, is also regulated in those jurisdictions. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary Employees  Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of salaried retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA. 
    
  Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Insurance Services, is a captive insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority.  Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance Amendment Act of 1995), which primarily insures its parent and affiliates. The Bermuda Monetary Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of monitoring compliance with solvency requirements. 
    
  Caterpillar Product Services Corporation (CPSC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company domiciled in Missouri.  CPSC previously conducted a machine extended service contract program in Germany and France by providing  
    5 

     Table of Contents  

   machine extended warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in Germany and France.  The program was discontinued effective January 1, 2013, though CPSC continues to provide extended warranty reimbursement protection under existing contracts. 
    
  Caterpillar Insurance Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Insurance Services, is a Tennessee insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.  It provides brokerage services for all property and casualty and life and health lines of business. 
    
  Caterpillar s insurance group provides protection for claims under the following programs: 

Contractual Liability Insurance to Caterpillar and its affiliates, Caterpillar dealers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for extended service contracts (parts and labor) offered by Caterpillar, third party dealers and OEMs. 

Cargo insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar products. 

Contractors  Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by Caterpillar or OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party dealers to customers. 

General liability, employer s liability, auto liability and property insurance for Caterpillar. 

Retiree Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the VEBA. 

Brokerage services for property and casualty and life and health business. 
       
     Acquisitions    
    
  Information related to acquisitions appears in Note 24    Acquisitions  of Exhibit 13. 
    
  Competitive Environment 
    
  Caterpillar products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of highly competitive markets.  In all markets, we compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price.  From time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a particular industry or region.  Such price discounting puts pressure on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. Outside the United States, certain of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to operating in their home countries or regions. 
    
  Raw Materials and Component Products 
    
  We source our raw materials and manufactured components from suppliers both domestically and internationally. These purchases include unformed materials and rough and finished parts.  Unformed materials include a variety of steel products, which are then cut or formed to shape and machined in our facilities. Rough parts include various sized steel and iron castings and forgings, which are machined to final specification levels inside our facilities. Finished parts are ready to assemble components, which are made either to Caterpillar specifications or to the supplier developed specifications.  We machine and assemble some of the components used in our machines, engines and power generation units and to support our after-market dealer parts sales. We also purchase various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and product development processes.  We maintain global strategic sourcing models to meet our global facilities  production needs while building long-term supplier relationships and leveraging enterprise spend.  We expect our suppliers to maintain, at all times, industry-leading levels of quality and the ability to timely deliver raw materials and component products for our machine and engine products.  We use a variety of agreements with suppliers to protect our intellectual property and processes to monitor and mitigate risks of the supply base causing a business disruption.  The risks monitored include supplier financial viability, the ability to increase or decrease production levels, business continuity, quality and delivery. 
    
  Order Backlog 
    
  The dollar amount of backlog believed to be firm was approximately $18.0 billion, $20.2 billion and $29.8 billion at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The order backlog declined significantly for mining-related products within Resource Industries and declined slightly for Power Systems.  These declines were partially offset by a substantial increase in Construction Industries. In 2012, the decline occurred in Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Power Systems, with  
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   the most significant decrease in Resource Industries.  Although dealer deliveries to end users were higher in 2012 compared to 2011, Cat dealers lowered their order rates well below end-user demand to reduce their inventories.  Of the total backlog, approximately $3.0 billion, $4.5 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, was not expected to be filled in the following year.  
    
  Dealers and Distributors 
    
  Our machines are distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network), 48 located in the United States and 130 located outside the United States, serving 182 countries and operating 3,454 places of business, including 1,202 dealer rental outlets.  Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in their products. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by our subsidiary Perkins Engines Company Limited (Perkins), are also sold through its worldwide network of 100 distributors located in 180 countries. Most of the electric power generation systems manufactured by our subsidiary Caterpillar Northern Ireland Limited, formerly known as F.G. Wilson Engineering Limited, are sold through its worldwide network of 264 distributors located in 145 countries.  Some of the large, medium speed reciprocating engines are also sold under the MaK brand through a worldwide network of 19 distributors located in 130 countries. 
    
  Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers  principal business.  Turbines, locomotives and certain global mining products are sold directly to end customers through sales forces employed by the company.  At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives.   
    
  While the large majority of our worldwide dealers are independently owned and operated, we own and operate three dealerships in Japan: Caterpillar East Japan Ltd., Caterpillar West Japan Ltd. and Caterpillar Tohoku Ltd. (Cat Tohoku) in the North.  We are currently operating these Japanese dealers directly and their results are reported in the Construction Industries segment.  There are also three independent dealers in the Southern Region of Japan. 
    
  For Caterpillar branded products, the company s relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard sales and service agreement.  Pursuant to this agreement, the company grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the products in a specified geographic service territory.  Prices to dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on transactional pricing in the marketplace.  The company also agrees to defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support to the dealer.  The agreement further grants the dealer a non-exclusive license to use the company s trademarks, service marks and brand names.  In some instances, a separate trademark agreement exists between the company and a dealer. 
    
  In exchange for these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale of the company s products to current and prospective customers in the dealer s service territory.  Each dealer agrees to employ adequate sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company s products, demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company s product improvement programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe operation of any of the company s products and maintain detailed books and records of the dealer s financial condition, sales and inventories and make these books and records available at the company s reasonable request. 
    
  These sales and service agreements are terminable at will by either party primarily upon 90 days written notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking protection from creditors. 
    
  Patents and Trademarks 
    
  Our products are sold primarily under the brands  Caterpillar,   CAT,  design versions of  CAT  and  Caterpillar,   Electro-Motive,   FG Wilson,   MaK,   MWM,   Perkins,   Progress Rail,   SEM  and  Solar Turbines.  We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we manufacture and the services we provide.  These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future.  We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. 
    
    7 

     Table of Contents  

   Research and Development 
    
  We have always placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to the development of new or improved machines, engines and major components.  In 2013, 2012 and 2011, we spent $2,046 million, $2,466 million and  $2,297 million, or 3.7, 3.7, and 3.8 percent of our sales and revenues, respectively, on our research and development programs.  Research and development expense is expected to increase about 7 percent in 2014. 
    
  Employment 
    
  As of December 31, 2013, we employed 118,501 persons of whom 66,624 were located outside the United States.  We build and maintain a productive, motivated workforce by striving to treat all employees fairly and equitably. 
    
  In the United States, most of our 51,877 employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or agreement.  At select business units, certain highly specialized employees have been hired under employment contracts that specify a term of employment and specify pay and other benefits. 
    
  As of December 31, 2013, there were 11,284 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions.  The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) represents 7,460 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement that expires on March 1, 2017.  The International Association of Machinists (IAM) represents 1,694 employees under labor agreements that will expire on May 17, 2015 and April 30, 2018.  The United Steelworkers (USW) represents 741 employees under labor agreements that will expire on April 30, 2015, August 19, 2018 and April 30, 2019.  
    
  Outside the United States, the company enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary.  The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. 
    
  Sales and Revenues 
    
  Sales and revenues outside the United States were 67 percent of consolidated sales and revenues for 2013, 69 percent for 2012 and 70 percent for 2011. 
    
  Environmental Matters 
    
  The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. We have made, and will continue to make, significant research and development and capital expenditures to comply with these emissions standards. 
    
  We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the investigation, remediation, and operating and maintenance costs are accrued against our earnings.  Costs are accrued based on consideration of currently available data and information with respect to each individual site, including available technologies, current applicable laws and regulations, and prior remediation experience.  Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, we accrue the minimum.  Where multiple potentially responsible parties are involved, we consider our proportionate share of the probable costs.  In formulating the estimate of probable costs, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others.  We reassess these accrued amounts on a quarterly basis.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in the line item "Accrued expenses" in Statement 3 -- "Consolidated Financial Position at December 31" of Exhibit 13.  There is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all the sites in the aggregate, will be required.   
    
  Available Information 
    
  The company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act); and registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and other forms or reports as required.  The public may read and copy any materials the company has filed with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the  
    8 

     Table of Contents  

   Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The company maintains an Internet site (www.Caterpillar.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge through our Internet site (www.Caterpillar.com/secfilings) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Copies of our board committee charters, our board s Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct and other corporate governance information are available on our Internet site (www.Caterpillar.com/governance).  The information contained on the company s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. 
    
  Additional company information may be obtained as follows: 
    
  Current information - 

phone our Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 764-9492 (outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of Caterpillar s latest financial results and current outlook, or to request a copy of results by facsimile or mail 
                
    request, view or download materials on-line or register for email alerts at www.Caterpillar.com/materialsrequest 
       
  Historical information - 

view/download on-line at www.Caterpillar.com/historical 
       
             Item 1A. 
    Risk Factors. 
       
  The statements in this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.  In addition, the statements in this section and other sections of this Form 10-K, including in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 13, include  forward-looking statements  as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results.  Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events about the company or our outlook.  You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by the use of words such as  believe,   expect,   estimate,   anticipate,   will be,   should,   plan,   project,   intend,   could  and similar words or expressions. 
    
  Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and on known risks and uncertainties. Although we believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, any or all of our forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate, and we can make no guarantees about our future performance.  Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. 
    
  We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should, however, consult any subsequent disclosures we make in our filings with the SEC on Form 10-Q or Form 8-K. 
    
  The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. It is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. 
    
  Our business is highly sensitive to global economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries we serve. 
    
  Our results of operations are materially affected by economic conditions globally and in the particular industries we serve.  The demand for our products and services tends to be cyclical and can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower levels of government and business investment.  A prolonged period of slow growth may also reduce demand for our products and services.  Economic conditions vary across regions and countries, and demand for our products generally increases in those regions and  
    9 

     Table of Contents  

   countries experiencing economic growth and investment.  A change in the global mix of regions and countries experiencing economic growth and investment could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  The energy and mining industries are major users of our products, including the coal, iron ore, gold, copper, oil and natural gas industries.  Decisions to purchase our products are dependent upon the performance of these industries, which in turn are dependent in part on commodity prices.  Increases in demand or output in these industries may lead to increases in demand for our products.  Conversely, if demand or output in these industries declines, the demand for our products will generally decrease.  Prices of commodities in these industries are frequently volatile and change in response to general economic conditions, economic growth, government actions, regulatory actions, commodity inventories and any disruptions in production or distribution.  We assume certain prices for key commodities in preparing our general economic and financial outlooks (outlooks).  Commodity prices lower than those assumed in our outlooks may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Economic conditions affecting the industries we serve may in the future also lead to reduced capital expenditures by our customers.  Reduced capital expenditures by our customers are likely to lead to a decrease in the demand for our products.   
    
  The rates of infrastructure spending, housing starts and commercial construction also play a significant role in our results.  Our products are an integral component of these activities, and as these activities decrease inside or outside of the United States, demand for our products may be significantly impacted, which could negatively impact our results.  Slower rates of economic growth than anticipated in our outlooks could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies may negatively impact our results  . 
    
  Most countries have established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic activities, generally by adjusting interest rates.  Interest rate changes affect overall economic growth, which affects demand for residential and nonresidential structures, as well as energy and mined products, which in turn affects sales of our products that serve these activities.  Interest rate changes also affect our customers  ability to finance machine purchases, can change the optimal time to keep machines in a fleet and can impact the ability of our suppliers to finance the production of parts and components necessary to manufacture and support our products.  Our outlooks typically include assumptions about interest rates in a number of countries.  Interest rates higher than those contained in our assumptions could result in lower sales than anticipated and supply chain inefficiencies. 
    
  Central banks and other policy arms of many countries take actions to vary the amount of liquidity and credit available in an economy.  Liquidity and credit policies different from those assumed in our outlooks could impact the customers and markets we serve or our suppliers, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Changes in monetary and fiscal policies, along with other factors, may cause currency exchange rates to fluctuate.  Actions that lead the currency exchange rate of a country where we manufacture products to increase relative to other currencies could reduce the competitiveness of products made in that country, which could adversely affect our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Government policies on taxes and spending also affect our business.  Throughout the world, government spending finances a significant portion of infrastructure development, such as highways, airports, sewer and water systems and dams.  Tax regulations determine depreciation lives and the amount of money users of our products can retain, both of which influence investment decisions.  Unfavorable developments, such as declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public spending or increases in taxes, could negatively impact our results. 
    
  Commodity price changes, component price increases, fluctuations in demand for our products or significant shortages of component products may adversely impact our financial results or our ability to meet commitments to customers. 
    
  We are a significant user of steel and many other commodities required for the manufacture of our products.  Unanticipated increases in the prices of such commodities would increase our costs, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. 
    
  We rely on suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the manufacture of our products.  A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of components or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs.  On the other hand, if demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience excess inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer.  Our business, competitive position, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively  
    10 

     Table of Contents  

   impacted if supply is insufficient for our operations.  Our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted if we experience excess inventories or we are unable to adjust our production schedules or our purchases from suppliers to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations on a timely basis.   
    
  Disruptions or volatility in global financial markets could limit our sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers. 
    
  Global economic conditions may cause volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets.  Although we have generated funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses, fund our capital expenditures and support growth, fund our employee retirement benefit programs, pay dividends and buy back stock, continuing to meet these cash requirements over the long-term requires substantial liquidity and access to varied sources of funds, including capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in the markets that we serve, and the success of plans to manage cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations.  Market volatility, changes in counterparty credit risk, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may also adversely impact our ability to access capital and credit markets to fund operating needs.  Global or regional economic downturns could cause financial markets to decrease the availability of liquidity, credit and credit capacity for certain issuers, including certain of our customers, dealers and suppliers. An inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 
    
  In addition, demand for our products generally depends on customers  ability to pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on their access to funds. Subject to global economic conditions, customers may experience increased difficulty in generating funds from operations.  Capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty may cause financial institutions to revise their lending standards, thereby decreasing access to capital. If capital and credit market volatility occurs, customers  liquidity may decline which, in turn, would reduce their ability to purchase our products. 
    
  Our global operations are exposed to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate. 
    
  Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in countries with political and economic instability.  In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than in our other markets.  Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products.  Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes us to a number of risks, including: 

multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change; 

imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints; 

imposition of burdensome tariffs or quotas; 

national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and 

political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries. 
       
  The occurrence of one or more of these events may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Failure to maintain our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. 
    
   Each of Caterpillar s and Cat Financial s costs of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt ratings assigned to their respective debt by the major credit rating agencies.  These ratings are based, in significant part, on  each of Caterpillar s and Cat Financial s performance as measured by financial metrics such as net worth and interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting.  There can be no assurance that Caterpillar or Cat Financial will be able to maintain their credit ratings and the failure of either Caterpillar or Cat Financial to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity,  
    11 

     Table of Contents  

   competitive position and access to the capital markets, including restricting, in whole or in part, our access to the commercial paper market.  There can be no assurance that the commercial paper market will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing for Cat Financial or an available source of short-term financing for Caterpillar.  An inability to access the capital markets could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Our Financial Products segment is subject to risks associated with the financial services industry. 
    
  Cat Financial is significant to our operations and provides financing support to a significant share of our global sales. The inability of Cat Financial to access funds to support its financing activities to our customers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Continuing to meet Cat Financial's cash requirements over the long-term could require substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including capital and credit markets.  Cat Financial has continued to maintain access to key global medium term note and commercial paper markets, but there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to represent a reliable source of financing.  If global economic conditions were to deteriorate, Cat Financial could face materially higher financing costs, become unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow its business and/or meet its debt service obligations as they mature, and be required to draw upon contractually committed lending agreements and/or by seeking other funding sources. However, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that such agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient.  Any of these events could negatively impact Cat Financial s business, as well as our and Cat Financial's results of operations and financial condition.   
    
  Market disruption and volatility may also lead to a number of other risks in connection with these events, including but not limited to: 

Market developments that may affect customer confidence levels and cause declines in the demand for financing and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could impact Cat Financial s write-offs and provision for credit losses. 

The process Cat Financial uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires a high degree of management s judgment regarding numerous subjective qualitative factors, including forecasts of economic conditions and how economic predictors might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans.  Financial market disruption and volatility may impact the accuracy of these judgments. 

Cat Financial s ability to engage in routine funding transactions or borrow from other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. 

As Cat Financial s counterparties are primarily financial institutions, their ability to perform in accordance with any of its underlying agreements could be adversely affected by market volatility and/or disruptions in financial markets. 
       
  Changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions could adversely affect Cat Financial's and our earnings and/or cash flow. 
    
  Changes in interest rates and market liquidity conditions could have an adverse effect on Cat Financial's and our earnings and cash flows.  Because a significant number of the loans made by Cat Financial are made at fixed interest rates, its business is subject to fluctuations in interest rates.  Changes in market interest rates may influence its financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce its and our earnings and cash flows.  Although Cat Financial manages interest rate and market liquidity risks through a variety of techniques, including a match funding program, the selective use of derivatives and a broadly diversified funding program, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in interest rates and market liquidity conditions will not have an adverse effect on its and our earnings and cash flows.  If any of the variety of instruments and strategies Cat Financial uses to hedge its exposure to these types of risk is ineffective, we may incur losses. With respect to Insurance Services' investment activities, changes in the equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of its investment portfolio, requiring a negative adjustment to earnings. 
    
  An increase in delinquencies, repossessions or net losses of Cat Financial customers could adversely affect its results. 
    
  Inherent in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its customers.  The creditworthiness of each customer and the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the  
    12 

     Table of Contents  

   customer's management team, commodity prices, political events and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. Any increase in delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations could have a material adverse effect on Cat Financial's and our earnings and cash flows.  In addition, although Cat Financial evaluates and adjusts its allowance for credit losses related to past due and non-performing receivables on a regular basis, adverse economic conditions or other factors that might cause deterioration of the financial health of its customers could change the timing and level of payments received and thus necessitate an increase in Cat Financial's estimated losses, which could also have a material adverse effect on Cat Financial's and our earnings and cash flows. 
    
  New regulations or changes in financial services regulation could adversely impact Caterpillar and Cat Financial. 
    
  Cat Financial s operations are highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business.  In the U.S., for example, Cat Financial s operations are subject to the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank).  Dodd-Frank was signed into law in July 2010 and includes extensive provisions regulating the financial services industry.  Many of the regulations implementing the derivatives provisions of Dodd-Frank became effective in 2013 and additional requirements will become effective in 2014. As such, Cat Financial has become and could continue to become subject to additional regulatory costs both directly and indirectly, through increased costs of doing business with more marketing intermediaries that are now subject to extensive regulation pursuant to Dodd-Frank. For example, derivatives dealers may seek to pass to us the cost of any margin, capital or other regulatory requirements that they are subject to under Dodd-Frank. As the regulatory regime is still developing and important additional regulations have yet to be adopted, the ultimate costs of Dodd-Frank on Cat Financial s business remain uncertain. However, such costs could be significant     and have an adverse effect on Cat Financial's and our results of operations and financial condition.  Additional regulations in the U.S. or internationally impacting the financial services industry could also add significant cost or operational constraints that might have an adverse effect on Cat Financial's and our results of operations and financial condition.   
    
  We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures, or these benefits may take longer to realize than expected. 
    
  In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures.  We often compete with others for the same opportunities. To be successful, we conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete complex transactions and manage post-closing matters such as the integration of acquired businesses.  Our due diligence reviews are subject to the completeness and accuracy of disclosures made by third parties.  We may incur unanticipated costs or expenses following a completed acquisition, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. 
    
  The risks associated with our past or future acquisitions also include the following: 

the business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture; 

technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected; 

unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions may be imposed upon the acquisition, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents; 

we may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities or be subject to unexpected penalties or other enforcement actions; 

faulty assumptions may be made regarding the integration process; 

unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations, processes and systems; 

higher than expected investments may be required to implement necessary compliance processes and related systems, including IT systems, accounting systems and internal controls over financial reporting; 

we may fail to retain, motivate and integrate key management and other employees of the acquired business; 

higher than expected costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations; and 
       13 

     Table of Contents  

we may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases. 
       
  Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management s time and attention.  They may also delay the realization of the benefits we anticipate when we enter into a transaction.   
    
  In order to conserve cash for operations, we may undertake acquisitions financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements.  Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures.  If we issue equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. 
    
  Failure to implement our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, we make strategic divestitures from time to time, including the ongoing divestiture of the Bucyrus distribution business to our independent dealers.  In the case of divestitures, we may agree to indemnify acquiring parties for certain liabilities arising from our former businesses.  These divestitures may also result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, including through guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction.  Lower performance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results. 
    
  International trade policies may impact demand for our products and our competitive position. 
    
  Government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries.  The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries where we sell large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  For example, a government s adoption of  buy national  policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 
    
  The success of our business depends on our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers  needs. 
    
  Our business relies on continued global demand for our brands and products.  To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers, OEMs and customers.  This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to maintain key dealer relationships, our ability to produce products that meet the quality, performance and price expectations of our customers and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs.  In addition, our continued success in selling products that appeal to our customers is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations, and on the availability and effectiveness of legal protection for our innovation.  Failure to continue to deliver high quality, innovative, competitive products to the marketplace, to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, to supply products that meet applicable regulatory requirements, including EPA Tier 4 Interim and Tier 4 Final diesel engine emission requirements and equivalent standards in the EU, Israel, Japan and Canada (Tier 4), or to predict market demands for, or gain market acceptance of, our products, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  We operate in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our sales and pricing. 
    
  We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales based on our ability to compete with others in the marketplace.  We compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price.  There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with other companies  products.  Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively, our failure to produce our products at a competitive cost or an unexpected buildup in competitors  new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment prices. 
    
  Our sales outlook assumes that certain price increases we announce from time to time will be realized in the marketplace.  Changes in market acceptance of price increases, changes in market requirements for price discounts, changes in our competitors  behavior or a weak pricing environment attributable to industry overcapacity could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    14 

     Table of Contents  

In addition, our results and ability to compete may be impacted negatively by changes in our sales mix.  Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a certain product mix of sales.  If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted. 
    
  We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from cost-reduction initiatives, cash flow improvement initiatives and efficiency or productivity initiatives. 
    
  We are actively engaged in a number of initiatives to increase our productivity, efficiency and cash flow and to reduce costs, which we expect to have a positive effect on our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition.  For example, we formed the Caterpillar Enterprise System Group in 2013 to implement sustained improvements in our operational efficiency and order-to-delivery processes so that our lead time is better aligned with customer requirements, as well as to reduce waste, further enhance quality and maximize value for our customers.  We are also in the process of implementing a new operating system in many of our businesses to increase efficiency and harmonize our operations.  There can be no assurance that this operating system, these initiatives, or others will continue to be beneficial to the extent anticipated, or that the estimated efficiency improvements, incremental cost savings or cash flow improvements will be realized as anticipated or at all.  If our new operating system is not implemented successfully, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and competitive position. 
    
  We could incur additional restructuring charges as we continue to contemplate cost reduction actions in an effort to optimize our cost structure and may not achieve the anticipated savings and benefits of these actions. 
  In December 2013, we announced a restructuring plan for our Gosselies, Belgium operations in order to improve the competitiveness of our European manufacturing footprint.  We expect to incur significant separation-related charges in connection with this restructuring plan throughout 2014, which will reduce our profitability in the periods incurred.  In addition, we expect to take additional restructuring actions in 2014 to optimize our cost structure and improve the efficiency of our operation. As a result of these actions, we may incur additional charges, including but not limited to asset impairments, employee termination costs, charges for pension and other postretirement contractual benefits, potential additional pension funding obligations, and pension curtailments, any of which could be significant, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future cost reduction actions in full or in part or within the time periods we expect.  We are also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with our cost reduction actions. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our cost reduction actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. 
  Our business is subject to the inventory management decisions and sourcing practices of our dealers and our OEM customers. 
    
  We sell finished products through an independent dealer network and directly to OEMs and are subject to risks relating to their inventory management decisions and operational and sourcing practices.  Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs.  Such adjustments may impact our results positively or negatively.  If the inventory levels of our dealers and OEM customers are higher than they desire, they may postpone product purchases from us, which could cause our sales to be lower than the end-user demand for our products and negatively impact our results.  Similarly, our results could be negatively impacted through the loss of time-sensitive sales if our dealers and OEM customers do not maintain inventory levels sufficient to meet customer demand.  Additionally, some of our engine customers are OEMs that manufacture or could in the future manufacture engines for their own products.  Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products and in order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus.  However, there can be no assurance that these customers will continue to outsource engine manufacture in the future. Decreased levels of production outsourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers  business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries.  A significant reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and, accordingly, have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs. 
    
  Our facilities, operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment  
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. Some environmental laws impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of the release of hazardous substances, even for conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred, or for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators, predecessors or other third parties. Failure to comply with environmental laws could expose us to penalties or clean-up costs, civil or criminal liability and sanctions on certain of our activities, as well as damage to property or natural resources. These liabilities, sanctions, damages and remediation efforts related to any non-compliance with such laws and regulations could negatively impact our ability to conduct our operations and our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, there can be no assurances that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 
    
  Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing exhaust emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies in the United States and other regulatory agencies around the world. For instance, national, state or local governments may set new emissions standards that could impact our products and operations in ways that are difficult to anticipate with accuracy. Thus, significant changes in standards, or the adoption of new standards, have the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 
    
  Our global operations are subject to extensive trade and anti-corruption laws and regulations. 
    
  Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. regulations issued by Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as the counterparts of these agencies in other countries.  Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States.  Furthermore, embargoes and sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other governments prohibiting sales to specific persons or countries or based on product classification expose us to criminal and civil sanctions.  We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. 
    
  In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws.  Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations.  In addition, we enter into joint ventures with joint venture partners who are domiciled in areas of the world with laws, regulations and business practices that differ from those in the United States.  There is risk that our joint venture partners will violate applicable laws and regulations.  Violations of anti-corruption laws or regulations by our employees, by intermediaries acting on our behalf, or by our joint venture partners may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. 
    
  We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure. 
    
  We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions.  Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as, changes in tax laws and regulations.  We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities.  The results of audit and examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the company s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. 
    
  Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. 
    
  We conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies.  We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues.  In addition, because our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations.  While we customarily enter into financial transactions to address these risks, there can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  While the use of currency  
    16 

     Table of Contents  

   hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  In addition, our outlooks do not assume fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates from the date of our outlooks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in our outlooks and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
    
  We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. 
    
  Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could limit our financial and operating flexibility. 
    
  We maintain a number of credit facilities to support general corporate purposes (facilities) and have issued debt securities to manage liquidity and fund operations (debt securities).  The agreements relating to a number of the facilities and the debt securities contain certain restrictive covenants applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries, including Cat Financial.  These covenants include maintaining a consolidated net worth (defined as the consolidated stockholder s equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of not less than $9 billion, limitations on the incurrence of liens and certain restrictions on consolidation and merger. Cat Financial has also agreed under certain of these agreements to maintain a leverage ratio (consolidated debt to consolidated net worth, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31) not greater than 10.0 to 1, to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio (profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to interest expense, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended) of not less than 1.15 to 1 and not to terminate, amend or modify its support agreement with us. 
    
  A breach of one or more of the covenants could result in adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. These consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering of an obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders, refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities or the lowering or modification of our credit ratings or those of one or more of our subsidiaries. 
    
  Sustained increases in funding obligations under our pension plans may reduce our profitability. 
    
  We maintain certain defined benefit pension plans for our employees, which impose on us certain funding obligations. In determining our future payment obligations under the plans, we assume certain rates of return on the plan assets and growth rates of certain costs.  Significant adverse changes in credit or capital markets could result in actual rates of return being materially lower than projected and increased pension expense in future years.  We may be required to make contributions to our pension plans in the future, and these contributions could be material.  Our cost growth rates may also be materially higher than projected.  These factors could significantly increase our payment obligations under the plans, and as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Union disputes or other labor matters could adversely affect our operations and financial results  . 
    
  Some of our employees are represented by labor unions in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates.  There can be no assurance that any current or future issues with our employees will be resolved or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees.  We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements in the United States and other countries when they expire.  If we fail to renegotiate our existing collective bargaining agreements, we could encounter strikes or work stoppages or other types of conflicts with labor unions.  In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future.  We may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements.  A work stoppage or other limitations on production at our facilities for any reason could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, many of our customers and suppliers have unionized work forces.  Strikes or work stoppages experienced by our customers or suppliers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
    17 

     Table of Contents  

   Costs associated with lawsuits or investigations or increases in the reserves we establish based on our assessment of contingencies may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 
    
  We face an inherent business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits.  We are involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty and environmental claims and lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business.  The industries in which we operate are also periodically reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims.  It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period.  In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. 
    
  As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us.  Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 
    
  Additional carbon emissions constraints may impact our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. 
    
  The potential for government-mandated reductions of carbon emissions from our facilities and products is increasing.  Mandatory legislative, regulatory and/or policy-based constraints are being implemented or considered by many jurisdictions.  For example, the EPA has promulgated regulations governing carbon emissions from automobiles and heavy-duty on-highway diesel vehicles, which may lead to regulation of other mobile sources.  Although various attempts to pass comprehensive legislation reducing carbon emissions have been unsuccessful in the United States, the EPA has also proceeded with regulating carbon emissions from stationary sources under existing law.  The final details and scope of these various legislative, regulatory and policy measures around the world are unclear and their potential impact is still uncertain, so we cannot fully predict the impact on us.  However, should legislation or regulations be adopted imposing significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon us or our products, they could negatively impact our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. 
    
  Changes in accounting guidance could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. 
    
  Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded.  Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting guidance and related interpretations issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC.  Market conditions have prompted these organizations to issue new guidance that further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to various transactions as well as to issue new guidance expanding disclosures.  The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in this annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed.  It is possible that future accounting guidance we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, as reported in our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. 
    
  We rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties.  Additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to Caterpillar.  The secure operation of these information technology systems and networks, and the processing and maintenance of this data is critical to our business operations and strategy.  Information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication.  Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats.  These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data.  We have identified attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems and networks.  To our knowledge, no such attack was ultimately successful in exporting materially sensitive data or controlling materially sensitive systems or networks.  Should such an attack succeed it could expose us and our customers, dealers and suppliers to misuse of information  
    18 

     Table of Contents  

   or systems, the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions.  The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business and results of operations.  In addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. 
    
  Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. 
    
  The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather in the United States or in other countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.  Natural disasters, pandemic illness, equipment failures, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, disruption in the transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of our products to our distribution centers.  Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events. 
    
             Item 1B. 
    Unresolved Staff Comments. 
       
  None. 
    
             Item 1C. 
    Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

19 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 2. 
    Properties. 
       
  General Information 
  Caterpillar s operations are highly integrated.  Although the majority of our plants are involved primarily in production relating to our Construction Industries, Resource Industries or Power Systems segments, several plants are involved in manufacturing relating to more than one business segment.  In addition, several plants reported in our financial statements under the All Other segment are involved in the manufacturing of components that are used in the assembly of products for more than one business segment.  Caterpillar s parts distribution centers are involved in the storage and distribution of parts for Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Power Systems, and are included in the All Other segment.  The research and development activities carried on at our Technical Center in Mossville, Illinois involve products for Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Power Systems. 
    
  We believe the properties we own to be generally well maintained and adequate for present use.  Through planned capital expenditures, we expect these properties to remain adequate for future needs.  Properties we lease are covered by leases expiring over terms of generally one to ten years.  We do not anticipate any difficulty in retaining occupancy of any leased facilities, either by renewing leases prior to expiration or by replacing them with equivalent leased facilities. 
    
  Headquarters and Other Key Offices 
  Our corporate headquarters are in Peoria, Illinois.  Additional marketing and operating headquarters are located both inside and outside the United States including Miami, Florida; Oak Creek, Wisconsin; San Diego, California; Geneva, Switzerland; Beijing, China; Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Piracicaba, Brazil, and Tokyo, Japan.  Our Financial Products business is headquartered in leased offices located in Nashville, Tennessee. 
    
  Technical Center, Training Centers, Demonstration Areas and Proving Grounds 
  We operate a Technical Center located in Mossville, Illinois, and various other technical and training centers, demonstration areas and proving grounds located both inside and outside the United States. 
    
  Parts Distribution Centers 
  Distribution of our parts is conducted from parts distribution centers inside and outside the United States and included in the All Other segment in our financial statements.  We operate parts distribution centers in the following locations: Morton, Illinois; Arvin, California; Denver, Colorado; Miami, Florida; Atlanta, Georgia; St. Paul, Minnesota; Clayton, Ohio; York, Pennsylvania; Waco, Texas; Spokane, Washington; Melbourne, Australia; Grimbergen, Belgium; Piracicaba, Brazil; Shanghai, China; San Luis Potosi, Mexico; Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Moscow, Russia; Johannesburg, South Africa, and Dubai, United Arab Emirates.  We also own or lease other facilities that support our distribution activities. 
    
  Remanufacturing and Components 
  Component manufacturing and the remanufacturing of our products that is reported in the All Other segment is conducted primarily at facilities in the following locations: Toccoa, Georgia; Aurora, Illinois; Dixon, Illinois; East Peoria, Illinois; Peoria, Illinois; Franklin, Indiana; Danville, Kentucky; Menominee, Michigan; Corinth, Mississippi; Oxford, Mississippi; Prentiss County, Mississippi; Boonville, Missouri; West Plains, Missouri; Franklin, North Carolina;  Goldsboro, North Carolina; Morganton, North Carolina; West Fargo, North Dakota; Summerville, South Carolina; Sumter, South Carolina; Piracicaba, Brazil;  Shanghai, China; Tianjin, China; Xuzhou, China; Chaumont, France; Bazzano, Italy; Castelvetro, Italy; Frosinone, Italy; San Eusebio, Italy; Nuevo Laredo, Mexico; Ramos Arizpe, Mexico; Radom, Poland; Singapore; Pyongtaek, South Korea; Shrewsbury, United Kingdom, and Skinningrove, United Kingdom.  We also lease or own other facilities that support our remanufacturing and component manufacturing activities. 
    
  Manufacturing 
  Manufacturing of products for our Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Power Systems segments is conducted primarily at the locations listed below.  These facilities are believed to be suitable for their intended purposes, with adequate capacities for current and projected needs for existing products.  We have also announced investments to expand the capacity of a number of existing facilities and to build new facilities to support the company s growth. 
    
  Our principal manufacturing facilities include those used by the following segments in the following locations: 
    20 

       Table of Contents  

                        Segment 
      
    U.S. Facilities 
      
    Facilities Outside the U.S. 

Construction Industries 
      
    Illinois:    Aurora, Decatur, East Peoria 
      
    Brazil:   Campo Largo, Piracicaba 

North Carolina:   Clayton, Sanford 
      
    China:   Suzhou, Wujiang, Xuzhou, Qingzhou 

Texas:   Victoria 
      
    France:   Grenoble, Echirolles 

Georgia:    Athens 
      
    Hungary:    Godollo 

India:   Thiruvallar 

Indonesia:   Jakarta 

Japan:   Akashi, Sagamihara 

Poland:   Janow Sosnowiec 

Russia:   Tosno, Novosibirsk 

United Kingdom:   Desford, Stockton 

Thailand:    Rayong  

Resource Industries 
      
    Illinois:    Aurora, Decatur, East Peoria, Joliet 
      
    Australia:   Beresfield 

North Carolina  : Winston-Salem 
      
    Brazil:   Piracicaba 

Pennsylvania:   Houston 
      
    China:   Tongzhou, Wuxi, Xuzhou, Zhengzhou 

Tennessee:   Dyersburg 
      
    Czech Republic:   Ostrava 

Texas:   Denison 
      
    France:   Arras 

Virginia:   Hillsville, Pulaski 
      
    Germany:   Dortmund, Lunen 

West Virginia:   Beckley 
      
    India:    Hosur, Thiruvallur 

Wisconsin:   South Milwaukee 
      
    Indonesia:   Jakarta 

Italy:   Jesi 

Japan:   Sagamihara 

Mexico:   Acuna, Monterrey, Reynosa, Torreon 

Russia:   Tosno 

Thailand:   Rayong 

United Kingdom:   Peterlee, Wolverhampton 

Power Systems 
      
    Alabama:   Albertville, Montgomery 
      
    Belgium:   Gosselies 

California:    San Diego 
      
    Brazil:   Curitiba, Hortolandia, Piracicaba, Sete Lagoas 

Georgia:    Griffin 
      
    China  : Tianjin, Wuxi 

Illinois:   LaGrange, Mossville, Mapleton, Pontiac 
      
    Czech Republic:   Zatec 

Indiana:   Lafayette, Muncie 
      
    Germany:   Kiel, Mannheim, Rostock 

Kentucky:   Decoursey, Louisville, Mayfield 
      
    India:   Hosur 

South Carolina:   Greenville, Newberry 
      
    Mexico:   San Luis Potosi, Tijuana 

Texas:    Channelview, De Soto, Mabank, San Antonio, Schertz, Seguin 
      
    Republic of Singapore:    Singapore 

Sweden:    Ockero Islands 

Switzerland:   Riazzino 

United Kingdom:   Larne, Monkstown, Peterborough, Sandiacre, Shoreham, South Queensferry, Springvale, Stafford, Wimborne 

21 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 3. 
    Legal Proceedings. 
       
  On October 24, 2013, Progress Rail Services Corporation (Progress Rail), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Caterpillar Inc., received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The subpoena requests documents and information from Progress Rail, United Industries Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Progress Rail, and Caterpillar Inc. relating to allegations that Progress Rail conducted improper or unnecessary railcar inspections and repairs and improperly disposed of parts, equipment, tools and other items. In connection with this subpoena, Progress Rail was informed by the U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of environmental laws and alleged improper business practices. The Company is cooperating with the authorities. The Company is unable to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate the potential loss; however, we currently believe that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operation, financial position or liquidity.  
    
  In addition, we are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve disputes related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues, environmental matters or intellectual property rights.  The aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities, if any, associated with these unresolved legal actions is not material.  In some cases, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of loss because there is insufficient information regarding the matter.  However, there is no more than a remote chance that any liability arising from these matters would be material.  Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 
    
             Item 4. 
    Mine Safety Disclosures. 
       
  Information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.104) is included in Exhibit 95 to this annual report. 
    
    PART II 
    
             Item 5. 
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
       
  Information required by Item 5 regarding our stock is incorporated by reference from the Supplemental Stockholder Information section of Exhibit 13 under  Common Stock (NYSE:CAT)   Listing Information,     Price Ranges,      Number of Stockholders  and  Performance Graph: Total Cumulative Stockholder Return for Five-Year Period Ending December 31, 2013  and from the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  section of Exhibit 13 under  Dividends paid per common share.  
    
  Sale of Unregistered Securities 
    
  Non-U.S. Employee Stock Purchase Plans 
    
  We have 28 employee stock purchase plans administered outside the United States for our non-U.S. employees.    As of December 31, 2013  , those plans had approximately 14,000 active participants in the aggregate.  During the fourth quarter of   2013  , approximately 313,000 shares of Caterpillar common stock or foreign denominated equivalents were distributed under the plans.  Participants in some foreign plans have the option of receiving non-U.S. share certificates (foreign-denominated equivalents) in lieu of U.S. shares of Caterpillar common stock upon withdrawal from the plan.  These equivalent certificates are tradable only on the local stock market and are included in our determination of shares outstanding. Distributions of Caterpillar stock under the plans are exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to 17 CFR 230.903. 
    
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  No shares were repurchased during the fourth quarter   2013  . 
    
    22 

     Table of Contents  

   Other Purchases of Equity Securities 

_____________________________ 
            (1)   
    Represents shares delivered back to issuer for the payment of taxes resulting from the exercise of stock options by employees and Directors. 
       
             Item 6. 
    Selected Financial Data. 
       
  Information required by Item 6 is incorporated by reference from the  Five-year Financial Summary  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of Exhibit 13. 
    
             Item 7. 
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
       
  Information required by Item 7 is incorporated by reference from  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of Exhibit 13. 
    
  This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with our discussion of cautionary statements and significant risks to the company s business under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 
    
             Item 7A. 
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 
       
  Information required by Item 7A appears in Note 1    Operations and summary of significant accounting policies,  Note 3      Derivative financial instruments and risk management,  Note 18    Fair values disclosures  and Note 19    Concentration of credit risk  of Exhibit 13.  Other information required by Item 7A is incorporated by reference from  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of Exhibit 13. 
    
             Item 8. 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
       
  Information required by Item 8 is incorporated by reference from the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  and from the  Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  of Exhibit 13.  Other information required by Item 8 is included in  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  filed as Exhibit 12 to this Form 10-K. 
    
             Item 9. 
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
       
  Not Applicable. 
    
             Item 9A. 
    Controls and Procedures. 
       
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
    
  An evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the company's  disclosure controls and procedures, as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.  Based on that evaluation, the company's management, including the CEO and CFO concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report. 
    
    23 

     Table of Contents  

   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  The management of Caterpillar Inc. (company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.  Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2013  . In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   (1992)  . Based on our assessment we concluded that, as of   December 31, 2013  , the company s internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria. 
    
  The effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2013   has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm.  Their report appears on page A-4 of Exhibit 13. 
    
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    
  During the last fiscal quarter, there has been no significant change in the company s internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
             Item 9B. 
    Other Information. 
       
  Not Applicable. 
    
    PART III 
    
             Item 10. 
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 
       
  Identification of Directors and Business Experience 
    
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
  Identification of Executive Officers and Business Experience 
    
  Information required by this Item appears in Item 1C of this Form 10-K. 
    
  Family Relationships 
    
  There are no family relationships between the officers and directors of the company. 
    
  Legal Proceedings Involving Officers and Directors 
    
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
  Audit Committee Financial Expert 
    
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    24 

     Table of Contents  

Identification of Audit Committee 
    
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
  Stockholder Recommendation of Board Nominees 
    
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
  Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act 
    
  Information required by this Item relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
  Code of Ethics 
    
  Our Worldwide Code of Conduct (Code), first published in 1974 and most recently updated in 2010, sets a high standard for honesty and ethical behavior by every employee, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, controller and principal accounting officer.  The Code is posted on our website at www.Caterpillar.com/code and is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 14 to this Form 10-K.  To obtain a copy of the Code at no charge, submit a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams Street, Peoria, Illinois 61629-6490.  We will post on our website any required amendments to or waivers granted under our Code pursuant to SEC or New York Stock Exchange disclosure rules. 
    
             Item 11. 
    Executive Compensation. 
       
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
             Item 12. 
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
       
  Information required by this Item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
  Information required by this Item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included in the following table: 
    
  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
  (as of   December 31, 2013  ) 

_____________________________________________ 
            (1)    
    Excludes any cash payments in-lieu-of stock. 
       
             Item 13. 
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
       
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    25 

     Table of Contents  

Item 14. 
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 
       
  Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the   2014   Proxy Statement. 
    
    PART IV 
    
    Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 
    
           (a) 
    The following documents are incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13: 
       
           1. 
    Financial Statements: 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
                
    Statement 1 -  Consolidated Results of Operations 
                
    Statement 2 -  Consolidated Comprehensive Income 
                
    Statement 3 -  Consolidated Financial Position 
                
    Statement 4 -  Changes in Consolidated Stockholders  Equity 
                
    Statement 5 -  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow 
                
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
       
           2. 
    Financial Statement Schedules: 
                
    All schedules are omitted because the required information is shown in the financial statements or the notes thereto incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13 or considered to be immaterial. 

26 

     Table of Contents  

27 

     Table of Contents  

10.22 
    Credit Agreement (Four-Year Facility), dated as of September 16, 2010, by and among the Company, Cat Financial, Caterpillar International Finance Limited and Caterpillar Finance Corporation, the Banks named therein, Local Currency Banks and Japan Local Currency Banks party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, Citibank International plc, as Local Currency Agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.4 to Form 8-K filed September 21, 2010) 

10.23 
    Local Currency Addendum to the Four-Year Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.5 to Form 8-K filed September 21, 2010). 

10.24 
    Japan Local Currency Addendum to the Four-Year Facility (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.6 to Form 8-K filed September 21, 2010). 

10.25 
    Amendment No. 1 to the Four-Year Facility, dated as of September 15, 2011 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.7 to Form 8-K filed September 16, 2011) 

10.26 
    Amendment No. 2 to the Four-Year Facility, dated as of September 13, 2012 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.4 to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2012).  

10.27 
    Omnibus Amendment No. 3 and Amendment No. 1 to Local Currency Addendum to the 2010 Four-Year Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.4 to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2013). 

10.28 
    Credit Agreement (2013 364-Day Credit Agreement), dated as of September 12, 2013, among the Company, Cat Financial, Caterpillar International Finance Limited and Caterpillar Finance Corporation, certain financial institutions named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, Citibank International plc, as Local Currency Agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2013). 

10.29 
    Local Currency Addendum, dated as of September 12, 2013, to the 2013 364-Day Credit Agreement  (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2013). 

10.30 
    Japan Local Currency Addendum, dated as of September 12, 2013, to the 2013 364-Day Credit Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K filed September 17, 2013). 

11 
    Computations of Earnings per Share. 

12 
    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

13 
    General and Financial Information for 2013 containing the information required by SEC Rule 14a-3 for an annual report to security holders. 

14 
    Caterpillar Worldwide Code of Conduct (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 14 to the Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 2010). 

21 
    Subsidiaries and Affiliates of the Registrant. 

23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31.1 
    Certification of Douglas R. Oberhelman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

31.2 
    Certification of Bradley M. Halverson, Group President and Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32 
    Certification of Douglas R. Oberhelman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc. and Bradley M. Halverson, Group President and Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

95 
    Mine Safety Disclosures. 

101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document. 

101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 

101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 

101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. 

101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 

101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 

__________________________________________ 
           * 
    Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this report. 
       
    28 

       Table of Contents  

   Form 10-K 
    
  SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

CATERPILLAR INC. 
        
    (Registrant) 

February 18, 2014 
    By: 
    /s/James B. Buda 

James B. Buda, Executive Vice President, Law and Public Policy 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Chairman of the Board 
  and Chief Executive Officer 
      February 18, 2014 
    /s/Douglas R. Oberhelman 
        
    (Douglas R. Oberhelman) 

Group President and 
      February 18, 2014 
    /s/Bradley M. Halverson 
    Chief Financial Officer 
        
    (Bradley M. Halverson) 

Chief Accounting Officer 
      February 18, 2014 
    /s/Jananne A. Copeland 
        
    (Jananne A. Copeland) 

February 18, 2014 
    /s/David L. Calhoun 
    Director 
        
    (David L. Calhoun) 

29 

       Table of Contents  

30 

       Table of Contents  

   Form 10-K 
    
  EXHIBIT INDEX 

31 

       Table of Contents  

32 

       Table of Contents  

                  12 
    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 
      13 
    General and Financial Information for 2013 containing the information required by SEC Rule 14a-3 for an annual report to security holders. 
      14 
    Caterpillar Worldwide Code of Conduct (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 14 to the Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 2010). 
      21 
    Subsidiaries and Affiliates of the Registrant. 
      23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
      31.1 
    Certification of Douglas R. Oberhelman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      31.2 
    Certification of Bradley M. Halverson, Group President and Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      32 
    Certification of Douglas R. Oberhelman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc. and Bradley M. Halverson, Group President and Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      95 
    Mine Safety Disclosures. 
      101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document. 
      101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 
      101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 
      101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. 
      101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 
      101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 

__________________________________________ 
           * 
    Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this report. 
       33 

<EX-10.6>
 2
 ex10-6.htm
 EX-10.6

EX10-6 

Exhibit 10.6 

CATERPILLAR INC. 
  SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN 
    
  (formerly known as the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Pension Benefit Plan) 
    
  (Amended and Restated as of December 5, 2013) 

Table of Contents 
    
                           ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS 

ARTICLE II. ELIGIBILITY; ADOPTION BY AFFILIATES 

ARTICLE III. DETERMINATION OF BENEFIT 

ARTICLE IV. VESTING 

ARTICLE V. PAYMENT OF BENEFIT 

ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 

ARTICLE VII. AMENDMENT 

ARTICLE VIII. GENERAL PROVISIONS 

CATERPILLAR INC. 
  SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN 
    
  PREAMBLE 
    
  The Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan (formerly known as the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Pension Benefit Plan and hereinafter referred to as the  Plan ) was established as of January 1, 1976 by Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) to provide additional pension benefits to individuals who participate in the Caterpillar Inc. Retirement Income Plan, as amended, or any successor(s) to such plan ( RIP ), but whose benefits are limited due to the application of Section 401(a)(17) and/or Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The Plan also provides the benefits that would otherwise be payable pursuant to RIP but for (i) an individual s deferral of compensation under the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan, the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan, or the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan or (ii) the exclusions from  Total Earnings  under RIP for an individual s lump sum discretionary awards and variable base pay.   
    
  This amended and restated Plan is effective as of the dates specified herein. 

ARTICLE I 
  DEFINITIONS 
    
  1.1      General  .    When a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be a term defined in this Article I.  The following words and phrases used in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized shall have the meanings set forth in this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or phrase is defined for a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan document: 
    
  (a)       Adopting Affiliate      means any Affiliate that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and which has adopted the Plan in accordance with Section 2.5.  All Affiliates that adopted the Plan on or before the Effective Date and that had not terminated such adoption shall continue to be Adopting Affiliates of the Plan. 
    
  (b)       Affiliate      means a parent business that controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the Company. 
    
  (c)       Beneficiary      means, with respect to a Participant, the person or persons entitled to receive distributions of the Participant s death benefits under RIP. 
    
  (d)         Benefit Determination Date    means the following: 
    
    2 

(i)      On or After Effective Date But Prior to January 1, 2009  .  On or after the Effective Date but prior to January 1, 2009, a Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the date as of which the Participant has elected to commence benefits under RIP. 
    
  (ii)      On or After January 1, 2009  .   On or after January 1, 2009, a Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the date determined under (1) or (2) below: 

(iii)    With respect to (x) a Participant s PEP Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(b)), (y) a Choice Participant s benefits under this Plan, or (z) a Participant s Traditional Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) where the Participant satisfies the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) as of the Participant s Separation from Service, the Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the first day of the month following the Participant s Separation from Service. 
    
  (iv)    With respect to a Participant s Traditional Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) for a Participant other than a Choice Participant where the Participant does not satisfy the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) as of the Participant s Separation from Service, the Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the first day of the month following the date that the Participant first satisfies the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v). 
    
  (e)       Benefit Payment Date      means the date as of which the Participant s benefit amounts under the Plan shall be payable, as determined in accordance with Section 5.2(d). 
    
  (f)       Board      means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board. 

(g)         Choice Participant    means a Participant who (i) has a  frozen traditional benefit  under RIP as a result of the election made by such Participant to cease accruing a benefit under the traditional benefit formula of RIP and to begin accruing a benefit under the pension equity formula of RIP and (ii) had accrued a Traditional Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) under this Plan as of June 30, 2003. 
    
  (h)       Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 
    
  (i)       Company      means Caterpillar Inc., and, to the extent provided in Section 8.8 below, any successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or consolidation into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company. 
    
  (j)       DEIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan, as amended. 
    
  (k)       Director      means the Company s Director of Compensation + Benefits. 
    
  (l)         Disability    or    Disabled    means that a Participant is determined to be totally disabled by the United States Social Security Administration. 
    
  (m)       Effective Date      means January 1, 2005. 
    3 

(n)       ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 
    
  (o)         Lump Sum Discretionary Award    means any lump sum discretionary award paid to a Participant as determined in accordance with the established pay practices of the Company and Adopting Affiliates. 
    
  (p)       Participant      means an employee of the Company or any Adopting Affiliate who satisfies the eligibility requirements for participation in the Plan. 
    
  (q)       Plan      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan, as set forth herein and as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
  (r)       Plan Administrator      means the Director. 
    
  (s)       Plan Year      means the calendar year. 
    
  (t)       RIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Retirement Income Plan, as amended or any successor(s) to such plan. 
    
  (u)       SDCP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended or any successor(s) to such plan. 
    
  (v)       SEIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan, as amended. 
    
  (w)       Separation from Service      means separation from service as determined in accordance with any regulations, rulings or other guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury pursuant to Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code, as it may be amended or replaced from time to time. 
    
  (x)       Specified Employee      means a  key employee  as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to Section 416(i)(5) and determined in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code. 
    
  (y)       Unforeseeable Emergency      means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code) of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.  For purposes of the Plan, an  Unforeseeable Emergency  shall not include a Participant s need to send his or her child to college or a Participant s desire to purchase a home. Any determination as to whether a Participant has incurred an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be made in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator in accordance with rules prescribed pursuant to Section 409A of the Code. 
    
  (z)         Variable Base Pay    means the variable base pay paid to a Participant as determined in accordance with the established pay practices of the Company and Adopting Affiliates. 
    
  (aa)       Sunset Participant    means a Participant who is classified as a  Sunset Participant  under the terms of RIP. 
    
    4 

(ab) 
     GSCS    means Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC (f/k/a Caterpillar Logistics Services, Inc.). 
       
  (ac)   GSCS Participant     means a Participant who is employed by GSCS upon the closing of the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate. 
    
  (ad)   GSCS Closing Date       means the date on which the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate is completed. 
    
  1.2      Construction  .  The masculine gender, when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender (and vice versa), and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan clearly states to the contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the purpose of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the Plan.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any reason invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois without regard to conflict of law principles and shall be administered according to the laws of such state, except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other Federal law. 
    
  ARTICLE II 
  ELIGIBILITY; ADOPTION BY AFFILIATES 
    
  2.1      Eligible Employees  .  The purpose of the Plan is to provide supplemental retirement benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated employees.  This group of employees is sometimes referred to as a  top hat group.   The Plan constitutes an unfunded supplemental retirement plan and is fully exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA. The Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with Title I of ERISA. 
    
  2.2      Existing Participants  .      Each individual who was a Participant in the Plan as of the date of execution of this plan document shall continue as such, subject to the provisions hereof. 
    
  2.3      New Participants  .  An employee shall participate in the Plan if the employee is receiving, is eligible to receive, or is accruing retirement benefits pursuant to RIP; and 
    
  (a)      the employee s RIP benefits are limited by application of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code; 
    
  (b)      the employee s RIP benefits are limited by application of Section 415(b) of the Code; 
    
  (c)      the employee s RIP benefits are decreased due to the employee s deferral of salary or incentive compensation under SEIP, DEIP or SDCP; or 
    
  (d)      the employee s RIP benefits are limited due to the exclusions from  Total Earnings  (as defined under RIP) for the employee s Lump Sum Discretionary Awards and Variable Base Pay. 
    
  2.4      Discontinuance of Participation  .  As a general rule, once an individual is a Participant, he will continue as such for all future Plan Years until his retirement or other termination of employment.  In addition, prior to retirement or other termination of employment, the Plan Administrator shall discontinue an individual s participation in the Plan if the Plan Administrator concludes, in the exercise of his discretion, that the individual is no longer properly included in the top hat group.  If an individual s participation is discontinued, the individual will no longer be eligible to accrue a benefit under the Plan.  The individual will not be entitled to receive a  
    5 

distribution, however, until the occurrence of another event (e.g., death or Separation from Service) that entitles the individual to receive a distribution. 
    
  2.5      Adoption by Affiliates  .  An employee of an Affiliate may not become a Participant in the Plan unless the Affiliate has previously adopted the Plan.  An Affiliate of the Company may adopt the Plan only with the approval of the Company.  By adopting the Plan, the Affiliate shall be deemed to have agreed to assume the obligations and liabilities imposed upon it by the Plan, agreed to comply with all of the other terms and provisions of the Plan, delegated to the Plan Administrator the power and responsibility to administer the Plan with respect to the Affiliate s employees, and delegated to the Company the full power to amend or terminate the Plan with respect to the Affiliate s employees.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Affiliate that has previously adopted the Plan may terminate its participation in the Plan in accordance with such rules and procedures that are promulgated by the Company. 
    
  ARTICLE III 
  DETERMINATION OF BENEFIT 
    
  3.1      General  .  Benefit amounts payable under the Plan shall be determined pursuant to Section 3.2 and, if applicable, adjusted pursuant to Section 3.4.  Such determinations shall be made by reference to (a) the benefit amounts that would be payable to the Participant under RIP if SEIP, DEIP and SDCP deferrals and any Lump Sum Discretionary Awards or Variable Base Pay were taken into account in determining the Participant s benefits thereunder and (b) without regard to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. For avoidance of doubt, effective January 1, 2011, any Participant who is not a Sunset Participant shall not receive any additional benefit accruals under this Article III, and any Sunset Participant shall not receive any additional benefit accruals under this Article III effective as of the earlier of: (1) the date he is no longer a Sunset Participant or (2) January 1, 2020. 
    
  3.2      Amount of Benefit Payable to Participant  .  The monthly benefit payable to the Participant by the Plan shall be equal to the sum of the Participant s  Traditional Benefit  and  PEP Benefit  amounts (both as defined below), if any, determined under subsections (a) and (b) below as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date: 
    
  (a)       Traditional Benefit   .  Any benefit payable to the Participant by the Plan under the  traditional benefit  provisions of RIP, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be determined as follows: 
    
  (1)      Step One  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the benefit that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to RIP if SEIP, DEIP and SDCP deferrals and any Lump Sum Discretionary Awards or Variable Base Pay were taken into account and without regard to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code.  For purposes of this Section 3.2(a)(1), the parenthetical phrase of Section 5.2 of RIP reading  (2% for Participants in salary grades 30 or 31, 2.25% for Participants in salary grade 32, 2.4% for Participants in salary grades 33 or higher)  shall be disregarded. 
    
  (2)      Step Two  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the Participant s benefit that would be payable pursuant to RIP (as calculated as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date). 
    
   (3)      Step Three  .  The amount determined pursuant to paragraph (2) above shall be subtracted from the amount determined pursuant to paragraph (1) above to determine the benefit payable to the Participant pursuant to this Section 3.2(a) of the Plan (herein referred to as a Participant s  Traditional Benefit ). 
    
    6 

(b)       PEP Benefit   . Any benefit payable by the Plan to the Participant under the  pension equity formula  provisions of RIP, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be determined as follows: 
    
  (1)      Step One  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the single sum amount that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to RIP if SEIP, DEIP and SDCP deferrals and any Lump Sum Discretionary Awards or Variable Base Pay were taken into account and without regard to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. 
    
  (2)      Step Two  . The Plan Administrator shall determine the Participant s single sum amount that would be payable pursuant to RIP (as calculated as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date). 
    
  (3)      Step Three  .  The amount determined pursuant to paragraph (2) above shall be subtracted from the amount determined pursuant to paragraph (1) above to determine the single sum amount payable to the Participant pursuant to this Section 3.2(b) of the Plan (herein referred to as a Participant s  PEP Benefit ). 
    
  3.3      Survivor Benefits.    In the event a Participant dies after becoming vested under the Plan pursuant to Section 4.1 but prior to commencing his benefits under the Plan pursuant to Article V, a survivor benefit shall be payable as follows: 
    
  (a)      Traditional Benefit  .  With respect to a Participant s Traditional Benefit, if any, determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4), the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, shall be entitled to a monthly survivor benefit payable during the spouse s lifetime and terminating with the payment for the month in which such spouse s death occurs.  The monthly benefit payable to the surviving spouse shall be the portion of the amount determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date that the surviving spouse would have been entitled to receive under this Plan if the Participant had separated from service on the date of his death, commenced benefits in accordance with Article V in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity, and then died immediately thereafter. A surviving spouse who was not married to the deceased Participant for at least one year at the date of death shall not be eligible for the monthly survivor benefit pursuant to this Section 3.3. 
    
  (b)      PEP Benefit  .  With respect to a Participant s PEP Benefit, if any, determined under Section 3.2(b), such benefit shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after the Benefit Determination Date. 
    
  (c)      Certain Choice Participant Benefits  .  Notwithstanding the provisions of (a) and (b) above, with respect to a Choice Participant who does not make a contrary election pursuant to Section 5.2(c)(3), such Participant s Beneficiary shall receive a single sum amount equal to the actuarial equivalent present value (using the actuarial assumptions under RIP applicable to the Participant as of his or her Benefit Determination Date) of the Participant s Traditional Benefit and PEP Benefit calculated as of the date specified in Section 5.2(d)(1)(i), and as further adjusted by using the actuarial assumptions under RIP applicable to the Beneficiary as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Choice Participant makes an election pursuant to Section 5.2(c)(3) to receive his or her benefits under the Plan in the form of monthly annuity payments, his or her Beneficiary, in lieu of the single sum amount described in the preceding sentence, shall receive a monthly benefit paid for the remainder of the Beneficiary s life; provided that, the Beneficiary s monthly benefit shall be equal to the actuarially equivalent monthly benefit of such single sum amount (using the actuarial assumptions under RIP applicable to the Beneficiary as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date); provided further that, in no event shall the Beneficiary s monthly benefit be less than the monthly survivor benefit determined under Section 3.3 
    7 

(a) that, but for this Section 3.3(c), would have been payable to the Participant s surviving spouse (or, if there is no surviving spouse, would have been payable under Section 3.3(a) had the Participant died with a surviving spouse). Any single sum amount or monthly benefit determined under this Section 3.3(c) shall be payable to the Participant s Beneficiary as soon as administratively feasible after the date of the Participant s death. 
    
  3.4      Early Retirement Reductions  .  Any benefits determined pursuant to this Article III shall be subject to the same reductions for early retirement as applicable under RIP. 
    
  3.5      Future Adjustments  .  Any benefit amounts payable under this Plan may be adjusted to take into account future amendments to RIP and increases in retirement income that are granted under RIP due to cost-of-living increases.  Any benefit amounts payable under this Plan shall be adjusted to take into account future factors and adjustments made by the Secretary of the Treasury (in regulations or otherwise) to the limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. 
    
  ARTICLE IV 
  VESTING 
    
  4.1      Vesting  .      Subject to Section 8.1, each Participant shall be vested in his or her benefit, if any, that becomes payable under Article V of the Plan to the same extent that the Participant is vested in his or her benefit accrued under RIP.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.1, each GSCS Participant shall be fully vested at all times from and after the GSCS Closing Date in his or her benefit payable under the Plan. 
    
  ARTICLE V 
  PAYMENT OF BENEFIT 
    
  5.1      Payments on or After Effective Date But Prior to January 1, 2009  .  In accordance with the transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury in Section 3 of IRS Notice 2007-86, any payment of benefits to a Participant or his Beneficiary commencing on or after the Effective Date but prior to January 1, 2009 shall be made pursuant to the Participant s applicable payment election or the applicable pre-retirement survivor provisions under RIP. 
    
  5.2      Payments on or After January 1, 2009  .  Any payment of benefits to a Participant commencing on or after January 1, 2009 shall be determined in accordance with this Section 5.2. 
    
  (a)      Limitation on Right to Receive Distribution  .      A Participant shall not be entitled to receive a distribution prior to the first to occur of the following events: 
    
  (1)    The Participant s Separation from Service, or in the case of a Participant who is a Specified Employee, the date which is six months after the Participant s Separation from Service; 
    
  (2)    The date the Participant becomes Disabled; 
    
  (3)    The Participant s death; 
    
  (4)    A specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) specified at the date of deferral of compensation; 
    
    8 

(5)    An Unforeseeable Emergency; or 
    
  (6)    To the extent provided by the Secretary of the Treasury, a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
    
  This Section 5.2(a) restates the restrictions on distributions set forth in Section 409A of the Code and is intended to impose restrictions on distributions pursuant to the Plan accordingly. This Section 5.2(a) does not describe the instances in which distributions will be made. Rather, distributions will be made only if and when permitted both by this Section 5.2(a) and another provision of the Plan. 
    
  (b)      General Right to Receive Distribution  .  Following a Participant s termination of employment or death, the Participant s benefit amounts will be paid to the Participant in the manner and at the time provided in Sections 5.2(c) and 5.2(d), as applicable. A transfer of a Participant from the Company or any Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of this Section 5.2(b). 
    
  (c)      Form of Payment  . 
    
  (1)      Traditional Benefit  .  Any monthly benefit payable to a Participant under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) shall be paid in the form of annuity payments as follows: 
    
  (i)      Unmarried Participants  . The benefits of an unmarried Participant shall be paid in the form of a single life annuity for the Participant s life.  No payments shall be made after the Participant dies.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time, an unmarried Participant may elect, in lieu of a single life annuity, to have his or her benefits paid in any actuarially equivalent form of annuity permitted under RIP. 
    
  (ii)      Married Participants  .  Subject to Section 3.3, the benefits of a married Participant shall be paid in the form of a joint and survivor annuity in a reduced monthly benefit  for the Participant s life (as determined in accordance with the applicable actuarial assumptions in effect under RIP) and then, if the Participant s spouse is still alive, a benefit equal to 50% of the Participant s monthly benefit is paid to the spouse for the remainder of his or her life.  If the Participant s spouse is not alive when the Participant dies, no further payments shall be made.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time, a married Participant may, with the written consent of the Participant s spouse, elect to waive the joint and survivor annuity of this subparagraph (ii) and instead elect a single life annuity or any actuarially equivalent form of annuity permitted under RIP. 
    
  In addition, if the Participant s Benefit Payment Date, as described in clauses (i)-(v) of Section 5.2(d)(1), is delayed pursuant to the last sentence of Section 5.2(d)(1), then any monthly benefit amounts that would have been paid if not for such last sentence will be credited with interest at five percent (5%) per annum through the Participant s Benefit Payment Date. Such delayed monthly benefit amounts and interest shall be paid in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after such Benefit Payment Date. 
    
  (2)      PEP Benefit  . Any benefit payable to a Participant determined under Section 3.2(b) shall be paid in a single sum amount.  In addition, if the Participant s Benefit Payment Date, as described in Section 5.2(d)(2), is delayed pursuant to the first sentence of Section 5.2(d)(2), then any single sum amount that  
    9 

would have been paid if not for such first sentence will be credited with interest at five percent (5%) per annum through the Participant s Benefit Payment Date.  Such interest shall be paid in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after such Benefit Payment Date. 
    
  (3)      Special One-Time Election for Choice Participants  .  Pursuant to the transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury, the Plan Administrator shall provide a special one-time election to Choice Participants whose benefits have not commenced as of December 31, 2008, to elect to have their benefits paid other than in the forms otherwise described in (1) and (2) above, subject to such procedures as are established by the Plan Administrator; provided that, if a Choice Participant does not make such an election, any benefit amounts under the Plan that become payable to such Choice Participant shall be paid in the forms described in (1) and (2) above, as applicable.  In addition, if the Participant s Benefit Payment Date, as described in Section 5.2(d)(3), is delayed pursuant to Section 5.2(d)(3), then any monthly benefit amounts or single sum amounts that would have been paid if not for such delay will be credited with interest at five percent (5%) per annum through the Participant s Benefit Payment Date in accordance with the applicable provisions of (1) and (2) above. Such delayed monthly benefit amounts or single sum amounts and interest shall be paid in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after such Benefit Payment Date. 
    
  (d)      Timing of Payment  . 
    
  (1)      Traditional Benefit  .    Except as provided below, any benefit determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) that becomes payable to the Participant following Separation from Service shall commence on the first day of the month following the earliest of the following: 
    
  (i)    the Participant s attainment of age 65 or, if later, the Participant s fifth anniversary of the date he or she commenced participation under RIP; 
    
  (ii)    the Participant s attainment of age 55 with the number of the Participant s years of vesting service plus his or her age equaling at least 85; 
    
  (iii)    the Participant s attainment of age 60 after completing at least 10 years of vesting service; 
    
  (iv)    the Participant s attainment of age 55 after completing at least 15 years of vesting service; or 
    
  (v)    the Participant s completing at least 30 years of vesting service. 
    
  For purposes of (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above, the Plan Administrator shall determine the Participant s  years of vesting service  by reference to the applicable terms under RIP in existence as of the date the Participant first commenced participation under this Plan. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.2(d)(1), in no event shall any benefit payable to a Participant under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) commence earlier than the first day of the month coincident with or next following a date that is at least six months after the Participant s Separation from Service, except in the event of the Participant s death, in which case any benefit payable to the Participant s Beneficiary shall commence as of the applicable date specified in Section 3.3(a). 
    
    10 

(2)      PEP Benefit  .    Any benefit determined under Section 3.2(b) that becomes payable to the Participant following Separation from Service shall be paid on the first day of the month that is at least six months after the Participant s Separation from Service.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of the Participant s death, any benefit payable to the Participant s Beneficiary will be paid as soon as administratively feasible after the date of the Participant s death. 
    
  (3)      Certain Choice Participant Benefits  .  Any benefits that become payable to a Choice Participant following Separation from Service shall be paid on the first day of the month that is at least six months after the Participant s Separation from Service.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of the Participant s death, any benefit payable to the Participant s Beneficiary will be paid as soon as administratively feasible after the date of the Participant s death. 
    
  5.3      Automatic Lump Sum Distributions  .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary: 
    
  (a)      Certain Distributions on or After Effective Date But Prior to January 1, 2009  .  Effective as of the Effective Date but prior to January 1, 2009, if the actuarial equivalent present value of an individual s benefit amounts payable under this Plan (as determined in accordance with the applicable actuarial assumptions in effect under RIP as of the individual s Benefit Determination Date) is less than or equal to $10,000, the individual s benefit amounts under the Plan shall be distributed in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible on or after such Benefit Determination Date. 
    
  (b)      Certain Distributions on or After January 1, 2009  .  Effective January 1, 2009, if the sum of (i) the actuarial equivalent present value of an individual s benefit amounts payable under this Plan (as determined in accordance with the applicable actuarial assumptions in effect under RIP as of the individual s Benefit Determination Date) and (ii) the interest, if any, credited on such amounts through the individual s Benefit Payment Date (as determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 5.2(c)) is less than or equal to the dollar limitation under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code in effect for the calendar year in which the individual s Benefit Payment Date occurs, the individual s benefit amounts under the Plan shall be distributed in a single sum amount equal to the sum of (i) and (ii) above as soon as administratively feasible on or after such Benefit Payment Date. 
    
  5.4      Withholding  .      All distributions will be subject to all applicable tax and withholding requirements. 
    
  5.5      Ban on Acceleration of Benefits  .  Neither the time nor the schedule of any payment under the Plan may be accelerated except as permitted in regulations or other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of the Treasury and as incorporated herein. 
    
  ARTICLE VI 
  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
    
  6.1      General Powers and Duties  .    The following list of powers and duties is not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan Administrator shall, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as he may deem advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless such powers or duties are expressly assigned to another pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 
    
  (a)      General  .  The Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and discretion given to him in the Plan document and by applicable law and his decisions and actions shall be final  
    11 

and conclusive as to all persons affected thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the Plan Administrator with all data and information that the Plan Administrator may reasonably require in order to perform his functions.  The Plan Administrator may rely without question upon any such data or information. 
    
  (b)      Disputes  .  Any and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be referred to the Plan Administrator and his decision shall be final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning, interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the Plan Administrator shall be final. 
    
  (c)      Agents  .  The Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist him and he may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 
    
  (d)      Insurance  .  At the Director s request, the Company shall purchase liability insurance to cover the Director in his activities as the Plan Administrator. 
    
  (e)      Allocations  .  The Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such responsibility has been allocated. 
    
  (f)      Records  .  The Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records by his agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the Plan. 
    
  (g)      Interpretations  .  The Plan Administrator, in his sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 
    
  (h)      Electronic Administration  .  The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to, electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions or forms submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan calling for the submission of a written election, direction or form. 
    
  (i)      Delegation  .  The Plan Administrator may delegate his authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in his sole and absolute discretion. 
    
  6.2      Claims Procedures  .    Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in accordance with Code Section 409A and uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA. 
    12 

ARTICLE VII 
  AMENDMENT 

7.1      Amendment  .  The Company reserves the right at any time to amend, modify or suspend any or all of the provisions of this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time as designated by a written instrument duly adopted on behalf of the Company. 
    
  7.2      Effect of Amendment  .  Any amendment of the Plan shall not directly or indirectly reduce the benefits previously accrued by the Participant. 
    
           7.3 
    Termination  .  The Company expressly reserves the right to terminate the Plan.  
       
  (a)  General  .     In the event of termination, the Company shall specify whether termination will change the time at which distributions are made; provided that any acceleration of a distribution is consistent with Section 409A of the Code.  In the absence of such specification, the timing of distributions shall be unaffected by termination. 
    
  (b)  GSCS Termination  .  Pursuant to the Company s authority to terminate the Plan, the Plan is irrevocably terminated with respect to all GSCS Participants upon the GSCS Closing Date and no GSCS Participant shall accrue any benefits under the Plan for any purpose after the GSCS Closing Date.  Pursuant to termination of the Plan with respect to GSCS Participants pursuant to this Section 7.3(b), the present value of each GSCS Participant s benefit amounts payable under the Plan shall be distributed to the GSCS Participant in a single sum amount as soon as practicable after the GSCS Closing Date, but in no event later than December 31 next following the GSCS Closing Date.  Termination of the Plan with respect to GSCS Participants will change the time at which distributions are made to GSCS Participants.  Payments to GSCS Participants pursuant to this Section 7.3(b) are intended to comply with section 409A of the Code and applicable guidance issued thereunder. 
    
  ARTICLE VIII 
  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    
  8.1      Participant s Rights Unsecured  .  The Plan at all times shall be entirely unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company for payment of any distributions hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her Beneficiary to receive benefits hereunder shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor his Beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company.  All amounts accrued by Participants hereunder shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of the Company s insolvency. 
    
  8.2      No Guaranty of Benefits  .  Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or entity that the assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder. 
    
    13 

8.3      No Enlargement of Employee Rights  .  No Participant shall have any right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
    
  8.4      Section 409A Compliance  .  The Company intends that the Plan meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder.  The Plan shall be administered, construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with that intention. 
    
  8.5      Spendthrift Provision  .  No interest of any person or entity in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such interest or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims in bankruptcy proceedings.  This Section shall not preclude arrangements for the withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or benefit payments, arrangements for the recovery of benefit overpayments, arrangements for the transfer of benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements for direct deposit of benefit payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan association or credit union (provided that such arrangement is not part of an arrangement constituting an assignment or alienation). 
    
  8.6      Domestic Relations Orders  .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, the amounts payable pursuant to the Plan may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time. 
    
  8.7      Incapacity of Recipient  .  If the Plan Administrator is served with a court order holding that a person entitled to a distribution under the Plan is incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone payment until such time as a claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person.  The Plan Administrator is under no obligation to inquire or investigate as to the competency of any person entitled to a distribution.  Any payment to an appointed guardian or other legal representative under this Section shall be a payment for the account of the incapacitated person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefor. 
    
  8.8      Successors  .  The Plan shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon the heirs, beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who become Participants hereunder. 
    
  8.9      Limitations on Liability  .  Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the Director, or the Company, nor any individual acting as the Plan Administrator s, the Director s, or the Company s employee, agent, or representative shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, Beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan. 
    
  8.10      Overpayments  .  If it is determined that the benefits under the Plan should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be given to the recipient of such benefits (or his legal representative) and he shall repay the amount of overpayment to the Company. If he fails to repay such amount of overpayment promptly, the Company shall arrange to recover for the Plan the amount of the overpayment by making an appropriate deduction or deductions from any future benefit payment or payments payable to that person (or his survivor or beneficiary) under the Plan or from any other benefit plan of the Company. 
    
    14 

8.11      Plan Frozen  .  As a result of the freeze of RIP, participation and benefit accruals are frozen under the Plan.  This Section 8.11 provides clarification regarding the freeze of the Plan. 
    
  (a)        Participation Frozen  .  The Plan is frozen to (1) all employees hired after November 30, 2010 and (2) all employees rehired after December 31, 2010.  Any employee hired or rehired after the applicable date in the preceding sentence shall not be eligible for the Plan and, in the case of a rehire, shall accrue no additional benefits under the Plan for any period of employment after such date.  Similarly, the Plan is frozen to all individuals hired or rehired by the Company or any Affiliate thereof prior to the applicable date in the first sentence who, as of such date, were not Participants in the Plan and therefore such individuals will never become eligible to participate in the Plan. 
    
  (b)        Benefits Frozen   Non-Sunset Participants  .  Effective January 1, 2011, the Plan is frozen with respect to any Participant who is not classified as a Sunset Participant on December 31, 2010.  Any Participant who was not a Sunset Participant on December 31, 2010 shall no longer accrue any additional benefits under the Plan for periods of employment on or after January 1, 2011. 
    
           (c) 
    Benefits Frozen   Sunset Participants  . 
       
           (1) 
    The Plan is frozen with respect to any Participant who is a Sunset Participant on December 31, 2010, but who later loses his status as a Sunset Participant, on the date such Participant loses status as a Sunset Participant. 
       
           (2) 
    Effective January 1, 2020, the Plan is frozen for all employees including by way of example but not limitation, Sunset Participants. 
       
  (d)      Plan Completely Frozen   January 1, 2020  .  For avoidance of doubt, no individual shall: (1) become a new Participant in the Plan after November 30, 2010 regardless of hire date or transfer date; and (2) accrue any benefits under the Plan for any period of employment on or after January 1, 2020. 
    
  (e)      Vesting Service Continues  .  For avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall continue to receive vesting service for any period of employment on or after the applicable freeze date referenced in this Section 8.11 for purposes of determining his or her vesting under Section 4.1 and his or her eligibility to commence benefits under Section 5.2(d). 

8.12 
    Special Rules for Participants with Same-Sex Domestic Partners  . 
       
  (a)      Generally  .    Effective January 1, 2013, except as specified under this Section 8.12 or as prohibited by applicable law, to the extent the Plan provides for any benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation relating to, or upon, a Participant s  spouse ,  Beneficiary ,  survivor , or  surviving spouse  (or any individual having a similar relationship to the Participant), the Plan Administrator shall also apply such benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation to a Participant s  same-sex domestic partner  (as defined in (b) below) in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner that is similar to how an opposite-gender spouse would be treated under the Plan. 
    
  (b)      Definition of  Same-Sex Domestic Partner   .    For purposes of this Section 8.12, the term  same-sex domestic partner  means the sole, same-sex person who is in a civil union, domestic partnership, or legal relationship similar thereto, with the Participant as recognized under the laws of the federal government or  
    15 

a state government of the United States of America, including its territories and possessions and the District of Columbia (or, with respect to any other country, legally recognized by the equivalent government(s) thereof).  The Plan shall continue to treat such relationship as a same-sex domestic partnership, regardless of whether the Participant and his same-sex domestic partner remain in the jurisdiction where the relationship was legally entered into.  In the event more than one person meets this definition for a given Participant, then the  same-sex domestic partner  shall be the person who first met the criteria in this definition.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law, no person will qualify as the Participant s same-sex domestic partner unless such Participant s marriage to such spouse is first lawfully dissolved.  Except with respect to determining the length of time the same-sex domestic partner has satisfied the definition of same-sex domestic partner under the Plan, a Participant shall be considered to have a same-sex domestic partner only with respect to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, regardless of when such same-sex partnership was created. 
    
  (c)        Exceptions  . 
    
  (1)      Determination of Status as a  married Participant   .  For purposes of Section 5.2(c)(1), a Participant shall be considered a  married Participant  only if the Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law.  For avoidance of doubt, a Participant with a same-sex domestic partner is considered to be an  unmarried Participant  and is not required to obtain the same-sex domestic partner s consent for the election of any form of payment provided under the Plan, and the normal form of benefit for purposes of Section 5.2(c)(1) for any such Participant shall be a single life annuity for the Participant s life. 
    
  (2)      Determination of Unforeseeable Emergency  . Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law shall be considered a  spouse  for purposes of applying the definition of   Unforeseeable Emergency  in Section 1.1(y).  
    
  (3)      Domestic Relations Orders  .  Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law or another  alternate payee  (as defined under Section 414(p) of the Code) may enforce a domestic relations order against the Plan or a Participant s interests hereunder pursuant to Section 8.6. 

8.13      Determination of  spouse   .    Effective September 16, 2013, or as otherwise required under Internal Revenue Service guidance, the term  spouse  means the person who is the Participant s spouse for federal tax purposes pursuant to applicable Internal Revenue Service guidance. 
    
    16 

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 ex10-7.htm
 EX-10.7

EX10-7 

Exhibit 10.7 

CATERPILLAR INC. 
  SUPPLEMENTAL EMPLOYEES  
  INVESTMENT PLAN 
    
  (Amended and Restated as of December 17, 2013) 

Table of Contents 

ARTICLE I         DEFINITIONS 
    
  ARTICLE II        ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 
    
  ARTICLE III        DEFERRAL CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS 
    
  ARTICLE IV        VESTING 
    
  ARTICLE V        INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS 
    
  ARTICLE VI        DISTRIBUTIONS 
    
  ARTICLE VII    SPIN-OFF TO SDCP 
    
  ARTICLE VIII    ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
    
  ARTICLE IX        AMENDMENT 
    
  ARTICLE X        GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    
    i 

CATERPILLAR INC.  SUPPLEMENTAL EMPLOYEES  INVESTMENT PLAN 
  PREAMBLE 
    
  Effective October 14, 1987, Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) established the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan (the  Plan ).  The Plan has been amended and restated on a number of occasions.  By the execution of this document, the Company hereby amends and restates the Plan in its entirety, effective as of March 25, 2007.   
  In response to enactment of Section 409A of the Code and pursuant to Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 and other applicable guidance, the Company now desires to: (1) freeze the Plan to new participants; (2) cease Deferral Credits and Matching Credits under the Plan; (3) spin-off the amounts deferred by Participants on and after January 1, 2005 (including the related Matching credits and the related earnings/losses) to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, a plan designed to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; and (4) clarify certain provisions of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004.   
  This amendment and restated Plan is effective as of the dates specified herein. 
    
  ARTICLE I  DEFINITIONS 
  1.1        General  .  When a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall be a term defined in this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or phrase is defined for a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan document: 
  (a)           401(k) Plan      means the Caterpillar 401(k) Plan, as amended or any successor to such plan. 
  (b)           Adopting Affiliate      means any Affiliate that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and which has adopted the Plan.  All Affiliates that adopted the Plan on or before the Effective Date and that had not terminated such adoption shall continue to be Adopting Affiliates but no Affiliate that was not an Adopting Affiliate as of the Effective Date shall be permitted to adopt the Plan. 
  (c)           Affiliate      means a parent business that controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the Company. 
  (d)           Base Pay      means the base salary paid to a Participant as determined in accordance with the established pay practices of the Company and Adopting Affiliates.  Base Pay shall include any lump-sum base salary adjustment and any variable base pay. 
      1 

(e)           BFC      means the Benefit Funds Committee of the Company, which is the committee formed by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company, and which has the responsibility and authority to ensure the proper operation and management of the financial aspects of the 401(k) Plan. 
  (f)           Board      means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board. 
  (g)           Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.    
  (h)           Company      means Caterpillar Inc., and, to the extent provided in Section 10.8 (  Successors  ) below, any successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or consolidation into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company. 
  (i)           Company Stock      means common stock issued by the Company. 
  (j)           Company Stock Fund      means the Investment Fund described in Section 5.3 (  Special Company Stock Fund Provisions  ). 
  (k)           Deferral Credits      means the deferral credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.2 (  Deferral Credits  ). 
  (l)           Director      means the Company s Director of Compensation + Benefits. 
  (m)           Disability  or  Disabled      means that a Participant is  totally and permanently disabled  and eligible to receive long-term disability benefits pursuant to the terms and provisions of the long-term disability plan sponsored by the Company or an Affiliate in which the Participant participates. 
  (n)           Effective Date      means March 25, 2007. 
  (o)           Eligible Pay      means Base Pay minus any deferral credits made pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan. 
  (p)           ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (q)           Investment Fund      means the notional investment funds established by the terms of the Plan pursuant to Article V (  Investment of Accounts  ). 
  (r)           Matching Credits      means the matching credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.3 (  Matching Credits  ). 
      2 

(s)           Participant      means an employee of the Company or any Adopting Affiliate who had satisfied the eligibility requirements for participation in the Plan as of the Effective Date and who, as of such date, has amounts credited to his accounts under this Plan. 
  (t)           Plan      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan, as set forth herein and as it may be amended from time to time. 
  (u)           Plan Administrator    means the Director. 
  (v)           Plan Year      means the calendar year. 
  (w)           Post-1996 Deferrals      means the Deferral Credits made by a Participant on and after January 1, 1997 and before January 1, 2005 (including the earnings/losses thereon). 
  (x)           Post-2004 Deferrals      means the Deferral Credits and Matching Credits made by a Participant on and after January 1, 2005 determined pursuant to Section 7.2 (  Amounts Spun-Off  ). 
  (y)           SDCP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended.    
  (z)           Valuation Date      means each day of the Plan Year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading. 
  (aa)           GSCS      means Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC (f/k/a Caterpillar Logistics Services, Inc.). 
  (bb)           GSCS Participant      means a Participant who is employed by GSCS upon the closing of the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate.  
    
            (cc)       GSCS Closing Date       means the date on which the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate is completed.  
  1.2        Construction  .  The masculine gender, when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender (and vice versa), and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan clearly states to the contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the purpose of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the Plan.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any reason invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois without regard to conflict of law principles and shall be administered according to the laws of such state, except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other Federal law. 
      3 

ARTICLE II      ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 
    
  2.1      Existing Participants  .  Each individual who was a Participant in the Plan as of the Effective Date shall continue as such, subject to the provisions hereof. 
    
  2.2      New Participants  .  No individual shall become eligible to participate in the Plan after the Effective Date. 
    
  ARTICLE III      DEFERRAL CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS 
    
  3.1      Credits Ceased  .  Effective as of March 26, 2007, all credits (other than credits associated with the adjustment of accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 (  Adjustment of Accounts  ) to the Plan shall cease.  Participants shall not be permitted to make Deferral Credits and the Plan Administrator shall no longer allocate Matching Credits to Participants  accounts. 
    
  3.2      Deferral Credits  .  Immediately prior to March 26, 2007, Participants were permitted to defer the receipt of 6% of the Eligible Pay otherwise payable to the Participant by the Company or an Adopting Affiliate in any Plan Year.  A Participant s election to make Deferral Credits only applied to the Eligible Pay that was in excess of the dollar limit imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code during that Plan Year.  The deferrals made prior to March 26, 2007 were subject to the provisions of the Plan as in effect at the time the deferral election was made and such uniform and non-discriminatory rules as were adopted by the Plan Administrator in that regard. 
    
  3.3      Matching Credits  .  For periods ending on or before the Effective Date, the Plan Administrator allocated matching credits to the Participant s accounts in an amount equal to 100% of the Participant s Deferral  Credits.  
    
  ARTICLE IV      VESTING 
    
  4.1      Vesting  .  Subject to Section 10.1 (  Participant s Rights Unsecured  ), each Participant shall at all times be fully vested in all amounts credited to or allocable to his accounts hereunder and his rights and interest therein shall not be forfeitable. 
    
  ARTICLE V      INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS 
    
  5.1      Adjustment of Accounts  .  Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in the Plan, as of each Valuation Date, each Participant s accounts will be adjusted to reflect the positive or negative rate of return on the Investment Funds selected by the Participant pursuant to Section 5.2(b) (  Investment Direction - Participant Directions  ).  The rate of return will be determined by the Plan  
      4 

Administrator pursuant to Section 5.2(f) (  Investment Direction   Investment Performance  ) and will be credited or charged in accordance with policies applied uniformly to all Participants. 
    
  5.2      Investment Direction  . 
  (a)        Investment Funds  .  Each Participant may direct the notional investment of amounts credited to his Plan accounts in one or more of the Investment Funds.  The Investment Funds shall, at all times, be notional funds that track the returns of the investment funds selected by the BFC for purposes of the 401(k) Plan and made available to 401(k) Plan participants. In addition, the Investment Funds shall, at all times, include a Company Stock Fund as described in Section 5.3 (  Special Company Stock Fund Provisions  ).  Neither the Company, each Adopting Affiliate, the Plan Administrator, the BFC, nor any other party shall have any responsibility, duty of care (whether express or implied) or liability to any Participant in regards to designation of the Investment Funds as set forth in this Section 5.2(a). 
  (b)        Participant Directions  .  Each Participant may direct that all of the amounts attributable to his accounts be invested in a single Investment Fund or may direct that whole percentage increments of his accounts be invested in such fund or funds as he shall desire in accordance with such procedures as may be established by the Plan Administrator.  Unless the Plan Administrator prescribes otherwise, such procedures generally shall mirror the procedures established under the 401(k) Plan for participant investment direction. 
  (c)        Changes and Intra-Fund Transfers  .  Participant investment directions may be changed, and amounts may be transferred from one Investment Fund to another, in accordance with the procedures established by the Plan Administrator.  The designation will remain in effect until changed by the timely submission of a new designation by the Participant. 
  (d)        Default Selection  .  In the absence of a designation by the Participant, such Participant will be deemed to have directed the notional investment of his accounts in the Investment Fund that tracks the return of the 401(k) Plan investment fund that is designated by the BFC as the  default  investment fund for purposes of the 401(k) Plan. 
  (e)           Impact of Election  .  The Participant s selection of Investment Funds shall serve only as a measurement of the value of the Participant s Accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 (  Adjustment of Accounts  ) and this Section 5.2.  None of the Company, the BFC, or the Plan Administrator are required to actually invest a Participant s accounts in accordance with the Participant s selections. 
  (f)        Investment Performance  .  Accounts shall be adjusted on each Valuation Date to reflect investment gains and losses as if the accounts were invested in the Investment Funds selected by the Participants in accordance with this Section 5.2 and charged with any and all reasonable expenses as provided in paragraph (g) below.  The earnings and losses determined by the Plan Administrator in good faith and in his discretion pursuant to this Section 5.2 shall be binding and conclusive on the Participant, the Participant s beneficiary and all parties claiming through them. 
      5 

(g)        Charges  .  The Plan Administrator may (but is not required to) charge Participants  accounts for the reasonable expenses of administration including, but not limited to, carrying out and/or accounting for investment instructions directly related to such accounts. 
    
  5.3      Special Company Stock Fund Provisions  . 
    
  (a)      General  .  A Participant s interest in the Company Stock Fund shall be expressed in whole and fractional notional units of the Company Stock Fund.  The Company Stock Fund shall track an investment in Company Stock in the same manner as the 401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Accordingly, the value of a unit in the Plan s Company Stock Fund shall be the same as the value of a unit in the 401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and to the extent that a company stock fund is no longer maintained under the 401(k) Plan, the Plan Administrator shall establish such rules and procedures as are necessary to maintain the Company Stock Fund hereunder. 
    
  (b)      Investment Directions  .  A Participant s ability to direct investments into or out of the Company Stock Fund shall be subject to such procedures as the Plan Administrator may prescribe from time to time to assure compliance with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and other applicable requirements.  Such procedures also may limit or restrict a Participant s ability to make (or modify previously made) deferral and distribution elections pursuant to Articles III (  Deferral Credits and Matching Credits  ) and VI (  Distributions  ), respectively.  In furtherance, and not in limitation, of the foregoing, to the extent a Participant acquires any interest in an equity security under the Plan for purposes of Section 16(b), the Participant shall not dispose of that interest within six months, unless specifically exempted by Section 16(b) or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. 
    
  (c)      Compliance with Securities Laws  .  Any elections to transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be subject to all applicable securities law requirements, including but not limited to the last sentence of paragraph (b) above and Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission.  To the extent that any election violates any securities law requirement or the Company s stock trading policies and procedures, the election shall be void. 
    
  (d)      Compliance with Company Trading Policies and Procedures  .  Any elections to transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be subject to all Company Stock trading policies promulgated by the Company.  To the extent that any election violates any such trading policy or procedures, the election shall be void. 
    
  5.4      Application to Beneficiaries  .  Following the death of a Participant, the term  Participant  in this Article V shall refer to the Participant s beneficiary described in Section 6.5 (  Payment Upon Death  ). 
      6 

ARTICLE VI      DISTRIBUTIONS 
    
  6.1      General Right to Receive Distribution  .      Following termination of employment with the Company, death or Disability, the Participant s accounts will be distributed in the manner and at the time provided in Sections 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ) and 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ) or Section 6.5 (  Payment Upon Death  ), as applicable.  A transfer of a Participant from the Company or any Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment with the Company for purposes of this Article VI. 
    
  6.2      Amount of Distribution  .  The amount distributed to a Participant shall be based on the vested amounts credited to the Participant s accounts as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the date of the distribution.  Amounts shall be valued at the fair market value on the relevant Valuation Date determined pursuant to uniform and non-discriminatory procedures established by the Plan Administrator. 
    
  6.3      Form of Distribution  . 
    
  (a)      Default Form of Distribution  .  Accounts shall be distributed in cash in a single lump-sum payment.   
    
  (b)      Optional Form of Distribution  .  A Participant may elect to receive his distribution in the form of quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash installments for a period of up to fifteen years by filing an election with the Plan Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant to Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ).  If an election pursuant to this paragraph (b) of this Section 6.3 cannot be honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made in accordance with the most recent valid election made by the Participant that precedes the invalid election.  If no such election exists, distributions shall be made in a single Lump-Sum in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.3. 
    
  (c)      Change of Election  .  A Participant may change an installment distribution election by filing a new installment distribution election with the Plan Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant to Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ).  There shall be no limitation on the number of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance with this paragraph (c). 
    
  6.4      Timing of Distribution  .   
    
  (a)      Default Timing of Distribution  .  Accounts shall be distributed within an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability.     
    
      7 

(b)      Deferral of Distribution  .  A Participant may elect to defer the distribution of his accounts beyond his termination of employment, death or Disability by filing an election with the Plan Administrator: (1) while the Participant is employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (2) before the last Company business day of November in the year prior to the year during which the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability occurs.  If an election pursuant to this paragraph (b) cannot be honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made in accordance with the most recent valid election made by the Participant that precedes the invalid election.  If no such election exists, distributions shall be made within an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  
    
  (c)      Change of Election  .  An election made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 6.4 or election made effective as a result of paragraph (e)(1) of this Section 6.4 may be changed by the Participant by filing a new election with the Plan Administrator: (1) while the Participant is employed by the Company or an Adopting Affiliate and (2) before the last Company business day of November in the year prior to the year during which the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability occurs.  There shall be no limitation on the number of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance with this paragraph (c). 
    
  (d)      Date Elected By Participant  .  The date elected by a Participant pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 must be the first day of any calendar quarter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if as of the Effective Date, a Participant had made an election whereby the date of distribution elected is not the first day of a calendar quarter, such election shall be honored unless and until the Participant initiates a change to the timing of distribution pursuant to this Section 6.4 or the form of distribution pursuant to Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ). 
    
  (e)      Revocation of Election  . 
  (1)        Automatic Revocation  .  If, as of the distribution date elected by the Participant pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 the Participant, is: (i) employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (ii) not Disabled, such election shall be automatically revoked and distributions shall be made within an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the distribution date is automatically revoked pursuant to this paragraph (e)(1) and the distribution was to be made in the form of cash installments pursuant to Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ), the date of distribution shall be the first day of the next calendar quarter that is within an administratively feasible period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Nothing contained in this paragraph (e)(1) shall prevent a Participant from changing his election pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 6.4. 
  (2)        Election Irrevocable Following Termination of Employment  .  At all times following the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate, the Participant s elections made pursuant to this Section 6.4 shall be irrevocable.  
    
      8 

6.5      Payment Upon Death  . 
    
  (a)      Beneficiary Designation  .  If a Participant should die before receiving a full distribution of his Plan accounts, distribution shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the Participant, in accordance with such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time.  If a Participant has not designated a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, then the Participant s beneficiary shall be that person or persons entitled to receive distributions of the Participant s accounts under the 401(k) Plan. 
    
  (b)      Timing and Form of Payment to Beneficiary  . 
    
  (1)      Payments Commenced at Time of Death  .  If, at the time of the Participant s death, installment payments of the Participant s accounts have commenced pursuant to this Article VI, such payments shall continue to the Participant s beneficiary in the same time and the same form as if the Participant has remained alive until the last installment payment was scheduled to be made. 
    
  (2)      Payments Not Commenced at Time of Death  .   
  (i)        Default  .  If, at the time of the Participant s death, payments of the Participant s accounts have not commenced pursuant to this Article VI, the distributions made pursuant to this Section 6.5 shall be made to the Participant s beneficiary in accordance with the then current and valid distribution elections (as to timing and form) made by the Participant (or, in the absence of such distribution elections, in accordance with the  default  provisions of this Article VI). 
  (ii)        Separate Election  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything herein to the contrary, a Participant may make separate elections regarding the timing and form of payments to his beneficiary upon his death.  Such separate beneficiary elections shall be valid only if they meet the requirements of Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ) and Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ).  In addition, such separate beneficiary elections may be changed or revoked in accordance with Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ) and Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ).   
  (3)        No Changes Permitted by Beneficiary  .  In no event shall a beneficiary be permitted to change the time and/or form of payment relating to a Participant s accounts following such Participant s death either prior to or following such Participant s death. 
    
  6.6      Scheduled Distributions  .    The Plan as in effect prior to the Effective Date permitted a Participant to elect, at the time the Participant elected to make Deferral Credits, to schedule a distribution date for all or a portion of such Deferral Credits provided: (a) the distribution date scheduled by the Participant was the first day of any calendar quarter and (b) the distribution date scheduled by the Participant was at least four years later than the last day of the Plan Year that includes the Deferral Credits to which the election relates.  As of the Effective Date, no Participant had such a scheduled distribution election on file with the Plan Administrator.  Because Deferral Credits have ceased pursuant to Section 3.1 (  Credits Ceased  ) and because there are no scheduled  
      9 

distribution elections on file, the scheduled distribution provisions of the Plan as in effect prior to the Effective Date are now without effect.  
    
  6.7      Unscheduled Distributions  .    Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Participant may elect to receive a lump-sum cash distribution of his Plan accounts at any time while employed by the Company or an Affiliate in accordance with this Section 6.7 and the uniform and non-discriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator. 
    
  (a)      Amount of Distribution  .  A Participant may elect to receive five percent to one hundred percent (designated in whole percentages by the Participant) of his Post-1996 Deferrals.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the amount of the distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 be less than $10,000.00 (determined prior to the application of the forfeiture described in paragraph (b) below).  
    
  (b)      Forfeiture  .   Any distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall be subject to a forfeiture equal to 10% of the amount elected. 
    
  (c)      Election Applies to DEIP  .  An election for an unscheduled distribution pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall also apply as an election for an unscheduled distribution pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan. 
    
  6.8      Withholding  .  All distributions will be subject to all applicable tax and withholding requirements. 
    
  ARTICLE VII      SPIN-OFF TO SDCP 
    
  7.1      General  .  In response to the enactment of Section 409A of the Code and pursuant to transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury, Deferrals Credits and Matching Credits have been frozen and all amounts deferred and vested on and before December 31, 2004 are  grandfathered  and thus are not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.  The Deferral Credits and Matching Credits made pursuant to the Plan from January 1, 2005 through the Effective Date (including the earnings/losses thereon) will be spun-off to SDCP as provided in this Article VII. 
    
  7.2      Amounts Spun-Off  .  All amounts credited to participant accounts pursuant to this Plan on or after January 1, 2005 and through the Effective Date and not fully distributed on or before April 1, 2007 shall be spun-off and allocated to Plan accounts as provided in Section 7.3 (  Allocation of Amounts  ).  The amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2005 shall be determined in accordance with Q A-17 of I.R.S. Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury. 
    
  7.3      Allocation of Amounts  .  A Participant s Post-2004 Deferrals shall be allocated to the Participant s accounts in SDCP as provided therein. 
    
      10 

7.4      Deferral Elections  .  Deferral elections made by participants pursuant to the Plan for amounts to be deferred in 2007 following the Effective Date shall apply to SDCP as provided therein. 
    
  7.5      Effective Date of Spin-Off  .  The spin-off described in this Article VII shall be effective as of 11:59:59 P.M. on the Effective Date. 
    
  ARTICLE VIII      ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
    
  8.1      General Powers and Duties  .  The following list of powers and duties is not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan Administrator shall, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as he may deem advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless such powers or duties are expressly assigned to another pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 
    
  (a)      General  .  The Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and discretion given to him in the Plan document and by applicable law and his decisions and actions shall be final and conclusive as to all persons affected thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the Plan Administrator with all data and information that the Plan Administrator may reasonably require in order to perform his functions.  The Plan Administrator may rely without question upon any such data or information. 
    
  (b)      Disputes  .  Any and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be referred to the Plan Administrator and his decision shall be final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning, interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the Plan Administrator shall be final. 
    
  (c)      Agents  .  The Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist him and he may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 
    
  (d)      Insurance  .  At the Director s request, the Company shall purchase liability insurance to cover the Director in his activities as the Plan Administrator. 
    
  (e)      Allocations  .  The Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such responsibility has been allocated. 
    
  (f)      Records  .  The Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records by its agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the Plan.   
    
      11 

(g)      Interpretations  .  The Plan Administrator, in his sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 
  (h)        Electronic Administration  .  The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to, electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions or forms submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan calling for the submission of a written election, direction or form. 
  (i)        Accounts  .  The Plan Administrator shall combine the various accounts of a Participant if he deems such action appropriate.  Furthermore, the Plan Administrator shall divide a Participant s accounts into sub-accounts if he deems such action appropriate. 
  (j)        Delegation  .  The Plan Administrator may delegate his authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in his sole and absolute discretion. 
    
  8.2      Certain Exercise of Discretion Prohibited  .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan Administrator (or any other individual or entity to whom the power to exercise discretion hereunder is granted) shall not exercise the discretion granted in a manner that would create a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury) to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3, 2004. 
    
  8.3      Claims Procedures  .  Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA. 
    
  ARTICLE IX      AMENDMENT 

9.1      Amendment  .  The Company reserves the right at any time to amend, modify or suspend any or all of the provisions of this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time as designated by a written instrument duly adopted on behalf of the Company.  
    
  9.2      Effect of Amendment  .  Any amendment of the Plan shall not directly or indirectly reduce the balance of any Plan account as of the effective date of such amendment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything in this Plan to the contrary, any amendment to the Plan effective on or after October 3, 2004 that creates a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury) shall only be effective if such amendment expressly states an intent by the Company to materially modify the Plan (and thus subject it to Section 409A of the Code). 
    
      12 

9.3      Termination  .  To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company expressly reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time.  Pursuant to the foregoing and the provisions of Sections 9.1 and 9.2, the Plan is irrevocably terminated with respect to all GSCS Participants upon the GSCS Closing Date and no GSCS Participant shall accrue any benefits under the Plan for any purpose after the GSCS Closing Date.  Pursuant to termination of the Plan with respect to GSCS Participants pursuant to this Section 9.3, the balance in each GSCS Participant s account under the Plan shall be distributed to the GSCS Participant in a single lump-sum payment as soon as practicable after the GSCS Closing Date, but in no event later than December 31 next following the GSCS Closing Date.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the balance in each GSCS Participant s account shall be determined as of the Valuation Date occurring coincident with or next preceding the date of distribution.   
    
  ARTICLE X      GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    
  10.1      Participant s Rights Unsecured  .  The Plan at all times shall be entirely unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company for payment of any distributions hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her designated beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor a designated beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company.  All amounts credited to a Participant s accounts hereunder shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of the Company s insolvency. 
    
  10.2      No Guaranty of Benefits  .  Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or entity that the assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder. 
    
  10.3      No Enlargement of Employee Rights  .  No Participant shall have any right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
      13 

10.4      Section 409A  .   
    
  (a)      Material Modification  .  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, this amendment and restatement of the Plan does not, and is not intended to, create a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury) to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3, 2004 which would subject the Plan to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  This document shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with that intention. 
    
  (b)      Good Faith Compliance  .  The Deferral Credits and Matching Credits made from January 1, 2005 through the Effective Date (including the earnings/losses thereon) have been administered pursuant to the Plan in  good faith  compliance with Section 409A of the Code pursuant to transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury. 
    
  10.5      Spendthrift Provision  .  No interest of any person or entity in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such interest or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims in bankruptcy proceedings.  This Section shall not preclude arrangements for the withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or benefit payments, arrangements for the recovery of benefit overpayments, arrangements for the transfer of benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements for direct deposit of benefit payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan association or credit union (provided that such arrangement is not part of an arrangement constituting an assignment or alienation). 
    
  10.6      Domestic Relations Orders  .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, the Participant s accounts may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time. 
    
  10.7      Incapacity of Recipient  .  If the Plan Administrator is served with a court order holding that a person entitled to a distribution under the Plan is incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone payment until such time as a claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person.  The Plan Administrator is under no obligation to inquire or investigate as to the competency of any person entitled to a distribution.  Any payment to an appointed guardian or other legal representative under this Section shall be a payment for the account of the incapacitated person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefore. 
    
  10.8      Successors  .  The Plan shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon the heirs, beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who become Participants hereunder. 
    
      14 

10.9      Limitations on Liability  .  Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the Company, nor any individual acting as the Plan Administrator s, or the Company s employee, agent, or representative shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan. 
    
  10.10      Conflicts  .  If any person holds a position under the Plan through which he or she is charged with making a decision about the administration of his or her own (or any immediate family member s) Plan participation, including, without limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan investments, then such person shall be recused and the decision shall be made by the Plan Administrator.  If a decision is required regarding the administration of the Plan Administrator s Plan participation, including without limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan investments, such decision shall be made by the Company s Vice President, Human Services Division  .    Nothing in this Section 10.10 shall be construed to limit a Participant s or the Plan Administrator s ability to make decisions or elections with regard to his or her participation in the Plan in the same manner as other Participants. 
       
    10.11       Special Rules for Participants With Same-Sex Domestic Partners  .   
    
  (a)      Generally  .  Effective January 1, 2013, except as specified under this Section 10.11 or as prohibited by applicable law, to the extent the Plan provides for any benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation relating to, or upon, a Participant s  spouse ,  beneficiary ,  survivor , or  family member  (or any individual having a similar relationship to the Participant), the Plan Administrator shall also apply such benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation to a Participant s  same-sex domestic partner  (as defined in (b) below) in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner that is similar to how an opposite-gender spouse would be treated under the Plan. 
    
  (b)      Definition of  Same-Sex Domestic Partner   .  For purposes of this Section 10.11, the term  same-sex domestic partner  means the sole, same-sex person who is in a civil union, domestic partnership, or legal relationship similar thereto, with the Participant as recognized under the laws of the federal government or a state government of the United States of America, including its territories and possessions and the District of Columbia (or, with respect to any other country, legally recognized by the equivalent government(s) thereof).  The Plan shall continue to treat such relationship as a same-sex domestic partnership, regardless of whether the Participant and his same-sex domestic partner remain in the jurisdiction where the relationship was legally entered into.  In the event more than one person meets this definition for a given Participant, then the  same-sex domestic partner  shall be the person who first met the criteria in this definition.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law, no person will qualify as the Participant s same-sex domestic partner unless such Participant s marriage to such spouse is first lawfully dissolved.  Except with respect to determining the length of time the same-sex domestic partner has satisfied  
      15 

the definition of same-sex domestic partner under the Plan, a Participant shall be considered to have a same-sex domestic partner only with respect to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, regardless of when such same-sex partnership was created. 
    
  (c)      Domestic Relations Orders  .  Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law or another  alternate payee  (as defined under Section 414(p) of the Code) may enforce a domestic relations order against the Plan or a Participant s interests hereunder pursuant to Section 10.6. 

10.12      Determination of  spouse   .    Effective September 16, 2013, or as otherwise required under Internal Revenue Service guidance, the term  spouse  means the person who is the Participant s spouse for federal tax purposes pursuant to applicable Internal Revenue Service guidance. 
      16 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.11>
 4
 ex10-11.htm
 EX-10.11

EX10-11 

Exhibit 10.11  

CATERPILLAR INC. 
  DEFERRED EMPLOYEES  
  INVESTMENT PLAN 
    
  (Amended and Restated as of December 17, 2013) 

Table of Contents 

ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS 

ARTICLE II. ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION  

ARTICLE III. DEFERRAL CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS  

ARTICLE IV. VESTING 

ARTICLE V. INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS  

ARTICLE VI. DISTRIBUTIONS 

ARTICLE VII. SPIN-OFF TO SDCP  

ARTICLE VIII. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN  

ARTICLE IX.  AMENDMENT 

ARTICLE X.  GENERAL PROVISIONS 

i 

CATERPILLAR INC.  DEFERRED EMPLOYEES  INVESTMENT PLAN 
  PREAMBLE 
  Effective June 30, 1995, Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) established the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan (the  Plan ).  The Plan has been amended and restated on a number of occasions.  By the execution of this document, the Company hereby amends and restates the Plan in its entirety, effective as of March 25, 2007.  In response to enactment of Section 409A of the Code and pursuant to Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 and other applicable guidance, the Company now desires to: (1) freeze the Plan to new participants; (2) cease Deferral Credits and Matching Credits under the Plan; (3) spin-off the amounts deferred by Participants on and after January 1, 2005 (including the related Matching credits and the related earnings/losses) to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, a plan designed to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; and (4) clarify certain provisions of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004.  
    
  This amended and restated Plan is effective as of the dates specified herein. 
    
  ARTICLE I 
  DEFINITIONS 
    
  1.1        General  .      When a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall be a term defined in this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or phrase is defined for a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan document: 
  (a)           401(k) Plan      means the Caterpillar 401(k) Plan, as amended or any successor to such plan. 
  (b)           Adopting Affiliate      means any Affiliate that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and which has adopted the Plan.  All Affiliates that adopted the Plan on or before the Effective Date and that had not terminated such adoption shall continue to be Adopting Affiliates but no Affiliate that was not an Adopting Affiliate as of the Effective Date shall be permitted to adopt the Plan. 
  (c)           Affiliate      means a parent business that controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the Company. 
  (d)           Base Pay      means the base salary paid to a Participant as determined in accordance with the established pay practices of the Company and Adopting Affiliates.  Base Pay shall include any lump-sum base salary adjustment and any variable base pay. 
  (e)           BFC      means the Benefit Funds Committee of the Company, which is the committee formed by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company, and which has the responsibility and authority to ensure the proper operation and management of the financial aspects of the 401(k) Plan. 
  (f)           Board      means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board. 
    1 

(g)           Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (h)           Company      means Caterpillar Inc., and, to the extent provided in Section 10.8 (  Successors  ) below, any successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or consolidation into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company. 
  (i)           Company Stock      means common stock issued by the Company. 
  (j)           Company Stock Fund      means the Investment Fund described in Section 5.3 (  Special Company Stock Fund Provisions  ). 
  (k)           Deferral Credits      means the deferral credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.2 (  Deferral Credits  ). 
  (l)           Director      means the Company s Director of Compensation + Benefits. 
  (m)           Disability  or  Disabled      means that a Participant is  totally and permanently disabled  and eligible to receive long-term disability benefits pursuant to the terms and provisions of the long-term disability plan sponsored by the Company or an Affiliate in which the Participant participates. 
  (n)           Effective Date      means March 25, 2007. 
  (o)           ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (p)           ESTIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan, as amended or any predecessor or successor to such plan. 
  (q)           Incentive Compensation      means STIP Pay, LTCPP Pay and Lump-Sum Awards. 
  (r)            Investment Fund      means the notional investment funds established by the terms of the Plan pursuant to Article V (  Investment of Accounts  ). 
  (s)           LTCPP Pay      means the amounts designated by the Company as the cash-based performance award under the  Long-Term Cash Performance Plan  and paid pursuant to the terms of the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (or any predecessor to such plan). 
  (t)           Lump-Sum Award      means the discretionary lump-sum cash awards paid to employees pursuant to the uniform and nondiscriminatory pay practices of the Company or an Affiliate, but not including any lump-sum base salary adjustment. 
  (u)           Matching Credits      means the matching credits allocated to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.3 (  Matching Credits  ). 
  (v)           Participant      means an employee of the Company or any Adopting Affiliate who had satisfied the eligibility requirements for participation in the Plan as of March 31, 2007 and who, as of such date, has amounts credited to his accounts under this Plan. 
    2 

(w)           Plan      means the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan, as set forth herein and as it may be amended from time to time. 
  (x)           Plan Administrator      means the Director. 
  (y)           Plan Year      means the calendar year. 
  (z)           Post-1996 Deferrals      means the Deferral Credits made by a Participant on and after January 1, 1997 and before January 1, 2005 (including the earnings/losses thereon). 
  (aa)           Post-2004 Deferrals      means the Deferral Credits and Matching Credits made by a Participant on and after January 1, 2005 determined pursuant to Section 7.2 (  Amounts Spun-Off  ). 
  (bb)           SDCP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended.    
  (cc)           STIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan, as amended or any successor to such plan. 
  (dd)           STIP Pay      means amounts paid to employees of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate pursuant to the terms of STIP and/or ESTIP. 
  (ee)           Valuation Date      means each day of the Plan Year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading. 
  (ff)           GSCS      means Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC (f/k/a Caterpillar Logistics Services, Inc.). 
  (gg)           GSCS Participant      means a Participant who is employed by GSCS upon the closing of the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate. 
  (hh)       GSCS Closing Date      means the date on which the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate is completed. 
    
  1.2        Construction  .      The masculine gender, when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender (and vice versa), and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan clearly states to the contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the purpose of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the Plan.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any reason invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois without regard to conflict of law principles and shall be administered according to the laws of such state, except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other Federal law. 
      ARTICLE II 
  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 
    
  2.1        Existing Participants  .      Each individual who was a Participant in the Plan as of the Effective Date shall continue as such, subject to the provisions hereof. 
    3 

2.2        New Participants  .      No individual shall become eligible to participate in the Plan after the Effective Date. 
    
  ARTICLE III  DEFERRAL CREDITS AND MATCHING CREDITS 
    
  3.1        Credits Ceased  .      Effective as of March 26, 2007, all credits (other than credits associated with adjustment of accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 (  Adjustment of Accounts  ) to the Plan shall cease.  Participants shall not be permitted to make Deferral Credits and the Plan Administrator shall no longer allocate Matching Credits to Participants  accounts. 
  3.2        Deferral Credits  .      Immediately prior to March 26, 2007, Participants were permitted to elect to supplement the deferrals made pursuant to the 401(k) Plan by deferring the receipt of up to 70% (designated in whole percentages) of the Base Pay and Incentive Compensation otherwise payable to the Participant by the Company or an Adopting Affiliate in any Plan Year.  The deferrals made prior to March 26, 2007 were subject to the provisions of the Plan as in effect at the time the deferral election was made and such uniform and non-discriminatory rules as were adopted by the Plan Administrator in that regard. 
  3.3        Matching Credits  .      For periods ending on or before the Effective Date, the Plan Administrator allocated matching credits to the Participant s accounts in an amount equal to: (a) 6% of the Base Pay deferred by the Participant as Deferral Credits and (b) 100% of the STIP Pay and Lump-Sum Awards deferred by the Participant as Deferral Credits (up to a maximum of 6% of the Participant s STIP Pay and Lump-Sum Awards for the relevant Plan Year).  LTCPP Pay deferred by the Participant as Deferral Credits was not considered when determining Matching Credits.   
  ARTICLE IV 
  VESTING 
    
  4.1        Vesting  .      Subject to Section 10.1 (  Participant s Rights Unsecured  ), each Participant shall at all times be fully vested in all amounts credited to or allocable to his accounts hereunder and his rights and interest therein shall not be forfeitable. 
      ARTICLE V 
  INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS 
    
  5.1        Adjustment of Accounts  .      Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in the Plan, as of each Valuation Date, each Participant s accounts will be adjusted to reflect the positive or negative rate of return on the Investment Funds selected by the Participant pursuant to Section 5.2(b) (  Investment Direction - Participant Directions  ).  The rate of return will be determined by the Plan Administrator pursuant to Section 5.2(f) (  Investment Direction   Investment Performance  ) and will be credited or charged in accordance with policies applied uniformly to all Participants. 
    4 

5.2        Investment Direction  .   
  (a)        Investment Funds  .  Each Participant may direct the notional investment of amounts credited to his Plan accounts in one or more of the Investment Funds.  The Investment Funds shall, at all times, be notional funds that track the returns of the investment funds selected by the BFC for purposes of the 401(k) Plan and made available to 401(k) Plan participants.  In addition, the Investment Funds shall, at all times, include a Company Stock Fund as described in Section 5.3 (  Special Company Stock Fund Provisions  ). Neither the Company, each Adopting Affiliate, the Plan Administrator, the BFC, nor any other party shall have any responsibility, duty of care (whether express or implied) or liability to any Participant in regards to designation of the Investment Funds as set forth in this Section 5.2(a). 
  (b)        Participant Directions  .  Each Participant may direct that all of the amounts attributable to his accounts be invested in a single Investment Fund or may direct that whole percentage increments of his accounts be invested in such fund or funds as he shall desire in accordance with such procedures as may be established by the Plan Administrator.  Unless the Plan Administrator prescribes otherwise, such procedures generally shall mirror the procedures established under the 401(k) Plan for participant investment direction. 
  (c)        Changes and Intra-Fund Transfers  .  Participant investment directions may be changed, and amounts may be transferred from one Investment Fund to another, in accordance with the procedures established by the Plan Administrator.  The designation will remain in effect until changed by the timely submission of a new designation by the Participant. 
  (d)        Default Selection  .  In the absence of a designation by the Participant, such Participant will be deemed to have directed the notional investment of his accounts in the Investment Fund that tracks the return of the 401(k) Plan investment fund that is designated by the BFC as the  default  investment fund for purposes of the 401(k) Plan. 
  (e)           Impact of Election  .  The Participant s selection of Investment Funds shall serve only as a measurement of the value of the Participant s Accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 (  Adjustment of Accounts  ) and this Section 5.2.  None of the Company, the BFC, or the Plan Administrator are required to actually invest a Participant s accounts in accordance with the Participant s selections. 
  (f)        Investment Performance  .  Accounts shall be adjusted on each Valuation Date to reflect investment gains and losses as if the accounts were invested in the Investment Funds selected by the Participants in accordance with this Section 5.2 and charged with any and all reasonable expenses as provided in paragraph (g) below.  The earnings and losses determined by the Plan Administrator in good faith and in his discretion pursuant to this Section 5.2 shall be binding and conclusive on the Participant, the Participant s beneficiary and all parties claiming through them. 
  (g)        Charges  .  The Plan Administrator may (but is not required to) charge Participants  accounts for the reasonable expenses of administration including, but not limited to, carrying out and/or accounting for investment instructions directly related to such accounts. 
    5 

5.3        Special Company Stock Fund Provisions  .   
  (a)        General  .  A Participant s interest in the Company Stock Fund shall be expressed in whole and fractional notional units of the Company Stock Fund.  The Company Stock Fund shall track an investment in Company Stock in the same manner as the 401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Accordingly, the value of a unit in the Plan s Company Stock Fund shall be the same as the value of a unit in the 401(k) Plan s company stock fund.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and to the extent that a company stock fund is no longer maintained under the 401(k) Plan, the Plan Administrator shall establish such rules and procedures as are necessary to maintain the Company Stock Fund hereunder. 
  (b)        Investment Directions  .  A Participant s ability to direct investments into or out of the Company Stock Fund shall be subject to such procedures as the Plan Administrator may prescribe from time to time to assure compliance with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and other applicable requirements.  Such procedures also may limit or restrict a Participant s ability to make (or modify previously made) deferral and distribution elections pursuant to Articles III (  Deferral Credits and Matching Credits  ) and VI (  Distributions  ), respectively.  In furtherance, and not in limitation, of the foregoing, to the extent a Participant acquires any interest in an equity security under the Plan for purposes of Section 16(b), the Participant shall not dispose of that interest within six months, unless specifically exempted by Section 16(b) or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (c)        Compliance with Securities Laws  .  Any elections to transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be subject to all applicable securities law requirements, including but not limited to the last sentence of paragraph (b) above and Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission.  To the extent that any election violates any securities law requirement or the Company s stock trading policies and procedures, the election shall be void. 
  (d)        Compliance with Company Trading Policies and Procedures  .  Any elections to transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be subject to all Company Stock trading policies promulgated by the Company.  To the extent that any election violates any such trading policy or procedures, the election shall be void. 
  5.4        Application to Beneficiaries  .      Following the death of a Participant, the term  Participant  in this Article V shall refer to the Participant s beneficiary described in Section 6.5 (  Payment Upon Death  ). 
  ARTICLE VI 
  DISTRIBUTIONS 
    
  6.1        General Right to Receive Distribution      Following termination of employment with the Company, death or Disability, the Participant s accounts will be distributed in the manner and at the time provided in Sections 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ) and 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ) or Section 6.5 (  Payment Upon Death  ), as applicable.  A transfer of a Participant from the Company or any Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment with the Company for purposes of this Article VI. 
  6.2        Amount of Distribution  .      The amount distributed to a Participant shall be based on the vested amounts credited to the Participant s accounts as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the  
    6 

date of the distribution.  Amounts shall be valued at the fair market value on the relevant Valuation Date determined pursuant to uniform and non-discriminatory procedures established by the Plan Administrator. 
  6.3        Form of Distribution  .   
  (a)        Default Form of Distribution  .  Accounts shall be distributed in cash in a single lump-sum payment.   
  (b)        Optional Form of Distribution  .  A Participant may elect to receive his distribution in the form of quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash installments for a period of up to fifteen years by filing an election with the Plan Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant to Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ).  If an election pursuant to this paragraph (b) of this Section 6.3 cannot be honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made in accordance with the most recent valid election made by the Participant that precedes the invalid election.  If no such election exists, distributions shall be made in a single Lump-Sum in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.3. 
  (c)        Change of Election  .  A Participant may change an installment distribution election by filing a new installment distribution election with the Plan Administrator before the last Company business day of November of the second year that precedes the year the distribution is scheduled to commence pursuant to Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ).  There shall be no limitation on the number of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance with this paragraph (c). 
  6.4        Timing of Distribution  .   
  (a)        Default Timing of Distribution  .  Accounts shall be distributed within an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability. 
  (b)        Deferral of Distribution  .  A Participant may elect to defer the distribution of his accounts beyond his termination of employment, death or Disability by filing an election with the Plan Administrator: (1) while the Participant is employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (2) before the last Company business day of November in the year prior to the year during which the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability occurs.  If an election pursuant to this paragraph (b) cannot be honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made in accordance with the most recent valid election made by the Participant that precedes the invalid election.  If no such election exists, distributions shall be made within an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  
  (c)        Change of Election  .  An election made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 6.4 or election made effective as a result of paragraph (e)(1) of this Section 6.4 may be changed by the Participant by filing a new election with the Plan Administrator: (1) while the Participant is employed by the Company or an Adopting Affiliate and (2) before the last Company business day of November in the year prior to the year during which the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability occurs.  There shall be no limitation on the number of times that a Participant may change his election in accordance with this paragraph (c). 
  (d)        Date Elected By Participant  .  The date elected by a Participant pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 must be the first day of any calendar quarter.  Notwithstanding the  
    7 

foregoing, if as of the Effective Date, a Participant had made an election whereby the date of distribution elected is not the first day of a calendar quarter, such election shall be honored unless and until the Participant initiates a change to the timing of distribution pursuant to this Section 6.4 or the form of distribution pursuant to Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ). 
  (e)        Revocation of Election  .   
  (1)        Automatic Revocation  .  If, as of the distribution date elected by the Participant pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this Section 6.4 the Participant, is: (i) employed by the Company or an Affiliate and (ii) not Disabled, such election shall be automatically revoked and distributions shall be made within an administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the distribution date is automatically revoked pursuant to this paragraph (e)(1) and the distribution was to be made in the form of cash installments pursuant to Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ), the date of distribution shall be the first day of the next calendar quarter that is within an administratively feasible period of time following the Participant s termination of employment, death or Disability in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.  Nothing contained in this paragraph (e)(1) shall prevent a Participant from changing his election pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 6.4. 
  (2)        Election Irrevocable Following Termination of Employment  .  At all times following the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate, the Participant s elections made pursuant to this Section 6.4 shall be irrevocable.  
  6.5        Payment Upon Death  .   
  (a)        Beneficiary Designation  .  If a Participant should die before receiving a full distribution of his Plan accounts, distribution shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the Participant, in accordance with such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time.  If a Participant has not designated a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, then the Participant s beneficiary shall be that person or persons entitled to receive distributions of the Participant s accounts under the 401(k) Plan. 
  (b)        Timing and Form of Payment to Beneficiary  . 
  (1)        Payments Commenced at Time of Death  .  If, at the time of the Participant s death, installment payments of the Participant s accounts have commenced pursuant to this Article VI, such payments shall continue to the Participant s beneficiary in the same time and the same form as if the Participant has remained alive until the last installment payment was scheduled to be made. 
  (2)        Payments Not Commenced at Time of Death  .   
  (i)        Default  .  If, at the time of the Participant s death, payments of the Participant s accounts have not commenced pursuant to this Article VI, the distributions made pursuant to this Section 6.5 shall be made to the Participant s beneficiary in accordance with the then current and valid distribution elections (as to timing and form) made by the Participant (or, in the absence of such distribution elections, in accordance with the  default  provisions of this Article VI). 
  (ii)        Separate Election  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything herein to the contrary, a Participant may make separate elections regarding the timing and form of payments  
    8 

to his beneficiary upon his death.  Such separate beneficiary elections shall be valid only if they meet the requirements of Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ) and Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ).  In addition, such separate beneficiary elections may be changed or revoked in accordance with Section 6.3 (  Form of Distribution  ) and Section 6.4 (  Timing of Distribution  ). 
  (3)        No Changes Permitted by Beneficiary  .  In no event shall a beneficiary be permitted to change the time and/or form of payment relating to a Participant s accounts following such Participant s death either prior to or following such Participant s death. 
  6.6        Scheduled Distributions  .    The Plan as in effect prior to the Effective Date permitted a Participant to elect, at the time the Participant elected to make Deferral Credits, to schedule a distribution date for all or a portion of such Deferral Credits provided: (a) the distribution date scheduled by the Participant was the first day of any calendar quarter and (b) the distribution date scheduled by the Participant was at least four years later than the last day of the Plan Year that includes the Deferral Credits to which the election relates.  As of the Effective Date, no Participant had such a scheduled distribution election on file with the Plan Administrator.  Because Deferral Credits have ceased pursuant to Section 3.1 (  Credits Ceased  ) and because there are no scheduled distribution elections on file, the scheduled distribution provisions of the Plan as in effect prior to the Effective Date are now without effect.  
  6.7        Unscheduled Distributions  .    Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Participant may elect to receive a lump-sum cash distribution of his Plan accounts at any time while employed by the Company or an Affiliate in accordance with this Section 6.7 and the uniform and non-discriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator. 
  (a)        Amount of Distribution  .  A Participant may elect to receive five percent to one hundred percent (designated in whole percentages by the Participant) of his Post-1996 Deferrals.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the amount of the distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 be less than $10,000.00 (determined prior to the application of the forfeiture described in paragraph (b) below).  
  (b)        Forfeiture  .   Any distribution made pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall be subject to a forfeiture equal to 10% of the amount elected. 
  (c)        Election Applies to SEIP  .  An election for an unscheduled distribution pursuant to this Section 6.7 shall also apply as an election for an unscheduled distribution pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan. 
  6.8        Withholding  .      All distributions will be subject to all applicable tax and withholding requirements. 
      ARTICLE VII 
  SPIN-OFF TO SDCP 
    
  7.1        General  .      In response to the enactment of Section 409A of the Code and pursuant to transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury, Deferrals Credits and Matching Credits have been frozen and all amounts deferred and vested on and before December 31, 2004 are  grandfathered  and thus are not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.  The Deferral  
    9 

Credits and Matching Credits made pursuant to the Plan from January 1, 2005 through the Effective Date (including the earnings/losses thereon) will be spun-off to SDCP as provided in this Article VII. 
  7.2        Amounts Spun-Off  .      All amounts credited to participant accounts pursuant to this Plan on or after January 1, 2005 and through the Effective Date and not fully distributed on or before April 1, 2007 shall be spun-off and allocated to Plan accounts as provided in Section 7.3 (  Allocation of Amounts  ).  The amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2005 shall be determined in accordance with Q A-17 of I.R.S. Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury.  
  7.3        Allocation of Amounts  .      A Participant s Post-2004 Deferrals shall be allocated to the Participant s accounts in SDCP as provided therein. 
  7.4        Deferral Elections  .  Deferral elections made by participants pursuant to the Plan for amounts to be deferred in 2007 following the Effective Date shall apply to SDCP as provided therein. 
  7.5        Effective Date of Spin-Off  .      The spin-off described in this Article VII shall be effective as of 11:59:59 P.M. on the Effective Date. 
      ARTICLE VIII 
  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
    
  8.1        General Powers and Duties  .      The following list of powers and duties is not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan Administrator shall, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as he may deem advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless such powers or duties are expressly assigned to another pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 
  (a)        General  .  The Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and discretion given to him in the Plan document and by applicable law and his decisions and actions shall be final and conclusive as to all persons affected thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the Plan Administrator with all data and information that the Plan Administrator may reasonably require in order to perform his functions.  The Plan Administrator may rely without question upon any such data or information. 
  (b)        Disputes  .  Any and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be referred to the Plan Administrator and his decision shall be final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning, interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the Plan Administrator shall be final. 
  (c)        Agents  .  The Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist him and he may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 
  (d)        Insurance  .  At the Director s request, the Company shall purchase liability insurance to cover the Director in his activities as the Plan Administrator. 
    10 

(e)        Allocations  .  The Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such responsibility has been allocated. 
  (f)        Records  .  The Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records by its agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the Plan.   
  (g)        Interpretations  .  The Plan Administrator, in his sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 
  (h)        Electronic Administration  .  The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to, electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions or forms submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan calling for the submission of a written election, direction or form. 
  (i)        Accounts  .  The Plan Administrator shall combine the various accounts of a Participant if he deems such action appropriate.  Furthermore, the Plan Administrator shall divide a Participant s accounts into sub-accounts if he deems such action appropriate. 
  (j)        Delegation  .  The Plan Administrator may delegate his authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in his sole and absolute discretion. 
  8.2        Certain Exercise of Discretion Prohibited  .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan Administrator (or any other individual or entity to whom the power to exercise discretion hereunder is granted) shall not exercise the discretion granted in a manner that would create a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury) to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3, 2004. 
  8.3        Claims Procedures  .  Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA. 
  ARTICLE IX 
  AMENDMENT 
    
  9.1        Amendment  .    The Company reserves the right at any time to amend,   modify or suspend any or all of the provisions of this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time as designated by a written instrument duly adopted on behalf of the Company. 
  9.2        Effect of Amendment  .      Any amendment of the Plan shall not directly or indirectly reduce the balance of any Plan account as of the effective date of such amendment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything in this Plan to the contrary, any amendment to the Plan effective on or after October 3, 2004 that creates a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury) shall only be effective if such  
    11 

amendment expressly states an intent by the Company to materially modify the Plan (and thus subject it to Section 409A of the Code). 
  9.3        Termination  .      To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company expressly reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time. Pursuant to the foregoing and the provisions of Sections 9.1 and 9.2, the Plan is irrevocably terminated with respect to all GSCS Participants upon the GSCS Closing Date and no GSCS Participant shall accrue any benefits under the Plan for any purpose after the GSCS Closing Date.  Pursuant to termination of the Plan with respect to GSCS Participants pursuant to this Section 9.3, the balance in each GSCS Participant s account under the Plan shall be distributed to the GSCS Participant in a single lump-sum payment as soon as practicable after the GSCS Closing Date, but in no event later than December 31 next following the GSCS Closing Date.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the balance in each GSCS Participant s account shall be determined as of the Valuation Date occurring coincident with or next preceding the date of distribution. 
      ARTICLE X 
  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    
  10.1        Participant s Rights Unsecured  .      The Plan at all times shall be entirely unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company for payment of any distributions hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her designated beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor a designated beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company.  All amounts credited to a Participant s accounts hereunder shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of the Company s insolvency. 
  10.2        No Guaranty of Benefits  .      Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or entity that the assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder. 
  10.3        No Enlargement of Employee Rights  .      No Participant shall have any right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
  10.4        Section 409A  .     
  (a)        Material Modification  .  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, this amendment and restatement of the Plan does not, and is not intended to, create a  material modification  (as determined pursuant to Notice 2005-1 and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury) to the Plan as it was in effect on October 3, 2004 which would subject the Plan to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  This document shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with that intention. 
  (b)        Good Faith Compliance  .  The Deferral Credits and Matching Credits made from January 1, 2005 through the Effective Date (including the earnings/losses thereon) have been administered  
    12 

pursuant to the Plan in  good faith  compliance with Section 409A of the Code pursuant to transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury. 
  10.5        Spendthrift Provision  .      No interest of any person or entity in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such interest or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims in bankruptcy proceedings.  This Section shall not preclude arrangements for the withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or benefit payments, arrangements for the recovery of benefit overpayments, arrangements for the transfer of benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements for direct deposit of benefit payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan association or credit union (provided that such arrangement is not part of an arrangement constituting an assignment or alienation). 
  10.6        Domestic Relations Orders  .      Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, the Participant s accounts may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time. 
  10.7        Incapacity of Recipient  .      If the Plan Administrator is served with a court order holding that a person entitled to a distribution under the Plan is incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone payment until such time as a claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person.  The Plan Administrator is under no obligation to inquire or investigate as to the competency of any person entitled to a distribution.  Any payment to an appointed guardian or other legal representative under this Section shall be a payment for the account of the incapacitated person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefore. 
  10.8        Successors  .      The Plan shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon the heirs, beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who become Participants hereunder. 
  10.9        Limitations on Liability  .      Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the Company, nor any individual acting as the Plan Administrator s, or the Company s employee, agent, or representative shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan. 
  10.10        Conflicts  .      If any person holds a position under the Plan through which he or she is charged with making a decision about the administration of his or her own (or any immediate family member s) Plan participation, including, without limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan investments, then such person shall be recused and the decision shall be made by the Plan Administrator.  If a decision is required regarding the administration of the Plan Administrator s Plan participation, including without limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan investments, such decision shall be made by the Company s Vice President, Human Services Division  .    Nothing in this Section 10.10 shall be construed to limit a Participant s or the Plan Administrator s ability to make decisions or elections with regard to his or her participation in the Plan in the same manner as other Participants. 
    
    13 

10.11        Special Rules for Participants With Same-Sex Domestic Partners  . 
  (a)      Generally.  Effective January 1, 2013, except as specified under this Section 10.11 or as prohibited by applicable law, to the extent the Plan provides for any benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation relating to, or upon, a Participant s  spouse ,  beneficiary ,  survivor , or  family member  (or any individual having a similar relationship to the Participant), the Plan Administrator shall also apply such benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation to a Participant s  same-sex domestic partner  (as defined in (b) below) in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner that is similar to how an opposite-gender spouse would be treated under the Plan. 
  (b)        Definition of  Same-Sex Domestic Partner  .  For purposes of this Section 10.11, the term  same-sex domestic partner  means the sole, same-sex person who is in a civil union, domestic partnership, or legal relationship similar thereto, with the Participant as recognized under the laws of the federal government or a state government of the United States of America, including its territories and possessions and the District of Columbia (or, with respect to any other country, legally recognized by the equivalent government(s) thereof).  The Plan shall continue to treat such relationship as a same-sex domestic partnership, regardless of whether the Participant and his same-sex domestic partner remain in the jurisdiction where the relationship was legally entered into.  In the event more than one person meets this definition for a given Participant, then the  same-sex domestic partner  shall be the person who first met the criteria in this definition.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law, no person will qualify as the Participant s same-sex domestic partner unless such Participant s marriage to such spouse is first lawfully dissolved.  Except with respect to determining the length of time the same-sex domestic partner has satisfied the definition of same-sex domestic partner under the Plan, a Participant shall be considered to have a same-sex domestic partner only with respect to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, regardless of when such same-sex partnership was created. 
  (c)        Domestic Relations Orders  .  Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law or another  alternate payee  (as defined under Section 414(p) of the Code) may enforce a domestic relations order against the Plan or a Participant s interests hereunder pursuant to Section 10.6. 
  10.12      Determination of  spouse .      Effective September 16, 2013, or as otherwise required under Internal Revenue Service Guidance, the term  spouse  means the person who is the Participant s spouse for federal tax purposes pursuant to applicable Internal Revenue Service guidance.  
    
    14 

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.12>
 5
 ex10-12.htm
 EX-10.12

EX10-12 

Exhibit 10.12 

CATERPILLAR INC. 
  SUPPLEMENTAL DEFERRED  
  COMPENSATION PLAN 

(Amended and Restated as of December 17, 2013) 

Table of Contents 

ARTICLE I 
    DEFINITIONS 
      ARTICLE II 
    ELIGIBILITY; ADOPTION BY AFFILIATES 
      ARTICLE III 
    DEFERRALS, MATCHING AND NON-ELECTIVE CONTRIBUTION CREDITS 
      ARTICLE IV 
    VESTING 
      ARTICLE V 
    INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS 
      ARTICLE VI 
    DISTRIBUTIONS 
      ARTICLE VII 
    SPIN-OFF FROM SEIP AND DEIP 
      ARTICLE VIII 
    ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
      ARTICLE IX 
    AMENDMENT 
      ARTICLE X 
    GENERAL PROVISIONS 

i 

CATERPILLAR INC.  SUPPLEMENTAL DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  PREAMBLE 
    
  By a document executed March 21, 2007, Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) established the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ), effective January 1, 2005. The purpose of the Plan is to provide additional income deferral and investment opportunities to a select group of management or highly compensated employees who are eligible to participate in certain tax-qualified 401(k) plans sponsored by the Company.  Subsequent to the establishment of the Plan, final regulations were promulgated under Section 409A of the Code, necessitating changes to the Plan retroactive to its adoption which were reflected in a document executed by the Company on December 17, 2007.  The Company now desires to amend the Plan to reflect certain changes to the tax-qualified 401(k) plans sponsored by the Company.   
  This amended and restated Plan is effective as of the dates stated herein. 

ARTICLE I  DEFINITIONS 
  1.1        General  .    When a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be a term defined in this Article I.  The following words and phrases used in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized shall have the meanings set forth in this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or phrase is defined for a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan document: 
  (a)           401(k) Plan      means either: the 401(k) Retirement Plan or the 401(k) Savings Plan depending upon which plan the Participant is eligible to make elective deferrals (without regard to the limitations of Sections 402(g) or 401(a)(17) of the Code) or to receive Company non-elective contributions as of the date the Participant s corresponding credits under this Plan are determined. 
  (b)           401(k) Plan Compensation      means the Base Pay and Incentive Compensation taken into account for purposes of the Company non-elective contributions under the 401(k) Plan. 
  (c)           401(k) Retirement Plan      means the     Caterpillar 401(k) Retirement Plan, as such plan may be amended or any successor to such plan. 
  (d)           401(k) Savings Plan    means the Caterpillar 401(k) Savings Plan, as such plan may be amended or any successor to such plan. 

(e)           Adopting Affiliate      means any Affiliate that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and which has adopted the Plan in accordance with Section 2.4.  All Affiliates that adopted the Plan on or before the Effective Date and that had not terminated such adoption shall continue to be Adopting Affiliates of the Plan. 
  (f)           Affiliate      means a parent business that controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the Company.  
  (g)           Base Pay      means the base salary paid to a Participant as determined in accordance with the established pay practices of the Company and Adopting Affiliates.  Base Pay shall include any lump-sum base salary adjustment and any variable base pay.  
  (h)           BFC      means the Benefit Funds Committee of the Company, which is the committee formed by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company, and which has the responsibility and authority to ensure the proper operation and management of the financial aspects of the 401(k) Plan.  
  (i)           Board      means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board.  
  (j)           Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.  
  (k)           Company      means Caterpillar Inc., and, to the extent provided in Section 10.8 below, any successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or consolidation into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company.  
  (l)           Company Stock      means common stock issued by the Company.  
  (m)           Company Stock Fund      means the Investment Fund described in Section 5.3.  
  (n)           Deferral Agreement      means the deferral agreement(s) described in Section 3.1 that are entered into by a Participant pursuant to the Plan.  
  (o)           DEIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees  Investment Plan, as amended.  
  (p)           Director      means the Company s Director of Compensation + Benefits.  
  (q)           Disability  or  Disabled      means that a Participant is determined to be totally disabled by the United States Social Security Administration.  
  (r)           Distribution Election Form      means the election form by which a Participant elects the time and manner in which his accounts shall be distributed pursuant to Sections 6.4 and 6.5.  The Plan Administrator may, in his sole discretion, require two separate Distribution  
    2 

Election Forms for purposes of making distributions regarding the time and manner in which accounts will be distributed, respectively.  
  (s)           Effective Date      means January 1, 2011, except as otherwise provided herein. 
  (t)           Eligible Pay      means Base Pay minus any Supplemental Deferrals of Base Pay. 
  (u)           Excess Deferral Account      means the bookkeeping account maintained pursuant to the Plan to record amounts deferred under Section 3.3(b).  
  (v)           Excess Deferrals      means the deferrals allocated to a Participant s Excess Deferral Account in accordance with Section 3.3(b).  
  (w)           Excess Matching Credit Account      means the bookkeeping account maintained pursuant to the Plan to record the amounts credited to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.4(b).  
  (x)           Excess Matching Credits      means the matching credits allocated to a Participant s Excess Matching Credit Account in accordance with Section 3.4(b).  
  (y)           ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.  
  (z)           ESTIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan, as amended or any predecessor or successor to such plan.  
  (aa)           Incentive Compensation      means STIP Pay, LTCPP Pay and Lump-Sum Awards.     
  (bb)           Investment Fund      means the notional investment funds established by the terms of the Plan pursuant to Article V.  
  (cc)           LTCPP Pay      means the amounts designated by the Company as a cash-based performance award under the  Long-Term Cash Performance Plan  and paid pursuant to the terms of the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (or any successor to such plan).  Performance awards under the  Long-Term Cash Performance Plan  that are paid pursuant to the terms of the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (or any successor to such plan) in the form of Company Stock are not LTCPP Pay hereunder.  
  (dd)           Lump-Sum Award      means the discretionary lump-sum cash awards paid to employees pursuant to the uniform and nondiscriminatory pay practices of the Company or an Affiliate, but not including any lump-sum base salary adjustment.  
  (ee)           Maximum Matching Contribution Percentage      means 100% if the Participant participates in the 401(k) Retirement Plan and 50% if the Participant participates in the  
    3 

401(k) Savings Plan.  For purposes of this Section 1.1(ee), an individual participates in a plan if such individual is eligible to make elective deferrals under such plan (without regard to the limitations of Sections 402(g) or 401(a)(17) of the Code). 
  (ff)           NEC Eligible Pay      means the sum of Base Pay and Incentive Compensation minus the sum of LTCPP Pay and 401(k) Plan Compensation. The Plan Administrator shall determine NEC Eligible Pay for all Participants in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner. 
  (gg)           Non-Elective Contribution Account      means the bookkeeping account maintained pursuant to the Plan to record amounts credited under Section 3.5.  
  (hh)           Non-Elective Contribution Credits      means the non-elective contribution credits allocated to a Participant s Non-Elective Contribution Account in accordance with Section 3.5. 
  (ii)           Participant      means an employee of the Company or any Adopting Affiliate who satisfies the eligibility requirements for participation in the Plan and who affirmatively elects to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.1, or who becomes a Participant pursuant to Section 3.2(c)(2) or Section 3.9(c). 
  (jj)           Plan      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, as set forth herein and as it may be amended from time to time.  
  (kk)           Plan Administrator      means the Director.  
  (ll)           Plan Year      means the calendar year. 
  (mm)           Points      means  Points  as such term is defined under the 401(k) Plan. 
  (nn)            Qualified Military Service      means service by a Participant or employee in the armed forces of the United States of a character that entitles the Participant or employee to re-employment under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, but only if the Participant or employee is re-employed during the period following such service in which his right of re-employment is protected by such Act.  
  (oo)           SEIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees  Investment Plan, as amended.  
  (pp)           Separation from Service      means separation from service as determined in accordance with any regulations, rulings or other guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury pursuant to Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code, as it may be amended or replaced from time to time. 
  (qq)           Specified Employee      means a  key employee  as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to Section 416(i)(5) and determined in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code. 
    4 

(rr)           Supplemental Deferral Account      means the bookkeeping account maintained pursuant to the Plan to record amounts deferred under Section 3.3(a).  
  (ss)           Supplemental Deferrals      means the deferrals allocated to a Participant s Supplemental Deferral Account in accordance with Section 3.3(a).  
  (tt)           Supplemental Matching Credit Account      means the bookkeeping account maintained pursuant to the Plan to record the amounts credited to a Participant in accordance with Section 3.4(a).  
  (uu)           Supplemental Matching Credits      means the matching credits allocated to a Participant s Supplemental Matching Credit Account in accordance with Section 3.4(a).  
  (vv)           STIP      means the Caterpillar Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan, as amended or any successor to such plan.  
  (ww)           STIP Pay      means amounts paid to employees of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate pursuant to the terms of STIP and/or ESTIP.  
  (xx)           Unforeseeable Emergency      means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code) of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.  For purposes of the Plan, an  Unforeseeable Emergency  shall not include a Participant s need to send his or her child to college or a Participant s desire to purchase a home. Any determination as to whether a Participant has incurred an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be made in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator in accordance with rules prescribed pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.  
  (yy)           Valuation Date       means each day of the Plan Year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading. 
  (zz)           GSCS      means Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC (f/k/a Caterpillar Logistics Services, Inc.). 
  (aaa)       GSCS Participant      means a Participant who is employed by GSCS upon the closing of the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate. 
  (bbb  )         GSCS Closing Date      means the date on which the sale of GSCS to an entity that is not an Affiliate is completed. 
  1.2        Construction  .    The masculine gender, when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender (and vice versa), and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan clearly states to the contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the purpose of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the Plan.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any reason invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of  
    5 

the State of Illinois without regard to conflict of law principles and shall be administered according to the laws of such state, except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other Federal law. 
  ARTICLE II 
  ELIGIBILITY; ADOPTION BY AFFILIATES 
    
  2.1        Eligibility and Participation  .    An employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the first day of the month next following the date that he (a) is in salary grade 28 or higher pursuant to the Company s standard salary grades; and (b) is eligible to make elective deferrals to either the 401(k) Retirement Plan or the 401(k) Savings Plan, provided, that, (i) for an employee first promoted to salary grade 28 or higher, clause (a) shall be satisfied after the employee s supervisor has completed all administrative requirements to effect such promotion; and (ii) clause (b) shall not apply if he had already made elective deferrals equal to or in excess of the applicable dollar amount for purposes of Section 402(g) of the Code and (if applicable) catch-up contributions equal to or in excess of the applicable dollar amount for purposes of Sections 402(g) and 414(v)(2)(B) of the Code or he had already received compensation in excess of the applicable dollar limitation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, for such calendar year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an employee is employed in a division of the Company or by an Affiliate that does not use the Company s standard salary grades, such employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan if he (1) is in a salary grade that is considered in all respects to be the equivalent of a salary grade 28 or higher pursuant to the Company s standard salary grades; and (2) is eligible to make elective deferrals to either the 401(k) Retirement Plan or the 401(k) Savings Plan, provided, that, clauses (1) and (2) shall be subject to the rules described in clauses (a) and (b) of this Section 2.1. The Plan Administrator shall determine in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner whether a salary grade is equivalent for this purpose. 
  2.2        Discontinuance of Participation  .    The Plan Administrator shall discontinue an individual s active participation in the Plan if the individual is no longer in a salary grade of 28 or higher (or the equivalent, as described above), or no longer is eligible to make elective deferrals to either the 401(k) Retirement Plan or the 401(k) Savings Plan (other than by reason of the individual s elective deferrals during a calendar year reaching the applicable dollar limitation under Section 402(g)(1) of the Code or the individual s receiving compensation for the calendar year in excess of the applicable dollar limitation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code).  If an individual s active participation is discontinued, the individual s Deferral Agreements shall be cancelled and the individual will not be entitled to make Deferrals or to receive Matching Credits or Non-Elective Contribution Credits under the Plan. The individual will not be entitled to receive a distribution, however, until the occurrence of another event   (e.g.,   death or Separation from Service) that entitles the Participant to receive a distribution.  The Participant s accounts will continue to be adjusted to reflect investment earnings or losses in accordance with Section 5.1 until the accounts are distributed. 
  2.3        Resumption of Participation  .    With respect to an individual whose participation in the Plan was discontinued and who subsequently meets the eligibility requirements to resume active participation in the Plan, such employee shall (1) be permitted to complete a new Deferral Agreement during the annual election period described in Section 3.1(a) in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator, subject to the applicable restrictions in Sections  
    6 

3.1 and 3.2, and (2) be entitled to receive Non-Elective Contribution Credits subject to Section 3.5 with respect to NEC Eligible Pay for services to be performed beginning as of the first day of the month next following the date that the individual meets the eligibility requirements to resume active participation in the Plan. 
  2.4        Adoption by Affiliates  .    An employee of an Affiliate may not become a Participant in the Plan unless the Affiliate has previously adopted the Plan.  An Affiliate of the Company may adopt the Plan only with the approval of the Company.  By adopting the Plan, the Affiliate shall be deemed to have agreed to assume the obligations and liabilities imposed upon it by the Plan, agreed to comply with all of the other terms and provisions of the Plan, delegated to the Plan Administrator (and the BFC as applicable) the power and responsibility to administer the Plan with respect to the Affiliate s employees, and delegated to the Company the full power to amend or terminate the Plan with respect to the Affiliate s employees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Affiliate that has previously adopted the Plan may terminate its participation in the Plan in accordance with such rules and procedures that are promulgated by the Company. 
  ARTICLE III  
  DEFERRALS, MATCHING AND NON-ELECTIVE CONTRIBUTION CREDITS 
    
  3.1        Deferral Agreement  . 
  (a)        General  .    In order to make Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals, a Participant must complete a Deferral Agreement in the form and during the election period prescribed by the Plan Administrator.  In the Deferral Agreement, the Participant shall agree to reduce his compensation in exchange for Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals.  The Deferral Agreement shall be delivered to the Plan Administrator by the time specified in Section 3.2.  At the end of the election period prescribed by the Plan Administrator, an election made by a Participant pursuant to a Deferral Agreement shall be irrevocable with respect to the Plan Year covered by the election. 
  (b)        Initial Deferral Agreement  .   
  (1)        Deferrals Prior to March 26, 2007  .    Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2) below, a Participant shall not be permitted to make Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals pursuant to this Plan prior to March 26, 2007.  
  (2)        SEIP and DEIP  .    The deferral elections made pursuant to SEIP and DEIP relating to amounts to be deferred in 2007 on and after March 26, 2007 shall apply to the Plan as provided in Section 7.4.  
  (c)        Revocation  .    The Plan Administrator shall terminate a Participant s election to make Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals if the Participant has made a withdrawal due to Unforeseeable Emergency as provided in Section 6.10, but only to the extent that terminating the election would help the Participant to meet the related emergency need; provided that, any such Participant shall be permitted to complete a new Deferral Agreement during the annual election period described in Section 3.l(a), subject to the applicable restrictions in this Section 3.1 and Section  
    7 

3.2. Similarly, a Participant shall terminate an election to make Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals if such termination is required for the Participant to obtain a hardship distribution from the 401(k) Plan and permitted under Section 409A of the Code; provided that, (1) notwithstanding the foregoing, such termination shall apply only to the Participant s Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals that would have been made during the six-month period following receipt of the hardship distribution, and (2) following such termination, unless the Participant makes a different deferral election during the annual election period described in Section 3.l(a), the Plan Administrator shall automatically reinstate the Participant s deferral election to make Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals in effect immediately prior to receipt of the hardship distribution as soon as administratively practicable after the end of such six-month period. 
  3.2        Timing of Deferral Elections and Automatic Participation.     
  (a)        Deferral of Base Pay  .    Except as provided in Section 3.2(c), Deferral Agreements that relate to the deferral of Base Pay (including Supplemental Deferrals pursuant to Section 3.3(a) and Excess Deferrals pursuant to Section 3.3(b)) shall be completed by the Participant and delivered to the Plan Administrator prior to the beginning of the Plan Year in which the Base Pay to be deferred is otherwise payable to the Participant.  The Deferral Agreement will remain in effect from year-to-year until changed by the Participant in accordance with the preceding sentence.  The Plan Administrator, in his discretion, may require an earlier time by which the election to defer Base Pay must be completed.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, a Deferral Agreement shall also apply to Base Pay paid to a Participant after the Participant s Separation from Service but within a time period identified by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion and in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner, which time period shall not exceed two and one-half months from the date of the Participant s Separation from Service.  
  (b)        Deferral of Incentive Compensation  .    Deferral Agreements that relate to the deferral of Incentive Compensation shall be completed by the Participant and delivered to the Plan Administrator prior to the date that is six months before the end of the performance period to which the Incentive Compensation relates.  The Deferral Agreement will remain in effect with respect to all future Incentive Compensation until changed by the Participant in accordance with the preceding sentence.  The Plan Administrator, in his discretion, may require an earlier time by which the election to defer Incentive Compensation must be completed.  In addition, the Plan Administrator, in his discretion, may require that Participants make separate elections for one or more different types of Incentive Compensation (  e.g.,   STIP Pay, LTCPP Pay and Lump-Sum Awards).  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, a Deferral Agreement shall also apply to Incentive Compensation paid to a Participant after the Participant s Separation from Service     but within a time period identified by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion and in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner, which time period shall not exceed two and one-half months from the date of the Participant s Separation from Service.   
  (c)        Initial Deferral Election  .   
  (1)        General  .  For the Plan Year in which an eligible employee first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan (but only if the eligible employee has never been eligible to participate in another  account balance plan,  other than a separation pay plan, of the Company  
    8 

or an Affiliate that is aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A of the Code), the Participant may elect to make Supplemental Deferrals and Excess Deferrals by completing and delivering a Deferral Agreement within 28 days commencing with the date the Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.1. Any such Deferral Agreement shall take effect     with respect to compensation for services to be performed beginning as of the first day of the month immediately following the date of any such election.   
  (2)        Automatic Participation and Default Elections for Certain Eligible Employees  .  Any eligible employee described in paragraph (1) of this Section 3.2(c) who does not complete and deliver a Deferral Agreement within 28 days commencing with the date that the employee first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.1 will become a Participant as of the first day of the next month.  Any such Participant will be eligible for Non-Elective Contribution Credits under Section 3.5 but will not make Deferrals under Section 3.3 or receive Matching Credits under Section 3.4 until such Participant makes an election in accordance with Section 3.2(a) or 3.2(b), as applicable.  The investment elections and distribution elections of any such Participant shall be determined pursuant to the applicable provisions of Sections 5.2 and Article VI, respectively.  The provisions of this Section shall also apply to an employee who becomes eligible to participate in the Plan from September 26, 2010 through December 31, 2010 who fails to complete and deliver a Deferral Agreement within 30 days commencing with the date the employee first becomes eligible under the terms of the Plan in effect immediately prior to January 1, 2011. 
  (3)        Re-Employment  .  The provisions of this paragraph (c) permitting an eligible employee to elect to make Supplemental Deferrals and Excess Deferrals shall not apply to a Participant who: (i) incurs a Separation from Service; (ii) is subsequently re-employed by the Company or an Affiliate; and (iii) at any time during such period of re-employment meets the eligibility requirements for active participation in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.1.  However, an eligible employee described in this paragraph (c) will be permitted to, within the applicable period described in this paragraph (c), make a distribution election in accordance with Article VI. 
  (d)        Deferral Elections Upon Re-Employment  .  A Participant who: (1) incurs a Separation from Service; (2) is subsequently re-employed by the Company or an Affiliate; and (3) at any time during such period of re-employment meets the eligibility requirements for active participation in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.1 shall be only permitted to make a deferral election of Base Pay (including Supplemental Deferrals pursuant to Section 3.3(a) and Excess Deferrals pursuant to Section 3.3(b)) or a deferral election of Incentive Compensation during such period of re-employment by completing a Deferral Agreement in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator, subject to the applicable restrictions in Section 3.1 and this Section 3.2. 
  3.3        Deferrals  . 
  (a)        Supplemental Deferrals  .    Any Participant may elect to supplement the deferrals made pursuant to the 401(k) Plan by deferring, pursuant to a Deferral Agreement, the receipt of up to 70% (designated in whole percentages) of the Base Pay and/or up to 70% (designated in whole percentages) of the Incentive Compensation, otherwise payable to the Participant by the  
    9 

Company or an Adopting Affiliate in any Plan Year.  The amount deferred pursuant to this paragraph (a) shall be allocated to the Supplemental Deferral Account maintained for the Participant.  
  (b)        Excess Deferrals  .    Any Participant may elect to defer, pursuant to a Deferral Agreement, the receipt of 6% of the Eligible Pay otherwise payable to him by the Company or an Adopting Affiliate in any Plan Year.  A Participant s election to receive Excess Deferrals shall only apply to the Eligible Pay not recognized in 401(k) Plan Compensation during the Plan Year.  The amount deferred pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall be allocated to the Excess Deferral Account maintained for the Participant. 
  3.4        Matching Credits  .    As soon as administratively practicable following the last day of each Plan Year (or more frequently in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator), the Plan Administrator shall allocate matching credits to the Participant s accounts for that Plan Year as follows: 
  (a)        Supplemental Matching Credit  .    The Supplemental Matching Credit shall be in an amount equal to: (1) 6% times the Maximum Matching Contribution Percentage of Base Pay deferred by the Participant as Supplemental Deferrals and (2) the Maximum Matching Contribution Percentage of the STIP Pay and Lump- Sum Awards deferred by the Participant as Supplemental Deferrals (up to the a maximum deferral of 6% of the Participant s STIP Pay and Lump-Sum Awards for the Plan Year).  LTCPP Pay deferred by the Participant as Supplemental Deferrals shall not be considered when determining Supplemental Matching Credits.  The amount credited pursuant to this paragraph (a) shall be allocated to the Supplemental Matching Credit Account maintained for the Participant. 
  (b)        Excess Matching Credit  .    The Excess Matching Credit shall be in an amount equal to the Maximum Matching Contribution Percentage of the Participant s Excess Deferrals.  The amount credited pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall be allocated to the Excess Matching Credit Account maintained for the Participant. 
  3.5        Non-Elective Contribution Credits  .   
  (a)        Amount and Eligibility Requirements for Non-Elective Contribution Credits  .   Effective January 1, 2011, if the Participant is eligible to receive the Company non-elective contributions under the 401(k) Plan (i.e., the 3%/4%/5% non-elective contributions under the 401(k) Plan), then as soon as administratively practicable following the last day of each Plan Year (or more frequently in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator), the Plan Administrator shall allocate non-elective contribution credits to the Participant s accounts for that Plan Year based on the Participant s Points in an amount equal to the product of the applicable percentage specified below multiplied by the Participant s NEC Eligible Pay: 
    10 

A Participant shall only receive a Non-Elective Contribution Credit for a Plan Year if: (a) such Participant is employed by the Company or an Affiliate on the last day of the plan year for which the Company non-elective contributions are made under the 401(k) Plan and (2) such Participant is credited with a  Year of Benefit Service  (as such term is defined under the 401(k) Plan) during the Plan Year. 
  (b)        Non-Elective Contribution Credits Upon Re-Employment  .  A Participant who: (1) incurs a Separation from Service; (2) is subsequently re-employed by the Company or an Affiliate; and (3) at any time during such period of re-employment meets the eligibility requirements for active participation in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.1 shall be entitled to receive Non-Elective Contribution Credits with respect to NEC Eligible Pay for services to be performed beginning as of the first day of the month next following the date that the individual meets the eligibility requirements to resume active participation in the Plan.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan, each GSCS Participant who is entitled to receive Company non-elective contributions under the 401(k) Plan for the Plan Year in which the GSCS Closing Date occurs shall receive a Non-Elective Contribution Credit based on (a) the NEC Eligible Pay earned by such GSCS Participant prior to the GSCS Closing Date during the Plan Year in which the GSCS Closing Date occurs, and (b) such GSCS Participant s Points determined as of the GSCS Closing Date. 
  3.6        Certain Deferrals and Matching Credits  .    Supplemental Deferrals, Excess Deferrals, Supplemental Matching Credits and Excess Matching Credits allocated to Participants for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 Plan Years prior to the Spin-Off described in Article VII shall have been made initially to SEIP and DEIP but shall be transferred to this Plan and become subject hereto by virtue of such Spin-Off.  For periods beginning on and after such Spin-Off, Supplemental Deferrals, Excess Deferrals, Supplemental Matching Credits and Excess Matching Credits shall be made pursuant to the terms of this Article III. 
  3.7        Allocation Among Affiliates  .    Each Adopting Affiliate may be required to bear the costs and expenses of providing benefits accrued by Participants that are currently or were previously employees of such Adopting Affiliate.  Such costs and expenses will be allocated among the Adopting Affiliates in accordance with (a) agreements entered into between the Company and any Adopting Affiliate, or (b) in the absence of such an agreement, reasonable procedures adopted by the Company. 
  3.8        Deferrals Attributable to Qualified Military Service  .    An employee who was, or was eligible to become, a Participant immediately before commencing Qualified Military Service  
    11 

and who is re-employed following such Qualified Military Service shall, upon his returning from Qualified Military Service, have the right to elect additional Supplemental Deferrals and/or Excess Deferrals ( Additional Deferrals ) in accordance with Section 3.1, over a period of time equal to the lesser of (a) three times the length of his Qualified Military Service, or (b) five years. Such Participant shall also be entitled to receive Supplemental Matching Credits and/or Excess Matching Credits ( Additional Credits ) attributable to such Additional Deferrals, in accordance with Section 3.4, in the amount he would have received had such Additional Deferrals been made during his period of Qualified Military Service.  All such Additional Deferrals and Additional Credits shall be deemed to have been received during the period of Qualified Military Service for purposes of applying all limitations under this Plan, but shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the Plan, including but not limited to the provisions of Section 3.1, Section 3.2, Section 3.3, and Section 3.4.  For purposes of this Section 3.8, a Participant shall be deemed to have received Base Pay and Incentive Compensation during his period of Qualified Military Service based on the rate of Base Pay and Incentive Compensation he would have received had he been an employee during such period or, if such rate cannot be determined with reasonable accuracy, based on his average Base Pay and Incentive Compensation received during the 12-month period (or his entire period of employment, if shorter) immediately prior to the period of military service. The provisions of this Section 3.8 shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with Section 414(u) of the Code. 
  3.9        Additional Deferral Election Period in 2010  .    In anticipation of the changes to the Plan effective January 1, 2011, an additional deferral election period, as permitted by Sections 3.1 and 3.2 and as described in this Section 3.9, shall be held. 
  (a)        Election Period  .  The election period described in this Section 3.9 shall begin on October 26, 2010 and end on November 30, 2010, unless extended to a later date by the Plan Administrator in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner.  In no event, however, shall such special election period extend beyond December 31, 2010. 
  (b)        Application of Election Period  .    The deferral election period described in this Section 3.9 applies to: (1) all Participants and (2) those eligible employees as of September 25, 2010 who are not yet Participants and, who as a result, have never (i) made Supplemental Deferrals or Excess Deferrals under the Plan and, thus, have never submitted Distribution Election Forms hereunder or (ii) otherwise participated in another  account balance plan  other than a separation pay plan, of the Company or an Affiliate that is aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A of the Code. 
  (c)        Default Provisions  .  If an individual identified in clause (2) of paragraph (b) above fails to make a deferral election during the special election period, the applicable provisions of Section 3.2(c)(2) shall apply.   
      ARTICLE VI 
  VESTING 
    
  4.1        Vesting of Non-Elective Contribution Account  .    Subject to Section 10.1, amounts credited to or allocable to a Participant s Non-Elective Contribution Account shall become fully  
    12 

vested and the rights and interests therein shall not be forfeitable to the same extent that the Participant is vested in his or her Company non-elective contributions, if any, under the 401(k) Plan.  To the extent any amounts are forfeited pursuant to this Section 4.1, such amounts shall be subject to restoration to the Participant s Non-Elective Contribution Account in a similar manner to which Company non-elective contributions forfeited under the 401(k) Plan are subject to restoration.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.1, amounts credited to or allocable to a GSCS Participant s Non-Elective Contribution Account shall be fully vested at all times from and after the GSCS Closing Date and, from and after the GSCS Closing Date, the GSCS Participant s rights and interests therein shall not be forfeitable.  
  4.2        Vesting of All Other Accounts  .  Subject to Section 10.1, amounts credited to or allocable to a Participant s Supplemental Deferral Account, Excess Deferral Account, Supplemental Matching Credit Account, and Excess Matching Credit Account shall be fully vested at all times and the rights and interests therein shall not be forfeitable 
  ARTICLE V 
  INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS 
    
  5.1        Adjustment of Accounts  .    Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in the Plan, as of each Valuation Date, each Participant s accounts will be adjusted to reflect credits under Article III and the positive or negative rate of return on the Investment Funds selected by the Participant pursuant to Section 5.2(b).  The rate of return will be determined by the Plan Administrator pursuant to Section 5.2(f) and will be credited or charged in accordance with policies applied uniformly to all Participants. 
  5.2        Investment Direction  .   
  (a)        Investment Funds  .    Each Participant may direct the notional investment of amounts credited to his Plan accounts in one or more of the Investment Funds.  The Investment Funds shall, at all times, be notional funds that track the returns of the investment funds selected by the BFC for purposes of the 401(k) Retirement Plan and made available to 401(k) Retirement Plan participants.  In addition, the Investment Funds shall, at all times, include a Company Stock Fund as described in Section 5.3.  Neither the Company, each Adopting Affiliate, the Plan Administrator, the BFC, nor any other party shall have any responsibility, duty of care (whether express or implied) or liability to any Participant in regards to designation of the Investment Funds as set forth in Section 5.2(a). 
  (b)        Participant Directions  . 
  (1)        General  .    Each Participant may direct that all of the amounts attributable to his accounts be invested in a single Investment Fund or may direct that whole percentage increments of his accounts be invested in such fund or funds as he shall desire in accordance with such procedures as may be established by the Plan Administrator.  Unless the Plan Administrator prescribes otherwise, such procedures generally shall mirror the procedures established under the 401(k) Retirement Plan for participant investment direction. 
    13 

(2)        Spin-Off from SEIP and DEIP  .    Each Participant who became a Participant in the Plan as a result of the Spin-Off described in Article VII or by reason of Section 3.1(b)(2) shall be conclusively deemed to have directed the Plan Administrator to invest all of the amounts attributable to his accounts in the same manner as the Participant s accounts were invested in SEIP and/or DEIP as of the effective date of the Spin-Off and, in the absence of an affirmative direction by the Spin-Off Participant regarding future deferrals pursuant to paragraph (b)(l) above, such Participant shall be conclusively deemed to have directed the Plan Administrator to invest such deferrals in the same manner as the Participant s deferrals were directed to be invested in SEIP and/or DEIP as of the effective date of the Spin-Off. If a Participant participated in both SEIP and DEIP as of the effective date of the Spin-Off and his investment elections for future deferrals were different among plans, the Participant shall be conclusively deemed to have directed the Plan Administrator to invest future deferrals in the same manner as the Participant s deferral elections pursuant to DEIP.  The Participant may change his directions at any time in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. 
  (c)        Changes and Intra-Fund Transfers  .    Participant investment directions may be changed, and amounts may be transferred from one Investment Fund to another, in accordance with the procedures established by the Plan Administrator.  The designation will remain in effect until changed by the timely submission of a new designation by the Participant. 
  (d)        Default Selection  .    In the absence of a designation by the Participant, such Participant will be deemed to have directed the notional investment of his accounts in the Investment Fund that tracks the return of the 401(k) Retirement Plan investment fund that is designated by the BFC as the  default  investment fund for purposes of the 401(k) Retirement Plan. 
  (e)        Impact of Election  .    The Participant s selection of Investment Funds shall serve only as a measurement of the value of the Participant s Accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 and this Section 5.2.  None of the Company, the BFC, or the Plan Administrator are required to actually invest a Participant s accounts in accordance with the Participant s selections. 
  (f)        Investment Performance  .    Accounts shall be adjusted on each Valuation Date to reflect investment gains and losses as if the accounts were invested in the Investment Funds selected by the Participants in accordance with this Section 5.2 and charged with any and all reasonable expenses as provided in paragraph (g) below.  The earnings and losses determined by the Plan Administrator in good faith and in his discretion pursuant to this Section shall be binding and conclusive on the Participant, the Participant s beneficiary and all parties claiming through them. 
  (g)        Charges  .    The Plan Administrator may (but is not required to) charge Participants  accounts for the reasonable expenses of administration including, but not limited to, carrying out and/or accounting for investment instructions directly related to such accounts. 
  (h)        Investment of Matching Credits  .  Supplemental Matching Credits and Excess Matching Credits allocated to a Participant s Supplemental Matching Credit Account and/or Excess Matching Credit Account during the period beginning on June 1, 2009 and ending on October 14, 2010 were notionally invested in the Company Stock Fund.  A Participant may diversify  
    14 

the Supplemental Matching Credits and/or Excess Matching Credits that were notionally invested in the Company Stock Fund as described in this Section 5.2(h) by directing the notional investment of the value of such matching credits to any other Investment Fund as permitted by Section 5.2(b)(1).  If a Participant fails to diversify the value of the Supplemental Matching Credits and/or Excess Matching Credits notionally invested in the Company Stock Fund as described in this Section 5.2(h), he shall be deemed to have directed the notional investment of such matching credits in the Company Stock Fund.  
  5.3        Special Company Stock Fund Provisions  .   
  (a)        General  .    A Participant s interest in the Company Stock Fund shall be expressed in whole and fractional notional units of the Company Stock Fund.  The Company Stock Fund shall track an investment in Company Stock in the same manner as the 401(k) Retirement Plan s company stock fund.  Accordingly, the value of the unit in the Plan s Company Stock Fund shall be the same as the value of a unit in the 401(k) plan s company stock fund.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and to the extent that a company stock fund is no longer maintained under the 401(k) Retirement Plan, the Plan Administrator shall establish such rules and procedures as are necessary to maintain the Company Stock Fund hereunder. 
  (b)        Investment Directions  .    A Participant s ability to direct investments into or out of the Company Stock Fund shall be subject to such procedures as the Plan Administrator may prescribe from time to time to assure compliance with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and other applicable requirements.  Such procedures also may limit or restrict a Participant s ability to make (or modify previously made) deferral and distribution elections pursuant to Articles III and VI, respectively.  In furtherance, and not in limitation, of the foregoing, to the extent a Participant acquires any interest in an equity security under the Plan for purposes of Section 16(b), the Participant shall not dispose of that interest within six months, unless specifically exempted by Section 16(b) or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (c)        Compliance with Securities Laws  .    Any election by a Participant to hypothetically invest any amount in the Company Stock Fund, and any elections to transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be subject to all applicable securities law requirements, including but not limited to the last sentence of paragraph (b) above and Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission.  To the extent that any election violates any securities law requirement or the Company s stock trading policies and procedures, the election shall be void. 
  (d)        Compliance with Company Trading Policies and Procedures  .    Any election by a Participant to hypothetically invest any amount in the Company Stock Fund, and any elections to transfer amounts from or to the Company Stock Fund to or from any other Investment Fund, shall be subject to all Company Stock trading policies promulgated by the Company.  To the extent that any election violates any such trading policy or procedures, the election shall be void. 
  5.4        Application to Beneficiaries  .    Following the death of a Participant, the term  Participant  in this Article V shall refer to the Participant s beneficiary described in Section 6.9. 
    15 

ARTICLE VI 
  DISTRIBUTIONS 
    
  6.1        Limitation on Right to Receive Distribution  .    A Participant shall not be entitled to receive a distribution prior to the first to occur of the following events: 
  (a)        The Participant s Separation from Service, or in the case of a Participant who is a Specified Employee, the date which is six months after the Participant s Separation from Service; 
  (b)        The date the Participant becomes Disabled; 
  (c)        The Participant s death; 
  (d)        A specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) specified at the date of deferral of compensation; 
  (e)        An Unforeseeable Emergency; or  
  (f)        To the extent provided by the Secretary of the Treasury, a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
  This Section 6.1 restates the restrictions on distributions set forth in Section 409A of the Code and is intended to impose restrictions on distributions pursuant to the Plan accordingly.  This Section 6.1 does not describe the instances in which distributions actually will be made.  Rather, distributions will be made only if and when permitted both by this Section 6.1 and another provision of the Plan. 
  6.2        General Right to Receive Distribution  .    Following a Participant s termination of employment or death, the Participant s Plan accounts will be distributed to the Participant in the manner and at the time provided in Sections 6.4 and 6.5 or Section 6.9, as applicable. A transfer of a Participant from the Company or any Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of this Section 6.2.  
  6.3        Amount of Distribution  .    The amount distributed to a Participant shall be based on the vested amounts credited to the Participant s accounts as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the date of the distribution.  Amounts shall be valued at the fair market value on the relevant Valuation Date determined pursuant to uniform and non-discriminatory rules established by the Plan Administrator. 
  6.4        Form of Distribution  .    Accounts shall be distributed in cash in a single lump-sum payment or in quarterly, semi-annual or annual installments. Distributions shall be subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time, consistent with Section 409A of the Code.  The form of payment shall be selected by the Participant in the initial Distribution Election Form (which may be contained in and be a part of a Deferral Agreement) submitted by the Participant to the Plan Administrator on entry into the Plan.  A Participant may change his election by filing a new Distribution Election Form with the Plan  
    16 

Administrator in accordance with Section 6.6.  If a revised Distribution Election Form is not honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made in the form specified in the most recent valid Distribution Election Form filed by the Participant.  If no valid Distribution Election Form exists, the Participant s accounts will be distributed in a single lump-sum. 
  6.5        Timing of Distribution  .    Except as provided in the next sentence, funds will be distributed within an administratively reasonable period of time following the six-month anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may elect to further defer the distribution of his accounts by filing a Distribution Election with the Plan Administrator in accordance with Section 6.6.  If a revised Distribution Election Form is not honored because it was not timely filed, distributions shall be made pursuant to the most recent valid Distribution Election Form filed by the Participant.  If no valid Distribution Election Form exists, the Participant s accounts will be distributed in accordance with the first sentence of this Section 6.5.  If a Participant s Separation from Service is caused by his death, or a Participant dies after Separation from Service, then funds will be distributed as described in Section 6.9.   
  6.6        Changes in Time and Form of Distribution  .    A new Distribution Election Form that delays the time of a payment elected by a Participant or the form of payment selected by a Participant may be filed with the Plan Administrator at any time, will be subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time, and only will be honored in accordance with the following: 
  (a)        The new form will not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the new form is filed with the Plan Administrator; and  
  (b)        The election may not be made less than 12 months prior to the date the payment is scheduled to be made, is commenced or otherwise would be made; and  
  (c)        The first payment with respect to which the election is made must be deferred for a period of not less than five years from the date such payment would otherwise be made. 
  The provisions of this Section 6.6 are intended to comply with Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the requirements of such section and any regulations, rulings or other guidance issued pursuant thereto. 
  6.7        Special Election Period for 2007  .    Pursuant to the transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury in Section 3.02 of IRS Notice 2006 79, Participants may make distribution elections in regards to their Plan accounts in accordance with this Section 6.7.  
  (a)        Election Period  .    The election period described in this Section 6.7 shall begin on April 1, 2007 and end on May 7, 2007 unless extended to a later date by the Plan Administrator in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner, in his sole discretion.  In no event, however, shall such special election period extend beyond December 31, 2007. 
    17 

(b)        Application of Election Period  .    The special election period described in this Section 6.7 shall apply to Participants as provided in this paragraph (b). 
  (1)        Participants to Whom Election Period Applies  .    The special election period shall only apply to the following Participants: 
  (i)        Active Participants  .    Individuals who are Participants in the Plan by reason of the Spin-Off described in Article VII or by reason of Section 3.1(b)(2) and who, as of the first day of the special election period, have not incurred a Separation of Service, have not died and are not Disabled; 
  (ii)        Separated Participants  .    Individuals who are Participants in the Plan by reason of the Spin-Off described in Article VII and who, as of the first day of the special election period, have incurred a Separation from Service and distributions pursuant to the Plan have not yet commenced; and 
  (iii)        Beneficiaries  .    Beneficiaries described in Section 6.9 of Participants who, as of the first day of the special election period had deceased if, as of such date, distributions pursuant to the Plan have not yet commenced with respect to the Participant. 
  (2)        Participants to Whom Election Period Does Not Apply  .    The special election period shall not apply to the following Participants: 
  (i)        Participants in Pay Status  .    Individuals who are Participants in the Plan by reason of the Spin-Off described in Article VII and who, as of the first day of the special election period, are receiving distributions pursuant to the Plan; 
  (ii)        Other Participants  .    Any other Participants not described in paragraphs (b)(l) and (b)(2)(i) of this Section 6.7; and 
  (iii)        Beneficiaries  .    Any beneficiary not described in paragraph (b)(l)(iii) of this Section 6.7. 
  (c)        Default Provisions  .    If a Participant to whom the special election period applies fails to make a distribution election during the special election period the following rules shall apply: 
  (1)        Active Participants  .    If a Participant identified in paragraph (b)(l)(i) above fails to make an election during the special election period, the default provisions of Section 6.4 and Section 6.5 shall apply (subject to the Participant s ability to change his distribution elections pursuant to Section 6.6). 
  (2)        Separated Participants and Beneficiaries  .    If a Participant identified in paragraph (b)(l)(ii) above or a beneficiary described in paragraph (b)(l)(iii) above fails to affirmatively make an election during the special election period, such individual shall be deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Plan that is identical to the distribution elections made  
    18 

pursuant to SEIP and/or DEIP in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code (subject to the individual s ability to change his distribution elections pursuant to Section 6.6). 
  (d)        April 1, 2007 Commencements  .    Notwithstanding anything in this Section 6.7 to the contrary, the special election period shall not apply to a Participant or beneficiary described in Section 6.9 who had previously made an election (and, therefore, for whom a default election is not in effect) pursuant to SEIP and/or DEIP whereby a lump-sum distribution or installment payments are scheduled to commence as of April 1, 2007.  In the case of these Participants and beneficiaries, such lump sum distribution or installment payments shall commence as of April 1, 2007 as previously elected (i.e., in accordance with the distribution elections made pursuant to SEIP and/or DEIP in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code). 
  6.8        Default Provisions for Certain Participants Relating to 2010 Election Period  .    If an individual identified in clause (2) of Section 3.9(b) fails to complete an initial Distribution Election Form during the election period described Section 3.9, the default provisions of Section 6.4 and Section 6.5 shall apply to such individual s Plan accounts (subject to the ability to change distribution elections pursuant to Section 6.6). 
  6.9        Payment Upon Death  .   
  (a)        Beneficiary Designation  .    If a Participant should die before receiving a full distribution of his Plan accounts, distribution shall be made to the beneficiary designated by the Participant, in accordance with such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time.  If a Participant has not designated a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, then the Participant s beneficiary shall be that person or persons entitled to receive distributions of the Participant s accounts under the 401(k) Plan. 
  (b)        Timing and Form of Payment to Beneficiary  .   
  (1)        Payments Commenced at Time of Death  .    If, at the time of the Participant s death, installment payments of the Participant s accounts have commenced pursuant to this Article VI, such payments shall continue to the Participant s beneficiary in the same time and the same form as if the Participant has remained alive until the last installment payment was scheduled to be made.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a beneficiary may take a withdrawal upon an Unforeseeable Emergency pursuant to Section 6.10, applying the provisions of such Section by substituting the term  beneficiary  for  Participant.  
  (2)        Payments Not Commenced at Time of Death  .    If, at the time of the Participant s death, payments of the Participant s accounts has not commenced pursuant to this Article VI, the distributions made pursuant to this Section 6.9 shall be made to the Participant s beneficiary in accordance with the then current and valid distribution election made by the Participant (or, in the absence of such a distribution election, in accordance with the  default  provisions of Section 6.4).  If the distribution election applicable to the Participant provided for payment to commence within an administratively reasonable period of time following the six-month anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service, this six-month anniversary shall be disregarded in the even of the Participant s death, and payments shall commence within an  
    19 

administratively reasonable period of time following the Participant s death.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a beneficiary may take a withdrawal upon an Unforeseeable Emergency pursuant to Section 6.10 or change the timing and form of payment pursuant to Section 6.6 applying the provisions of such Sections by substituting the term  beneficiary  for  Participant  as the context requires, thereunder. 
  6.10        Payment Upon Unforeseeable Emergency  .   
  (a)        General  .    Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant incurs an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Participant may elect to make a withdrawal from the Participant s account (even after distribution of the Participants accounts has commenced pursuant to Section 6.2.  A withdrawal on account of Unforeseeable Emergency may be made if, as determined under regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, the amounts withdrawn with respect to an emergency do not exceed the amounts necessary to satisfy such emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the withdrawal, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved: (1) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise; (2) by liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship; or (3) by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. 
  (b)        Information Required  .    A Participant who wishes to receive a distribution pursuant to this Section 6.10 shall apply for such distribution to the Plan Administrator and shall provide information to the Plan Administrator reasonably necessary to permit the Plan Administrator to determine whether an Unforeseeable Emergency exists and the amount of the distribution reasonably needed to satisfy the emergency need. 
  6.11        Payment Upon Re-Employment  .    This Section 6.11 shall apply to an individual who incurs a Separation from Service (if, at the time of such Separation from Service, such individual is a Participant), who is subsequently re-employed by the Company or an Affiliate and with respect to whom all amounts allocated to such Participant s accounts have not been paid out at the time of re-employment.  Distributions of the amounts allocated to such Participant s accounts with respect to the Participant s participation before such re-employment shall be made in accordance with the distribution elections in effect immediately prior to such re-employment without regard to any subsequent Separation from Service, subject to the other provisions of this Article VI.  If, pursuant to Section 3.2(d) or Section 3.5(b), a Participant elects to make Deferrals or is eligible to receive Non-Elective Contribution Credits following such re-employment, such post re-employment Deferrals and Non-Elective Contribution Credits shall be subject to their own distribution elections made in accordance with Section 3.2(c)(3) and this Article VI. 
  6.12        Withholding  .    All distributions will be subject to all applicable tax and withholding requirements. 
  6.13        Ban on Acceleration of Benefits  .    Neither the time nor the schedule of any payment under the Plan may be accelerated except as permitted in regulations or other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of the Treasury and as incorporated herein. 
    20 

ARTICLE VII 
  SPIN-OFF FROM SEIP AND DEIP 
    
  7.1        General  .    In response to the enactment of Section 409A of the Code and pursuant to transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury, deferrals and matching credits under SEIP and DEIP have been frozen and all amounts deferred and vested in those plans prior to January 1, 2005 have been  grandfathered  and thus are not subject to the requirements of Section 409A.  The deferrals and matching credits made pursuant to SEIP and DEIP from January 1, 2005 through March 25, 2007, (and the earnings/losses thereon) were spun-off to the Plan as provided in this Article VII. 
  7.2        Amounts Spun-Off  .    All amounts credited to participant accounts in SEIP and DEIP on or after January 1, 2005 through March 25, 2007 and not fully distributed on or before April 1, 2007 were spun-off and allocated to Plan accounts, and were invested, as provided in Section 7.3.  The amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2005 were determined in accordance with Q A- 17 of IRS Notice 2005-1, proposed and final regulations, and any other applicable guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury. 
  7.3        Allocation and Investment of SEIP and DEIP Amounts  .    Amounts spun-off from SEIP and DEIP are allocated to accounts under the Plan in accordance with this Section 7.3. 
  (a)        SEIP  .    Amounts deferred by participants under SEIP are allocated to the Participant s Excess Deferral Account in the Plan.  Matching credits made by the Company under SEIP are allocated to the Participant s Excess Matching Credit Account in the Plan. 
  (b)        DEIP  .    Amounts deferred by participants under DEIP are allocated to the Participant s Supplemental Deferral Account in the Plan.  Matching credits made by the Company under DEIP are allocated to the Participant s Supplemental Matching Credit Account in the Plan. 
  (c)        Investments  .    The amounts spun-off to the Plan in accordance with Section 7.2 are invested in accordance with Section 5.2(b)(2). 
  7.4        Deferral Elections  .    Deferral elections made by participants in DEIP and SEIP for amounts deferred in 2007 on and after March 26, 2007 shall apply to the Plan as provided in this Section 7.4. 
  (a)        SEIP  .    Elections to defer Eligible Pay in 2007 under SEIP are considered Excess Deferral elections pursuant to the Plan, provided such elections otherwise comply with Section 409A of the Code and any transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury. 
  (b)        DEIP  .    Elections to defer Base Pay in 2007 and elections to defer Incentive Compensation paid in 2007 for any performance periods ending between July 1, 2006 and December 31, 2006 under DEIP are considered Supplemental Deferral elections pursuant to the Plan, provided  
    21 

such elections otherwise comply with Section 409A of the Code and any transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Treasury. 
  (c)        Investments  .    The amounts deferred in accordance with this Section 7.4 are invested in accordance with Section 5.2(b)(2). 
  7.5        Distribution Elections  .   
  (a)        Participants in Pay Status  .    The distribution elections made pursuant to SEIP and/or DEIP in good faith compliance with Section 409A by the Participants identified in Section 6.7(b)(2)(i) shall continue to apply. 
  (b)        Other Participants  .    All other individuals whom become Participants by virtue of the Spin-Off described in this Article VII shall make elections regarding the timing and form of distributions in accordance with Section 6.7. 
  7.6        Effective Date of Spin-Off  .    The Spin-Off described in this Article VII shall be effective as of 11:59:59 P.M. on March 25, 2007.   
      ARTICLE VIII 
  ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
    
  8.1        General Powers and Duties  .    The following list of powers and duties is not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan Administrator shall, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as he may deem advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless such powers or duties are expressly assigned to another pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 
  (a)        General  .    The Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and discretion given to him in the Plan document and by applicable law and his decisions and actions shall be final and conclusive as to all persons affected thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the Plan Administrator with all data and information that the Plan Administrator may reasonably require in order to perform his functions.  The Plan Administrator may rely without question upon any such data or information. 
  (b)        Disputes  .    Any and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be referred to the Plan Administrator and his decision shall be final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning, interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the Plan Administrator shall be final. 
  (c)        Agents  .    The Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist him and he may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 
    22 

(d)        Insurance  .    At the Director s request, the Company shall purchase liability insurance to cover the Director in his activities as the Plan Administrator. 
  (e)        Allocations  .    The Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such responsibility has been allocated. 
  (f)        Records  .    The Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records by its agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the Plan. 
  (g)        Interpretations  .    The Plan Administrator, in his sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 
  (h)        Electronic Administration  .    The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to, electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions or forms submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan calling for the submission of a written election, direction or form. 
  (i)        Accounts  .    The Plan Administrator shall combine the various accounts of a Participant if he deems such action appropriate.  Furthermore, the Plan Administrator shall divide a Participant s accounts into sub-accounts if he deems such action appropriate. 
  (j)        Delegation  .    The Plan Administrator may delegate his authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in his sole and absolute discretion. 
  8.2        Claims Procedures  .    Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in accordance with Code Section 409A and uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA. 
  ARTICLE IX 
  AMENDMENT 
    
  9.1        Amendment  .    The Company reserves the right at any time to amend, modify or suspend any or all of the provisions of this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time as designated by a written instrument duly adopted on behalf of the Company. 
  9.2        Effect of Amendment  .    Any amendment of the Plan shall not directly or indirectly reduce the balance of any Plan account as of the effective date of such amendment. 
    23 

9.3        Termination  .    The Company expressly reserves the right to terminate the Plan.   
  (a)        General  .    In the event of termination, the Company shall specify whether termination will change the time at which distributions are made; provided that any acceleration of a distribution is consistent with Section 409A of the Code.  In the absence of such specification, the timing of distributions shall be unaffected by termination. 
  (b)      GSCS Termination  .    Pursuant to the Company s authority to terminate the Plan, the Plan is irrevocably terminated with respect to all GSCS Participants upon the GSCS Closing Date and no GSCS Participant shall accrue any benefits under the Plan for any purpose after the GSCS Closing Date.  Pursuant to termination of the Plan with respect to GSCS Participants pursuant to this Section 9.3, the balance in each GSCS Participant s account under the Plan shall be distributed to the GSCS Participant in a single lump-sum payment as soon as practicable after the GSCS Closing Date, but in no event later than December 31 next following the GSCS Closing Date.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the balance in each GSCS Participant s account shall be determined as of the Valuation Date occurring coincident with or next preceding the date of distribution.  Termination of the Plan with respect to GSCS Participants will change the time at which distributions are made to GSCS Participants.  Payments to GSCS Participants pursuant to this Section 9.3(b) are intended to comply with section 409A of the Code and applicable guidance issued thereunder. 
  ARTICLE X      GENERAL PROVISIONS 
  10.1        Participant s Rights Unsecured  .    The Plan at all times shall be entirely unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company for payment of any distributions hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her designated beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor a designated beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company.  All amounts credited to a Participant s accounts hereunder shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of the Company s insolvency. 
  10.2        No Guaranty of Benefits  .    Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or entity that the assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder. 
  10.3        No Enlargement of Employee Rights  .    No Participant shall have any right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
    24 

10.4        Section 409A Compliance  .    The Company intends that the Plan meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder.  The Plan shall be administered, construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with that intention. 
  10.5        Spendthrift Provision  .    No interest of any person or entity in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such interest or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims in bankruptcy proceedings.  This Section shall not preclude arrangements for the withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or benefit payments, arrangements for the recovery of benefit overpayments, arrangements for the transfer of benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements for direct deposit of benefit payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan association or credit union (provided that such arrangement is not part of an arrangement constituting an assignment or alienation). 
  10.6        Domestic Relations Orders  .    Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, a Participant s accounts may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time.  Any amount subject to a Domestic Relations Order shall be distributed as soon as practicable. 
  10.7        Incapacity of Recipient  .    If the Plan Administrator is served with a court order holding that a person entitled to a distribution under the Plan is incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone payment until such time as a claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person.  The Plan Administrator is under no obligation to inquire or investigate as to the competency of any person entitled to a distribution.  Any payment to an appointed guardian or other legal representative under this Section shall be a payment for the account of the incapacitated person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefor. 
  10.8        Successors  .    The Plan shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon the heirs, beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who become Participants hereunder. 
  10.9        Limitations on Liability  .    Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the Director, or the Company, nor any individual acting as the Plan Administrator s, the Director s, or the Company s employee, agent, or representative shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan. 
  10.10        Conflicts  .    If any person holds a position under the Plan through which he or she is charged with making a decision about the administration of his or her own (or any immediate family member s) Plan participation, including, without limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan investments, then such person shall be recused and the decision shall be made by the Plan Administrator.  If a decision is required regarding  
    25 

the administration of the Plan Administrator s Plan participation, including without limitation, decisions regarding eligibility, or account valuation, or the administration of his or her Plan investments, such decision shall be made by the Company s Vice President, Human Services Division.  Nothing in this Section 10.10 shall be construed to limit a Participant s or the Plan Administrator s ability to make decisions or elections with regard to his or her participation in the Plan in the same manner as other Participants. 
  10.11        Overpayments  .  If it is determined that a distribution under the Plan should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be given to the recipient of such distribution (or his legal representative) and he shall repay the amount of overpayment to the Company. If he fails to repay such amount of overpayment promptly, the Company shall arrange to recover for the Plan the amount of the overpayment by making an appropriate deduction or deductions from any future benefit payment or payments payable to that person (or his survivor or beneficiary) under the Plan or from any other benefit plan of the Company. 
  10.12        Special Rules for Participants With Same-Sex Domestic Partners  .   
  (a)        Generally  .  Effective January 1, 2013, except as specified under this Section 10.12 or as prohibited by applicable law, to the extent the Plan provides for any benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation relating to, or upon, a Participant s  spouse ,  beneficiary ,  survivor , or  family member  (or any individual having a similar relationship to the Participant), the Plan Administrator shall also apply such benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation to a Participant s  same-sex domestic partner  (as defined in (b) below) in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner that is similar to how an opposite-gender spouse would be treated under the Plan. 
  (b)        Definition of  Same-Sex Domestic Partner   .  For purposes of this Section 10.12, the term  same-sex domestic partner  means the sole, same-sex person who is in a civil union, domestic partnership, or legal relationship similar thereto, with the Participant as recognized under the laws of the federal government or a state government of the United States of America, including its territories and possessions and the District of Columbia (or, with respect to any other country, legally recognized by the equivalent government(s) thereof).  The Plan shall continue to treat such relationship as a same-sex domestic partnership, regardless of whether the Participant and his same-sex domestic partner remain in the jurisdiction where the relationship was legally entered into.  In the event more than one person meets this definition for a given Participant, then the  same-sex domestic partner  shall be the person who first met the criteria in this definition.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law, no person will qualify as the Participant s same-sex domestic partner unless such Participant s marriage to such spouse is first lawfully dissolved.  Except with respect to determining the length of time the same-sex domestic partner has satisfied the definition of same-sex domestic partner under the Plan, a Participant shall be considered to have a same-sex domestic partner only with respect to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, regardless of when such same-sex partnership was created. 
    
    26 

(c)        Exceptions  . 
  (1)        Determination of Unforeseeable Emergency  . Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law shall be considered a  spouse  for purposes of applying the definition of   Unforeseeable Emergency  in Section 1.1(xx).  
  (2)        Domestic Relations Orders  .  Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law or another  alternate payee  (as defined under Section 414(p) of the Code) may enforce a domestic relations order against the Plan or a Participant s interests hereunder pursuant to Section 10.6. 
    
  10.13            Determination of  spouse   .  Effective  September 16, 2013, or as otherwise required under Internal Revenue Service guidance, the term  spouse  means the person who is the Participant s spouse for federal tax purposes pursuant to applicable Internal Revenue Service guidance.     
    27 

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.13>
 6
 ex10-13.htm
 EX-10.13

EX10-13 

Exhibit 10.13 

   SOLAR TURBINES INCORPORATED  MANAGERIAL RETIREMENT  OBJECTIVE PLAN 
  (Restated as of December 17, 2013) 

Solar Turbines Incorporated  Managerial Retirement Objective Plan  (Restated as of December 17, 2013) 
    
  Table of Contents 
           ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS 
    1 
                ARTICLE II. ELIGIBILITY; ADOPTION BY AFFILIATES 
    3 
                 2.4 
    Discontinuance of Participation.    4 
               ARTICLE III. DETERMINATION OF BENEFIT 
    4 
               3.2 
    Amount of Benefit Payable to Participant.    4 
                 ARTICLE IV. VESTING 
    7 
               ARTICLE V. Payment OF BENEFIT 
    7 
          i 

5.4 
    Ban on Acceleration of Benefits.    9 
              ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
    9 
                ARTICLE VII. AMENDMENT 
    11 
                 ARTICLE VIII. GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    11 
                         8.12 
    Special Rules for Participants With Same-Sex Domestic Partners.    13 
        
    ii 

SOLAR TURBINES INCORPORATED  MANAGERIAL RETIREMENT OBJECTIVE PLAN 
  PREAMBLE 
  Effective May 14, 1981, Solar Turbines Incorporated (the  Company ) established the Solar Turbines Incorporated Managerial (and Professional) Retirement Objective Plan for the benefit of a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company.  By a document dated April 7, 2008, the Company formally adopted the Solar Turbines Incorporated Managerial Retirement Objective Plan (the  Plan ) as a continuation of such plan, effective as of January 1, 2005 to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and other applicable law.  The Plan has been subsequently amended on three occasions by separate documents dated July 16, 2009, November 4, 2010, and December 13, 2012.  Pursuant to its amendment authority with respect to the Plan, Caterpillar Inc. hereby adopts this restatement of the Plan as of  December 17, 2013. 
  ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS 
  1.1        General  .  When a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not begin a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be a term defined in this Article I.  The following words and phrases used in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized shall have the meanings set forth in this Article I, unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context in which the word or phrase is used or the word or phrase is defined for a limited purpose elsewhere in the Plan document: 
  (a)           409A Effective Date      means January 1, 2005. 
  (b)           Adopting Affiliate      means any Affiliate that has been authorized by the Company to adopt the Plan and which has adopted the Plan in accordance with Section 2.5.  All Affiliates that adopted the Plan on or before the Effective Date and that had not terminated such adoption shall continue to be Adopting Affiliates of the Plan. 
  (c)           Affiliate      means a parent business that controls, or a subsidiary business that is controlled by, the Company. 
  (d)           Beneficiary      means, with respect to a Participant, the person or persons entitled to receive distributions of the Participant s death benefits under SRP. 
  (e)           Benefit Determination Date    means the following: 
  (1)        On or After 409A Effective Date But Prior to January 1, 2009  .  On or after the 409A Effective Date but prior to January 1, 2009, a Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the date as of which the Participant has elected to commence benefits under SRP. 
  (2)        On or After January 1, 2009  .  On or after January 1, 2009, a Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the date determined under (i) or (ii) below: 
    1 

(i)        With respect to (x) a Participant s PEP Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(b)) or (z) a Participant s Traditional Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) where the Participant satisfies the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i) or (ii) as of the Participant s Separation from Service, the Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the first day of the month following the Participant s Separation from Service. 
  (ii)        With respect to a Participant's Traditional Benefit (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) where the Participant does not satisfy the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i) or (ii) as of the Participant s Separation from Service, the Participant s Benefit Determination Date shall be the first day of the month following the date that the Participant first satisfies the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i) or (ii). 
  (f)           Benefit Payment Date      means the date as of which the Participant s benefit amounts under the Plan shall be payable, as determined in accordance with Section 5.2(d). 
  (g)           Board      means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board. 
  (h)           Caterpillar STIP Award     means a cash award paid pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan for Management, Salaried, and Non-Bargained Hourly Employees or the Caterpillar Inc. Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan or any successor to such plans. 
  (i)           Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (j)           Company      means Solar Turbines Incorporated, and, to the extent provided in Section 8.8 below, any successor corporation or other entity resulting from a merger or consolidation into or with the Company or a transfer or sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company. 
  (k)           Disability    or    Disabled    means that a Participant is determined to be totally disabled by the United States Social Security Administration.  
  (l)           Effective Date      means January 1, 2013. 
  (m)           ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  (n)           MIP Award      means a cash award paid pursuant to the Solar Turbines Incorporated Management Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. 
  (o)           Participant      means an employee of the Company or any Adopting Affiliate who satisfies the eligibility requirements for participation in the Plan. 
  (p)           Plan      means the Solar Turbines Incorporated Managerial Retirement Objective Plan, as set forth herein and as it may be amended from time to time. 
    2 

(q)           Plan Administrator      means the Company. 
  (r)           Plan Year      means the calendar year. 
  (s)           Separation from Service      means separation from service as determined in accordance with any regulations, rulings or other guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury pursuant to Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code, as it may be amended or replaced from time to time. 
  (t)           Specified Employee      means a  key employee  as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to Section 416(i)(5) and determined in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code. 
  (u)           SRP      means the Solar Turbines Incorporated Retirement Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. 
  (v)           Unforeseeable Emergency      means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, or a  dependent  (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code) of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.  For purposes of the Plan, an  Unforeseeable Emergency  shall not include a Participant s need to send his or her child to college or a Participant s desire to purchase a home.  Any determination as to whether a Participant has incurred an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be made in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator in accordance with rules prescribed pursuant to Section 409A of the Code. 
  1.2        Construction  .      The masculine gender, when appearing in the Plan, shall include the feminine gender (and vice versa), and the singular shall include the plural, unless the Plan clearly states to the contrary.  Headings and subheadings are for the purpose of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the Plan.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be for any reason invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.  All of the provisions of the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Illinois without regard to conflict of law principles and shall be administered according to the laws of such state, except as otherwise required by ERISA, the Code, or other Federal law. 
  ARTICLE II  
  ELIGIBILITY; ADOPTION BY AFFILIATES 
    
  2.1        Eligible Employees  .  The purpose of the Plan is to provide supplemental retirement benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated employees.  This group of employees is sometimes referred to as a  top hat group.   The Plan constitutes an unfunded supplemental retirement plan and is fully exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA.  The Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with Title I of ERISA. 
  2.2        Existing Participants  .      Each individual who was a Participant in the Plan as of the date of execution of this plan document shall continue as such, subject to the provisions hereof. 
    3 

2.3        New Participants  .  An employee shall participate in the Plan if he (a) is in salary grade fifty-three (53) or higher pursuant to the Company s standard salary grades; (b) is a participant in SRP; (c) has received a MIP Award; and (d) has been notified by the Plan Administrator of the employee s eligibility to participate in the Plan. 
  2.4        Discontinuance of Participation  .  As a general rule, once an individual is a Participant, he will continue as such for all future Plan Years until his retirement or other termination of employment; provided that no payments will be made by the Plan to any Participant who terminates his or her employment with the Company prior to satisfying the requirements under Section 5.2(d)(1)(i) or (ii). In addition, prior to retirement or other termination of employment, the Plan Administrator shall discontinue an individual s participation in the Plan if the Plan Administrator concludes, in the exercise of its discretion, that the individual is no longer properly included in the top hat group.  If an individual s participation is discontinued, the individual will no longer be eligible to accrue a benefit under the Plan.  The individual will not be entitled to receive a distribution, however, until the occurrence of another event (e.g., death or Separation from Service) that entitles the individual to receive a distribution. 
  2.5        Adoption by Affiliates  .  An employee of an Affiliate may not become a Participant in the Plan unless the Affiliate has previously adopted the Plan.  An Affiliate of the Company may adopt the Plan only with the approval of the Company.  By adopting the Plan, the Affiliate shall be deemed to have agreed to assume the obligations and liabilities imposed upon it by the Plan, agreed to comply with all of the other terms and provisions of the Plan, delegated to the Plan Administrator the power and responsibility to administer the Plan with respect to the Affiliate s employees, and delegated to the Company the full power to amend or terminate the Plan with respect to the Affiliate s employees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Affiliate that has previously adopted the Plan may terminate its participation in the Plan in accordance with such rules and procedures that are promulgated by the Company. 
  ARTICLE III 
  DETERMINATION OF BENEFIT 
    
  3.1        General  .  Benefit amounts payable under the Plan shall be determined pursuant to Section 3.2 and, if applicable, adjusted pursuant to Section 3.4.  Such determinations shall be made by reference to (a) the benefit amounts that would be payable to the Participant under SRP if MIP Awards were taken into account in determining the Participant s benefits thereunder and without regard to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code and (b) the monthly benefit amounts actually payable to the Participant under the terms of SRP.  In no event, however, will any benefit amounts determined pursuant to Section 3.2 include any actuarial increases if the Participant s termination of employment or death occurs on or after the later of (a) the Participant s attainment of age 65 or (b) the Participant s fifth anniversary of the date he or she commenced participation under SRP, even if the Participant s benefit amounts payable under SRP would be determined by including such actuarial increases. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participants shall not receive any additional benefit accruals pursuant to Article III for any period on or after January 1, 2020. 
    4 

3.2        Amount of Benefit Payable to Participant  .  The monthly benefit payable to the Participant by the Plan shall be equal to the sum of the Participant s  Traditional Benefit  and  PEP Benefit  amounts (both as defined below), if any, determined under subsections (a) and (b) below as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date: 
  (a)         Traditional Benefit   .  Any benefit payable to the Participant by the Plan under the  traditional benefit  provisions under Part C of SRP, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be determined as follows: 
  (1)        Step One  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the benefit that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP if MIP Awards were taken into account for the plan years used in determining the Participant s final average salary in accordance with the terms of Part C of SRP and without regard to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. 
  (2)        Step Two  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the benefit that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP by determining the Participant s final average salary in accordance with the terms of Part C of SRP and subject to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. 
  (3)        Step Three  .  The amount determined pursuant to paragraph (2) above shall be subtracted from the amount determined pursuant to paragraph (1) above to determine the benefit payable to the Participant pursuant to this Section 3.2(a) of the Plan (herein referred to as a Participant s  Traditional Benefit ). 
  (b)         PEP Benefit   .  Any benefit payable by the Plan to the Participant under the  pension equity formula  provisions under Part E of SRP, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be determined as follows: 
  (1)        Step One  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the single sum amount that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP if MIP Awards were taken into account for the plan years used in determining the Participant s final average salary in accordance with the terms of Part E of SRP and without regard to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. 
  (2)        Step Two  .  The Plan Administrator shall determine the single sum amount that is payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP by determining the Participant s final average salary in accordance with the terms of Part E of SRP and subject to the applicable limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. 
  (3)        Step Three  .  The amount determined pursuant to paragraph (2) above shall be subtracted from the amount determined pursuant to paragraph (1) above to determine the single sum amount payable to the Participant pursuant to this Section 3.2(b) of the Plan (herein referred to as a Participant s  PEP Benefit ). 
    5 

(c)        Timing of MIP Awards  .  For purposes of Section 3.2(a)(1) and Section 3.2(b)(1) above, not more than three MIP Awards paid during any thirty-six consecutive month period shall be considered for such period when determining the benefit that would be payable to the Participant pursuant to SRP if MIP Awards were taken into account.  The Plan Administrator shall adopt uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures for determining which MIP Award(s) will be disregarded if more than three MIP Awards are paid in a thirty-six consecutive month period. 
  (d)        Caterpillar Transfers  .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, with respect to a Participant who at any time during his participation in the Plan is transferred to Caterpillar Inc. or one of its affiliates in an equivalent salary grade or higher, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, any Caterpillar STIP Award paid to such Participant shall be treated as a MIP Award for determining the monthly benefit payable pursuant to Section 3.2 and for any other applicable provision of the Plan. 
  3.3        Survivor Benefits  .  In the event a Participant dies after becoming vested under the Plan pursuant to Section 4.1 but prior to commencing his benefits under the Plan pursuant to Article V, a survivor benefit shall be payable as follows: 
  (a)        Traditional Benefit  .  With respect to a Participant s Traditional Benefit, if any, determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4), the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, shall be entitled to a monthly survivor benefit payable during the spouse s lifetime and terminating with the payment for the month in which such spouse s death occurs.  The monthly benefit payable to the surviving spouse shall be the portion of the amount determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) as of the Participant s Benefit Determination Date that the surviving spouse would have been entitled to receive under this Plan if the Participant had separated from service on the date of his death, commenced benefits in accordance with Article V in the form of a 60% (55% in the case of a Participant in benefit class code B) joint and survivor annuity (as determined in accordance with the applicable assumptions in effect under SRP), and then died immediately thereafter.  A surviving spouse who was not married to the deceased Participant for at least one year at the date of death shall not be eligible for the monthly survivor benefit pursuant to this Section 3.3. 
  (b)        PEP Benefit  .  With respect to a Participant s PEP Benefit, if any, determined under Section 3.2(b), such benefit shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after the Benefit Determination Date. 
  3.4        Early Retirement Reductions  .  Any benefits determined pursuant to this Article III shall be subject to the same reductions for early retirement as applicable under SRP. 
  3.5        Future Adjustments  .  Any benefit amounts payable under this Plan may be adjusted to take into account future amendments to SRP and increases in retirement income that are granted under SRP due to cost-of-living increases.  In no event, however, will any benefit amounts payable under this Plan be adjusted for actuarial increases if the Participant s Benefit Payment Date occurs on or after the later of (a) the Participant s attainment of age 65 or (b) the Participant s fifth anniversary of the date he or she commenced participation under SRP, even if the Participant s benefit amounts payable under SRP would be adjusted for such actuarial increases. Any benefit  
    6 

amounts payable under this Plan shall be adjusted to take into account future factors and adjustments made by the Secretary of the Treasury (in regulations or otherwise) to the limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code.   
  ARTICLE IV 
  VESTING 
    
  4.1        Vesting  .      Subject to Section 8.1, each Participant shall be vested in his or her benefit, if any, that becomes payable under Article V of the Plan to the same extent that the Participant is vested in his or her benefit accrued under SRP. 
  ARTICLE V 
  PAYMENT OF BENEFIT 
    
  5.1        Payments on or After 409A Effective Date But Prior to January 1, 2009  .  In accordance with the transitional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Treasury in Section 3 of IRS Notice 2007-86, any payment of benefits to a Participant or his Beneficiary commencing on or after the 409A Effective Date but prior to January 1, 2009 shall be made pursuant to the Participant s applicable payment election or the applicable pre-retirement survivor provisions under SRP. 
  5.2        Payments on or After January 1, 2009  .  Any payment of benefits to a Participant commencing on or after January 1, 2009 shall be determined in accordance with this Section 5.2. 
  (a)        Limitation on Right to Receive Distribution  .      A Participant shall not be entitled to receive a distribution prior to the first to occur of the following events: 
  (1)        The Participant s Separation from Service, or in the case of a Participant who is a Specified Employee, the date which is six months after the Participant s Separation from Service; 
  (2)        The date the Participant becomes Disabled; 
  (3)        The Participant s death; 
  (4)        A specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) specified at the date of deferral of compensation; 
  (5)        An Unforeseeable Emergency; or 
  (6)        To the extent provided by the Secretary of the Treasury, a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
  This Section 5.2(a) restates the restrictions on distributions set forth in Section 409A of the Code and is intended to impose restrictions on distributions pursuant to the Plan accordingly.  This Section 5.2(a) does not describe the instances in which distributions will be made.  Rather,  
    7 

distributions will be made only if and when permitted both by this Section 5.2(a) and another provision of the Plan. 
  (b)        General Right to Receive Distribution  .  Following a Participant s termination of employment or death, the Participant s benefit amounts will be paid to the Participant in the manner and at the time provided in Sections 5.2(c) and 5.2(d), as applicable.  A transfer of a Participant from the Company or any Affiliate to any other Affiliate or the Company shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of this Section 5.2(b). 
  (c)        Form of Payment  . 
  (1)        Traditional Benefit  .  Any monthly benefit payable to a Participant under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) shall be paid in the form of annuity payments as follows: 
  (i)        Unmarried Participants  .  The benefits of an unmarried Participant shall be paid in the form of a single life annuity for the Participant s life.  No payments shall be made after the Participant dies.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time, an unmarried Participant may elect, in lieu of a single life annuity, to have his or her benefits paid in any actuarially equivalent form of annuity permitted under SRP. 
  (ii)        Married Participants  .  Subject to Section 3.3, the benefits of a married Participant shall be paid in the form of a joint and survivor annuity in a monthly benefit for the Participant s life and then, if the Participant s spouse is still alive, a benefit equal to 60% (55% in the case of a Participant in benefit class code B) of the Participant s monthly benefit is paid to the spouse for the remainder of his or her life (as determined in accordance with the applicable assumptions in effect under SRP).  If the Participant s spouse is not alive when the Participant dies, no further payments shall be made.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time, a married Participant may, with the written consent of the Participant s spouse, elect to waive the joint and survivor annuity of this subparagraph (ii) and instead elect a single life annuity or any actuarially equivalent form of annuity permitted under SRP. 
  In addition, if the Participant s Benefit Payment Date, as described in clauses (i) or (ii) of Section 5.2(d)(1), is delayed pursuant to the last sentence of Section 5.2(d)(1), then any monthly benefit amounts that would have been paid if not for such last sentence will be credited with interest at five percent (5%) per annum through the Participant s Benefit Payment Date.  Such delayed monthly benefit amounts and interest shall be paid in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after such Benefit Payment Date. 
  (2)        PEP Benefit  .  Any benefit payable to a Participant determined under Section 3.2(b) shall be paid in a single sum amount.  In addition, if the Participant s Benefit Payment Date, as described in Section 5.2(d)(2), is delayed pursuant to the first sentence of Section 5.2(d)(2), then any single sum amount that would have been paid if not for such first sentence will be credited with interest at five percent (5%) per annum through the Participant s Benefit Payment  
    8 

Date.  Such interest shall be paid in a single sum amount as soon as administratively feasible after such Benefit Payment Date. 
    
  (d)        Timing of Payment  . 
  (1)        Traditional Benefit  .    Except as provided below, any benefit determined under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) that becomes payable to the Participant following Separation from Service shall commence on the first day of the month following the earliest of the following: 
  (i)        the Participant s attainment of age 65 or, if later, the Participant s fifth anniversary of the date he or she commenced participation under SRP; or 
  (ii)        the Participant s attainment of age 55 after completing at least 10 years of credited service. 
  For purposes of (ii) above, the Plan Administrator shall determine the Participant s  years of credited service  by reference to the applicable terms under SRP. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.2(d)(1), in no event shall any benefit payable to a Participant under Section 3.2(a) (and, if applicable, adjusted under Section 3.4) commence earlier than the first day of the month coincident with or next following a date that is at least six months after the Participant s Separation from Service, except in the event of the Participant s death, in which case any benefit payable to the Participant s Beneficiary shall commence as of the applicable date specified in Section 3.3(a). 
  For avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no payments will be made by the Plan to any Participant who terminates his or her employment with the Company prior to satisfying the requirements under subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above. 
  (2)        PEP Benefit  .    Subject to the last paragraph of Section 5.2(d)(1), any benefit determined under Section 3.2(b) that becomes payable to the Participant following Separation from Service shall be paid on the first day of the month that is at least six months after the Participant s Separation from Service.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of the Participant s death, any benefit payable to the Participant s Beneficiary will be paid as soon as administratively feasible after the date of the Participant s death. 
  5.3        Withholding  .      All distributions will be subject to all applicable tax and withholding requirements. 
  5.4        Ban on Acceleration of Benefits  .  Neither the time nor the schedule of any payment under the Plan may be accelerated except as permitted in regulations or other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of the Treasury and as incorporated herein. 
  ARTICLE VI 
    9 

ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
    
  6.1        General Powers and Duties  .      The following list of powers and duties is not intended to be exhaustive, and the Plan Administrator shall, in addition, exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as he may deem advisable in the administration of the Plan, unless such powers or duties are expressly assigned to another pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 
  (a)        General  .  The Plan Administrator shall perform the duties and exercise the powers and discretion given to it in the Plan document and by applicable law and its decisions and actions shall be final and conclusive as to all persons affected thereby.  The Company and the Adopting Affiliates shall furnish the Plan Administrator with all data and information that it may reasonably require in order to perform its functions.  The Plan Administrator may rely without question upon any such data or information. 
  (b)        Disputes  .  Any and all disputes that may arise involving Participants or beneficiaries shall be referred to the Plan Administrator and its decision shall be final.  Furthermore, if any question arises as to the meaning, interpretation or application of any provisions of the Plan, the decision of the Plan Administrator shall be final. 
  (c)        Agents  .  The Plan Administrator may engage agents, including recordkeepers, to assist it and it may engage legal counsel who may be counsel for the Company.  The Plan Administrator shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken on the advice of such counsel, including written opinions or certificates of any agent, counsel, actuary or physician. 
  (d)        Insurance  .  The Company may purchase liability insurance to cover its activities as the Plan Administrator. 
  (e)        Allocations  .  The Plan Administrator is given specific authority to allocate responsibilities to others and to revoke such allocations.  When the Plan Administrator has allocated authority pursuant to this paragraph, the Plan Administrator is not to be liable for the acts or omissions of the party to whom such responsibility has been allocated. 
  (f)        Records  .  The Plan Administrator shall supervise the establishment and maintenance of records by its agents, the Company and each Adopting Affiliate containing all relevant data pertaining to any person affected hereby and his or her rights under the Plan. 
  (g)        Interpretations  .  The Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan (and any underlying documents or policies). 
  (h)        Electronic Administration  .  The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to employ alternative means (including, but not limited to, electronic, internet, intranet, voice response or telephonic) by which Participants may submit elections, directions and forms required for participation in, and the administration of, the Plan.  If the Plan Administrator chooses to use these alternative means, any elections, directions or forms submitted in accordance with the rules  
    10 

and procedures promulgated by the Plan Administrator will be deemed to satisfy any provision of the Plan calling for the submission of a written election, direction or form. 
  (i)        Delegation  .  The Plan Administrator may delegate its authority hereunder, in whole or in part, in its sole and absolute discretion. 
  6.2        Claims Procedures  .  Benefit claims under the Plan shall be resolved in accordance with Code Section 409A and uniform and nondiscriminatory procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA. 
  ARTICLE VII 
  AMENDMENT 
    
  7.1        Amendment  .      Subject to the provisions of this Article VII, the Company and the Company s parent, Caterpillar Inc., each may amend the Plan at any time as designated by a written instrument duly adopted on behalf of the Company or Caterpillar Inc., as applicable. 
  7.2        Effect of Amendment  .      Any amendment of the Plan shall not directly or indirectly reduce the benefits previously accrued by the Participant. 
  7.3        Termination  .      The Company and the Company s parent, Caterpillar Inc., each expressly reserve the right to terminate the Plan.  In the event of termination, the Company or Caterpillar Inc., as applicable, shall specify whether termination will change the time at which distributions are made; provided that any acceleration of a distribution is consistent with Section 409A of the Code. In the absence of such specification, the timing of distributions shall be unaffected by termination. 
  ARTICLE VIII 
  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    
  8.1        Participant s Rights Unsecured  .      The Plan at all times shall be entirely unfunded and no provision shall at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company for payment of any distributions hereunder.  The right of a Participant or his or her Beneficiary to receive benefits hereunder shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, and neither the Participant nor his Beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company.  All amounts accrued by Participants hereunder shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem appropriate.  Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Company from establishing a  Rabbi Trust,  but the assets in the Rabbi Trust must be available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of the Company s insolvency. 
  8.2        No Guaranty of Benefits  .      Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guaranty by the Company or any other person or entity that the assets of the Company will be sufficient to pay any benefit hereunder. 
    11 

8.3        No Enlargement of Employee Rights  .      No Participant shall have any right to receive a distribution from the Plan except in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Company or an Adopting Affiliate. 
  8.4        Section 409A Compliance  .  The Company intends that the Plan meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder.  The Plan shall be administered, construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with that intention. 
  8.5        Spendthrift Provision  .      No interest of any person or entity in, or right to receive a distribution under, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, or other alienation or encumbrance of any kind; nor shall any such interest or right to receive a distribution be taken, either voluntarily or involuntarily, for the satisfaction of the debts of, or other obligations or claims against, such person or entity, including claims in bankruptcy proceedings.  This Section shall not preclude arrangements for the withholding of taxes from deferrals, credits, or benefit payments, arrangements for the recovery of benefit overpayments, arrangements for the transfer of benefit rights to another plan, or arrangements for direct deposit of benefit payments to an account in a bank, savings and loan association or credit union (provided that such arrangement is not part of an arrangement constituting an assignment or alienation). 
  8.6        Domestic Relations Orders  .      Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, the amounts payable pursuant to the Plan may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan Administrator from time to time. 
  8.7        Incapacity of Recipient  .      If the Plan Administrator is served with a court order holding that a person entitled to a distribution under the Plan is incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for such distribution, the Plan Administrator shall postpone payment until such time as a claim therefore shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person.  The Plan Administrator is under no obligation to inquire or investigate as to the competency of any person entitled to a distribution.  Any payment to an appointed guardian or other legal representative under this Section shall be a payment for the account of the incapacitated person and a complete discharge of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefor. 
  8.8        Successors  .      The Plan shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and upon the heirs, beneficiaries and personal representatives of the individuals who become Participants hereunder. 
  8.9        Limitations on Liability  .      Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, neither the Plan Administrator, the Company, nor any individual acting as the Plan Administrator s, or the Company s employee, agent, or representative shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, Beneficiary or other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan. 
    12 

8.10        Overpayments  .  If it is determined that the benefits under the Plan should not have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be given to the recipient of such benefits (or his legal representative) and he shall repay the amount of overpayment to the Company.  If he fails to repay such amount of overpayment promptly, the Company shall arrange to recover for the Plan the amount of the overpayment by making an appropriate deduction or deductions from any future benefit payment or payments payable to that person (or his survivor or beneficiary) under the Plan or from any other benefit plan of the Company. 
  8.11        Plan Freeze  .    As a result of the freeze of SRP, benefit accruals will be frozen under the Plan.  This Section 8.11 provides clarification regarding the freeze of the Plan.  Effective January 1, 2020, benefit accruals under the Plan shall cease for all Participants.  No Participants shall accrue any benefits under the Plan for any period of employment on or after January 1, 2020. For avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall continue to receive credited service for any period of employment on or after such date for purposes of determining his or her vesting under Section 4.1 and his or her eligibility to commence benefits under Section 5.2(d). 
  8.12        Special Rules for Participants With Same-Sex Domestic Partners  .   
  (a)        Generally  .  Except as specified under this Section 8.12 or as prohibited by applicable law, to the extent the Plan provides for any benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation relating to, or upon, a Participant s  spouse ,  Beneficiary ,  survivor , or  surviving spouse  (or any individual having a similar relationship to the Participant), the Plan Administrator shall also apply such benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation to a Participant s  same-sex domestic partner  (as defined in (b) below) in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner that is similar to how an opposite-gender spouse would be treated under the Plan. 
  (b)        Definition of  Same-Sex Domestic Partner   .  For purposes of this Section 8.12, the term  same-sex domestic partner  means the sole, same-sex person who is in a civil union, domestic partnership, or legal relationship similar thereto, with the Participant as recognized under the laws of the federal government or a state government of the United States of America, including its territories and possessions and the District of Columbia (or, with respect to any other country, legally recognized by the equivalent government(s) thereof).  The Plan shall continue to treat such relationship as a same-sex domestic partnership, regardless of whether the Participant and his same-sex domestic partner remain in the jurisdiction where the relationship was legally entered into.  In the event more than one person meets this definition for a given Participant, then the  same-sex domestic partner  shall be the person who first met the criteria in this definition.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law, no person will qualify as the Participant s same-sex domestic partner unless such Participant s marriage to such spouse is first lawfully dissolved.  Except with respect to determining the length of time the same-sex domestic partner has satisfied the definition of same-sex domestic partner under the Plan, a Participant shall be considered to have a same-sex domestic partner only with respect to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, regardless of when such same-sex partnership was created. 
  (c)        Exceptions  . 
    13 

(1)        Determination of Status as a  married Participant   .  For purposes of Section 5.2(c)(1), a Participant shall be considered a  married Participant  only if the Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law.  For avoidance of doubt, a  Participant  with a same-sex domestic partner is considered to be an  unmarried Participant  and is not required to obtain the same-sex domestic partner s consent for the election of any form of payment provided under the Plan, and the normal form of benefit for purposes of Section 5.2(c)(1) for any such Participant shall be a single life annuity for the Participant s life. 
  (2)        Determination of Unforeseeable Emergency  . Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law shall be considered a  spouse  for purposes of applying the definition of   Unforeseeable Emergency  in Section 1.1(v). 
  (3)        Domestic Relations Orders  .  Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law or another  alternate payee  (as defined under Section 414(p) of the Code) may enforce a domestic relations order against the Plan or a Participant s interests hereunder pursuant to Section 8.6. 
  8.13        Determination of  Spouse   .    Effective September 16, 2013, or as otherwise required under Internal Revenue Service guidance, the term  spouse  means the person who is the Participant s spouse for federal tax purposes pursuant to applicable Internal Revenue Service guidance. 
    
    14 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.14>
 7
 ex10-14.htm
 EX-10.14

EX10-14 

Exhibit 10.14 

   Solar Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan       For  European Foreign Service Employees         (Amended and Restated as of December 17, 2013) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
    
                 ARTICLE I 
    DEFINITIONS 
      ARTICLE II 
    ELIGIBILITY 
      ARTICLE III 
    RETIREMENT DATES 
      ARTICLE IV 
    BENEFITS 
      ARTICLE V 
    DISABILITY PENSION 
      ARTICLE VI 
    PRERETIREMENT SURVIVOR'S BENEFITS 
      ARTICLE VII 
    MAXIMUM BENEFITS 
      ARTICLE VIII 
    MODES OF BENEFIT PAYMENT 
      ARTICLE IX 
    DEATH BENEFITS 
      ARTICLE X 
    VESTING 
      ARTICLE XI 
    CONTRIBUTIONS 
      ARTICLE XII 
    ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
      ARTICLE XIII 
    AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION 
      ARTICLE XIV 
    GENERAL PROVISIONS 

i 

PREAMBLE 
  The Solar Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan for European Foreign Service Employees (the  Plan ) was established as of January 1, 1987.  The Plan has been and is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide retirement benefits for a select group of management employees or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and Department of Labor Regulations 29 C.F.R.  2520.104-23, and shall be so construed.   
    
  Effective June 1, 2011, participation in the Plan is frozen.  Any individual who was not a Participant in the Plan on or before May 31, 2011 is not eligible to become a participant in the Plan after such date. 
    
  Effective January 1, 2020, benefit accruals under the Plan shall cease for all Participants.  No one shall accrue any benefits under the Plan for any period of employment on or after January 1, 2020.  For avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall continue to receive service credit for any period of employment on or after such date for purposes of determining the Participant s vesting and eligibility to commence benefits under the Plan. 
    
  This amended and restated Plan is effective as of the dates stated herein. 

ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS 
  1.1     Accrued Benefit  or  Accrued Retirement Benefit  means, as of any date, the Retirement Benefit computed in accordance with Article IV, based on the Participant s Pensionable Earnings on such date, and assuming termination occurred on the Normal Retirement Date, multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction shall be the Participant s actual years of Credited Service and the denominator shall be the years of Credited Service he would have completed if he had continued in employment until his Normal Retirement Date. 
  1.2     Actuarial Equivalent  means the value of the Retirement Benefit otherwise payable to a Participant determined in accordance with the actuarial equivalent factors selected by the Company and in effect at the time the computation is made. 
  1.3     Annuity Commencement Date  means the first day of the month in which a Participant s Retirement Benefit is due to commence pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 
  1.4     Associate Employer  means Caterpillar Inc. its subsidiaries and divisions, excluding Solar Turbines Incorporated, its subsidiaries and divisions. 
  1.5     Beneficiary  means the person designated in writing by a Participant to receive any death benefit payments hereunder. 
  1.6     Code  means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
    1 

1.7     Company  means Solar Turbines Incorporated and all of its subsidiaries and divisions. 
  1.8     Compensation  means the amount of base salary paid to a Participant in a month during which he is an EFSE and a Participant under the provisions of this Plan; subject to the following: 
  For Participants who are eligible for the Company s Target Total Cash Compensation under plans in effect on and after January 1, 1985, Compensation will include a Participant s job rate, performance incentive, merit alternative if applicable, bookings, margin and/or revenue incentives. However, the cumulative total of bookings, margin and/or revenue incentives earned for the includable period cannot exceed the cumulative total of the related bookings, margin or revenue incentive target amount for the same period. 
  Payments for bonus, premiums, living allowance, differentials or any other additional compensation will not be included. 
  1.9     Converted Pension  means the retirement benefit due a Participant or Beneficiary and converted into a currency other than U.S. Dollars. A  Converted Pension  election can be exercised only at the time a benefit is due from the Plan and must be approved by the Company. Once a  Converted Pension  payment is selected and approved it is irrevocable. 
  1.10     Credited Service  means all full years and full months of continuous service, not to exceed 35 years, with the Company while an EFSE and a Participant under the provisions of this Plan. Time spent on an approved paid leave of absence shall be considered as continuous service for purposes of this Plan, provided the leave is ended by return to work, retirement, death or disability. 
  Time spent on approved unpaid leave of absence in excess of 30 days for other than total disability, shall be deducted from continuous service. A Participant who fails to return to work from an approved leave of absence shall be considered as having terminated his employment on the last day that he was at work. 
  Once an employee is designated as an EFSE, all prior credited service under a Company Sponsored Pension Plan shall be considered Credited Service for the purpose of accruing benefits under this Plan. However, for Employees who are designated as EFSEs on or after July 1, 1999, Credited Service shall only include continuous service while an EFSE. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participants shall not receive Credited Service for benefit accrual purposes for any periods of employment on or after January 1, 2020.  For avoidance of doubt, a Participant shall continue to receive Credited Service for any period of service on or after January 1, 2020 for purposes of determining the Participant s vesting and eligibility to commence benefits under the Plan. 
    2 

1.11     Disability  means total and permanent disability of a Participant due to bodily or mental injury, sickness or disease, which prevents him from engaging in any employment or occupation for remuneration or profit for more than six months. Such total disability chart be determined on the basis of a medical examination by a qualified physician selected by the Company. 
    
  The definition of Disability shall   not   include illness or injury resulting from: 
           (A) 
    chronic alcoholism; or 
              (B) 
    addiction to narcotics; or 
              (C) 
    injury suffered while engaged in a felonious or criminal act or enterprise; or 
              (D) 
    service in the armed forces; or 
              (E) 
    participation in war or act of war. 
     1.12     European Foreign Service Employee (EFSE)  means an employee designated as such by the Company. 
  1.13     Married Participant  means a Participant who is lawfully married on the date Retirement Benefits become payable pursuant to Articles IV, V or VI. 
  1.14     Participant  means an Employee designated pursuant to Article II and who continues to be entitled to any benefits under the Plan. 
  1.15     Pensionable Earnings  means the average Compensation which has been paid to a Participant on account of continuous service during those 36 consecutive months of EFSE employment, included within the last 60 full months of his EFSE employment prior to Normal Retirement (or actual period of employment, if less) for which he received his highest compensation during such periods. 
  A Participant who has ten (10) years or more of continuous service and who is over fifty-five (55) years of age, is transferred prior to retirement to a part-time status without interruption of continuity of service, his Pensionable Earnings shall be determined by the Company as if such employee has retired when placed on a part-time status. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Pensionable Earnings shall not include Compensation earned or paid on or after January 1, 2020. 
  1.16     Plan  means the Solar Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan for European Foreign Service Employees as herein set forth and as it may thereafter be amended from time to time. 
    3 

1.17     Plan Year  means the 12 month period beginning January 1. 
  1.18     Social Security Benefit  means all benefits (including the actuarial equivalent of lump sum benefits expressed as a lifetime pension) available to the Participant as of his Normal Retirement Date under the provisions of governmental, provincial or state Social Security Act(s). If a Participant terminates his employment before Normal Retirement, his Social Security Benefit will be estimated by assuming: a) that he will receive no further earnings if he then satisfies the requirements for Early Retirement or Disability Retirement under Article III; or b) that his earnings will continue at the same rate as in effect on the date of termination of employment if he does not then satisfy the requirements for Early Retirement or Disability Retirement under Article III. 
  The Company may adopt rules governing the computation of such amounts, and the fact that the Participant does not actually receive such amounts because or failure to apply, or continuance or work, or for any other reason, shall be disregarded. 
  1.19     Retirement Benefit  means the benefits provided to Participants and their Beneficiaries in accordance with the applicable provisions of Articles IV, V and VI. The Retirement Benefit will be computed in U.S. Dollars and is normally paid in U.S. Dollars. 
  1.20     Vested Percentage  means a Participant s right to an Accrued Benefit pursuant to Article X. 
  ARTICLE II      ELIGIBILITY    
  2.1      Eligibility  .  Each employee designated as an European Foreign Service Employee (EFSE) who commenced employment with the Company on or before January 1, 1987, became a Participant on January 1, 1987.  Other employees become Participants coincident with or on the first day of the month next following their designation as an EFSE by the Company. 
  2.2      Participation Frozen  .  Effective June 1, 2011, participation in the Plan is frozen.  Any individual who was not a Participant in the Plan on or before May 31, 2011 is not eligible to become a Participant in the Plan after such date.  Any Participant whose employment terminates on or after June 1, 2011, shall not be eligible to resume participation in the Plan if subsequently reemployed by the Company or an Associate Employer.  Similarly any Participant who ceases to be an European Foreign Service Employee on or after June 1, 2011, shall not be eligible to resume participation in the Plan if on or after June 1, 2011, such individual is re-designated as an European Foreign Service Employee by the Company. 
    4 

ARTICLE III      RETIREMENT DATES 
  3.1      Normal Retirement Date  . A Participant s Normal Retirement Date shall be the first day of the month coinciding with or next following his 65th birthday. A Participant whose employment is terminated on his Normal Retirement Date shall be considered to have retired and shall receive a Normal Retirement Benefit in accordance with Article IV. 
  3.2      Early Retirement Date  . Each Participant whose employment is terminated prior to his Normal Retirement Date, but after he has attained age 55 and completed at least 10 years of Credited Service, may elect to retire with the approval of the Company.  Such Participant s Early Retirement Date shall be the first day of the month next following the month in which such termination of employment occurs. Early Retirement benefits will be determined in accordance with Article IV. 
  3.3      Late Retirement Date  . Each Participant may continue his service with the Company after the Normal Retirement Date with the approval of the Company. No payment of any benefit shall be made to such Participant until his actual retirement. The Participant will not earn any Credited Service after the Normal Retirement Date, and will be paid in accordance with Article IV. 
  3.4      Disability Retirement Date  . A Participant whose employment is terminated prior to his Normal Retirement Date by reason of a Disability, as defined in Section 1.11, shall be eligible for Disability Retirement and shall receive a benefit in accordance with Article V. 
  ARTICLE IV      BENEFITS 
  4.1      Normal Retirement  . A Participant retiring on his Normal Retirement Date shall be entitled, commencing on such date, to receive a monthly Retirement Benefit for life computed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.5. 
  4.2      Early Retirement  . A Participant retiring on his Early Retirement Date shall be entitled to receive a deferred Retirement Benefit, commencing on his Normal Retirement Date, equal to 100% of his Accrued Benefit.  A reduced Retirement Benefit can be elected prior to the Normal Retirement Date, equal to 100% of the Accrued Benefit, but reduced by 1/240th for each month that the date of commencement precedes the Participant s Normal Retirement Date. 
  4.3      Late Retirement  . A Participant retiring on his Late Retirement Date shall be entitled, commencing on such date, to receive a monthly Retirement Benefit for life. Such Late Retirement Benefit will be determined as the Actuarial Equivalent of the Normal Retirement benefit computed as of the Participant s Normal Retirement Date. 
    
  4.4      Vested Benefits  . A Participant who has terminated employment after the Effective Date with a Vested Percentage, shall be entitled to receive a deferred monthly benefit commencing  
    5 

on his Normal Retirement Date equal to his Accrued Benefit.  Alternatively, a reduced monthly benefit can be elected to commence after attainment of age 55, computed in accordance with Section 4.2. 
  4.5      Form of Normal Retirement Benefit  . Subject to Article VIII, the primary form of Retirement Benefit payable to a Participant shall be a monthly annuity payable to the Participant for life, equal to (A) minus the aggregate of (B), (C), and (D).  In no event, however, shall the monthly annuity amount calculated pursuant to this Section 4.5 exceed the amount set forth in (E). 
           (A) 
    .0175 times Credited Service times Pensionable Earnings. 
     (B)    100% of the monthly benefits for old age pension to which the Participant is entitled as a result of service with the Company and which the Participant can collect (or has collected or could collect by proper application) under any compulsory program, i.e. Social Security Benefits, a compulsory benefit payable as a result of union or collective bargaining agreements, and governmental decrees or directives having the force of law. For purposes of this Article IV, such offsets shall exclude benefits payable to the spouse (or other family members) which are attributable to the Participant s service with the Company, and for which the Company did not make additional contributions. 
  Normal Retirement Benefits shall be determined assuming the Participant is eligible to receive Social Security Benefits. If the Participant is not eligible for Social Security Benefits, or receives Social Security Benefits in a lesser amount than determined under the Plan, it is the Participant s responsibility to provide proof either of ineligibility or the amount of the actual Social Security Benefit received. Proof must be submitted within 60 days following the date of retirement. 
  (C)     100% of the monthly benefits for old age pension (based on a straight life annuity) which the Participant is entitled to under any formal or informal private benefit plan established by the Company or Associate Company in any country for the same period of service, except to the extent that if the Participant was required to contribute to the program, only 50% of such benefits will be considered.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, to the extent the Participant is entitled to a benefit from the Caterpillar Inc. Retirement Income Plan ( RIP ) for a period of service during which the Participant also accrued a benefit under the Plan, the benefit determined under RIP shall be excluded from the offset described in this paragraph (C).     
   (D)    The actuarial equivalent of any lump sum termination indemnity as a lifetime monthly income multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is years of participation in this Plan and the denominator of which is the total years of service used to determine the indemnity benefit. For purposes of this Section 4.5(D), only lump sum termination indemnities which represent payment of the Participant s accrued pension liability shall be included. 
  (E)    Notwithstanding anything provision of this Section to the contrary, the benefit payable hereunder shall be subject to the limitations on retirement income set forth in final Treasury Regulations issued under Section 415 of the Code and any other regulations, rulings or other administrative guidance issued pursuant thereto by the Internal Revenue Service, to the same extent as if such regulations, rulings and guidance applied to this Plan. 
    6 

(F)    Effective January 1, 2020, benefit accruals under the Plan shall cease for all Participants.  No Participant shall accrue any benefits under the Plan for any period of employment on or after January 1, 2020. 
    
  ARTICLE V      DISABILITY PENSION 
  5.1      Disability Pension  . In the event the Participant becomes disabled in accordance with Section 1.11 when he is an EFSE and a Participant under the provisions of this Plan, he shall be entitled to a pension calculated in accordance with Section 4.5 except that: 
  (A)    Pensionable Earnings shall mean that annual compensation being paid to the Participant on the date disability commenced, and 
  (B)    Credited Service shall be deemed to include the years and months between the date disability commenced and the Participant s Normal Retirement Date. 
    
  ARTICLE VI      PRERETIREMENT SURVIVOR S BENEFITS 
  6.1      Spouse s and Orphan s Pension  .   
  (A)    If a Participant dies prior to his commencement of benefits hereunder and while such Participant is no longer an employee of the Company or Associate Employer, there shall be paid to his Spouse, a pension equal to 50% of the pension calculated in accordance with Section 4.4 except that the benefit shall be reduced by the applicable amount of the spouse s Social Security Benefit, and not the amount of the Participant s Social Security Benefit.   
  (B)    If a Participant dies prior to his commencement of benefits hereunder and while such Participant is an employee of the Company or Associate Employer, there shall be paid to his Spouse, a pension equal to 50% of the pension calculated pursuant to Section 6.2.   
  (C)    If a Participant dies prior to his commencement of benefits hereunder and while such Participant is an employee of the Company or Associate Employer, there shall be paid to each eligible child (as defined below), a pension equal to 10% of the amount determined in Section 6.2, such amount shall be doubled to 20% if the spouse of the Participant has predeceased the Participant.  For purposes of this Article VI, an  eligible child  is a child of the Participant who is the natural, adopted, step-child or a child for whom the Participant has legal responsibility, who has not yet attained age 19, or age 25 if a full-time student.  
    7 

(D)    Any pension being paid to the spouse of a Participant pursuant to this Section 6.1 shall be paid for the spouse s lifetime, except that such pension shall cease in the event of remarriage of such spouse.  Any pension being paid to the eligible child of a Participant pursuant to this Section 6.1 shall cease when such child is no longer an eligible child. 
  (E)  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything in this Article VI to the contrary, the total of all amounts paid pursuant to this Section 6.1 shall not exceed 100% of the benefit calculated in accordance with Section 6.2. 
  6.2      Benefit Calculation  .  For purposes of Section 6.1 above (excluding Section 6.1(A)), the pension amount shall be calculated in accordance with Section 4.5, except that: 
  (i)  Pensionable Earnings shall mean the annual compensation being paid to the Participant on the date of death, and  
  (ii)  Credited Service shall be deemed to include the years and months between the date of death and the Participant s Normal Retirement Date (had the Participant lived until his or her Normal Retirement Date). 
  For purposes of determining the spouse s and orphan s benefits described in Article VI, the benefit determined pursuant to this Section 6.2 shall be reduced by the applicable amount of the spouse s or orphan s Social Security Benefit, and not the amount of the Participant s Social Security Benefit.   
  6.3      Other Death Benefit  .  If a Participant dies prior to his Normal Retirement Date and while such Participant is an employee of the Company or Associate Employer and while such Participant is not married and has no eligible children (as defined in Section 6.1 above), there shall be paid a lump sum amount equal to two times the Participant s annual compensation to such Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, as the Participant may designate.  Such lump sum death benefit shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable following the death of the Participant, but in no event more than 60 days following the date of the Participant s death.    
    
  ARTICLE VII      MAXIMUM BENEFITS 
  7.1      Maximum Benefits  . The maximum pension from all. Company sources may never exceed 80% of the Pensionable Earnings. The factors to be considered in this limit are: 
           (i) 
    The retirement benefit as calculated in Article IV, V or VI. 
              (ii) 
    Other company sponsored plans. 
              (iii) 
    Social Security as defined in Section 1.18. 
       8 

(iv) 
    Social benefits provided by the Company. 
              (v) 
    The monthly equivalent, on an actuarial basis, of any termination indemnity. 
     7.2      Reemployment  . If a retired Participant returns to the employ of the Company, his monthly Retirement Benefit shall cease for as long as he continues to be employed. During the period of reemployment, the Employee will participate in the Plan provided he meets the requirements of Section 2.1. 
  Upon subsequent retirement, the Participant shall be eligible to recommence a monthly Retirement Benefit attributable to his Accrued Benefit. However, the amount payable will be recomputed taking into account such Compensation and Credited Years of Service as allowed under Article IV, but only to the extent the Participant was an EFSE during the period of reemployment. Credited Years of Service shall not include service during the period of retirement prior to reemployment. 
  Such recomputed Retirement Benefit shall be reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent of the value, at the Participant s subsequent retirement date, of the Accrued Benefit payments previously received. In no event shall the recomputed Retirement Benefit, after such Actuarial Equivalent reduction, be less than the Retirement Benefit to which the Participant was entitled prior to his date of reemployment. 
  7.3    No Participant shall be entitled to receive benefits under this Plan unless he meets the requirements of the Company regarding required participation in the various Government pension plans in the Participant s home country and/or country of assignment, the contributions to such plans are paid directly or indirectly by the Company. 
  ARTICLE VIII      MODES OF BENEFIT PAYMENT 
  8.1      Retirement Benefit  . Subject to the other provisions of this Article, a Participant may elect to have the Retirement Benefits paid under any of the optional forms of payment described in Section 8.2. 
  8.2      Optional Modes of Payment  . A Participant may elect to receive Retirement Benefits under any one of the following options: 
           (A) 
    Joint and Survivor Annuity  : 
     A reduced rate of Retirement Benefit during his lifetime, with income at 50%, 75% or 100%, whichever the Participant elects, of that reduced rate continuing to his Beneficiary. The Joint and Survivor Annuity will be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Retirement Benefit provided under Article IV or V. 
           (B) 
    Years Certain and Life Annuity  : 
       9 

A Retirement Benefit which is the Actuarial Equivalent of the Retirement Benefit provided under Section 4.5, payable for his lifetime, but guaranteed for a period of ten (10) or twenty (20) years, whichever the Participant elects. 
  If the Participant dies before expiration of the guaranteed period, the remaining certain payments shall continue to his Beneficiary, or in the absence of a surviving Beneficiary, the commuted value of such payments shall be paid to the Participant s estate. 
  If the Beneficiary dies while further payments are due, and after having received at least one (1) payment, such further payments shall be made to any person designated by the Participant as an alternate Beneficiary. In the absence of an alternate surviving Beneficiary, the commuted value of such payments shall be paid to the estate of the last surviving Beneficiary. 
           (C) 
    Lump Sum  : 
     A Participant shall have the option to elect to have the actuarial equivalent of his Accrued Benefit paid to him in a lump sum. 
  Such lump sum payment shall satisfy the liability of the Company in full, such that if the Participant were to be subsequently reemployed by the Company, he would be treated, for purposes of determining his Credited Years of Service, as a new Employee. 
  8.3      Election of Other Options  . The following rules and requirements must be met in order for any of the options described in Section 8.2 to be effective: 
  (A)    The election must be made on an appropriate form no later than ninety (90) days prior to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date or earlier date of actual retirement. 
  (B)    The effective date of the option shall be the Participant s Normal Retirement Date or earlier date of actual retirement which must be at least ninety (90) days after the date on which the election is made. 
  (C)    The name of the Beneficiary and address and relationship to the Participant must be stated on the form unless a lump sum is elected. The percentage of the Retirement Benefit to the Participant to be continued to the Joint Annuitant after the Participant s death, as well as the Beneficiary s sex and date of birth, must also be stated on the election form. Proof of date of birth, acceptable to the Company, must be submitted within 90 days after the election is made. 
           (D) 
    The consent of the Beneficiary shall not be required for the election of an option. 
     (E)    The election of an option may be cancelled or modified, subject to the same conditions that apply to the election of an option. However, the conditions for the cancellation or modification of an option may be waived by the Company if, in its opinion, the waiver of such conditions would have no adverse actuarial effect. A Participant may not change the Contingent Annuitant under Section 8.2, paragraph (A), other than by modification of the option in accordance with the foregoing rules. The election of an option may not be cancelled or modified subsequent to the Annuity Commencement Date. 
    10 

ARTICLE IX      DEATH BENEFITS 
  9.1      Pre-Retirement   - A death benefit will be payable. This benefit will be in accordance with Article VI. 
  9.2      Post-Retirement   - The benefit payable will be determined by the retirement benefit option selected by the participant at date of retirement. 
    
  ARTICLE X      VESTING 
  10.1    If a Participant s employment terminates for any reason other than Death or Disability, he shall have a non-forfeitable right to the Accrued Retirement Benefit according to the following schedule: 

10.2    A Participant whose employment is terminated for any reason, other than Death, Disability, prior to the completion of 5 Years of Credited Service shall cease to be a Participant; his Accrued Retirement Benefit will be cancelled, and he shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Plan. 
  10.3    If the Company decides that a Participant is no longer eligible, the Participant s Accrued Benefit shall be frozen until he qualifies for a pension under any provision in Article III. 
  10.4    Should a Participant resign or be discharged before satisfaction of the requirements for a pension under Article III, no person shall have any vested claim to benefits under this Plan except as provided in Section 10.1. Should any Participant die after becoming eligible for retirement benefits under the Plan, no person shall have any claim to benefits under this Plan except as provided by the Participant through the selection of an optional annuity as prescribed by the Company. 
  10.5    Any Participant who leaves the employ of the Company and is subsequently reemployed shall be considered, for purposes of this Plan, as a new Employee from the date of his reemployment, unless otherwise determined by the Company. 
    11 

10.6    For the calculation of credited service, all service as a European Foreign Service Employee or previously known as International Employees or European Employees shall be counted. 
  ARTICLE XI      CONTRIBUTIONS 
  11.1      Employer Contributions  . For periods before the effective date of this amended and restated Plan, this Section is intended to clarify the Plan as in effect since it was established.  Subject to Section 14.1, the Company will contribute to an insurance contract such amounts as it considers appropriate based on actuarial calculations to provide the benefits under this Plan. The Company is under no obligation to make any contributions under the Plan after the Plan is terminated, whether or not benefits accrued or vested prior to such date or termination have been fully funded. 
    
  ARTICLE XII      ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN 
  12.1    This Plan is administered by the Company. 
  The Company shall have the power and authority to interpret the provisions of this Plan and to devise and make effective from time to time such procedures as may, in its judgment, be advisable and necessary to carry out said provisions. Whenever, in the Company s opinion, a person entitled to receive any payment of a benefit or installment thereof hereunder is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Company may direct payments to such person or to his legal representative for his benefit, or to apply the payment for the benefit of such person in such manner as the Company considers advisable. Determination by the Company as to the interpretation and application of this Plan shall be conclusive on all parties and its action shall not be subject to any review. 
  The Company reserves the right to carefully review the situation of each employee and if necessary, to modify the provisions of this Plan to adapt the underlying philosophy and objectives to a particular employee or employment situation. 
  Nothing contemplated herein shall be inconsistent with any applicable provisions of Code Section 409A. 
    12 

ARTICLE XIII      AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION 
  13.1    Subject to the provisions of this Article XIII, the Company and the Company s parent, Caterpillar Inc., each may amend the Plan at any time as designated by a written instrument duly adopted on behalf of the Company or Caterpillar Inc., as applicable. However, no amendment or modification shall make it possible to deprive any Participant of a previous Accrued Vested Retirement Benefit. 
  No amendment which becomes effective subsequent to the most recent retirement or other termination of employment of a Participant, shall in any way affect the amount or conditions of payment of any benefit to which such Participant is, or may become, entitled hereunder, except to the extent expressly so provided in such amendment. 
    
  13.2    While the Company and the Company s parent, Caterpillar Inc., intend to continue the Plan indefinitely, nevertheless they assume no contractual obligation as to its continuance and the Company or Caterpillar Inc. each may terminate the Plan. 
  However, if for any unforeseen reason the Plan is terminated, the Participant retains the right to the Accrued Vested Retirement Benefit determined as of the date of termination. 
    
  ARTICLE XIV      GENERAL PROVISIONS 
  14.1    For periods before the effective date of this amended and restated Plan, this Section is intended to clarify the Plan as in effect since it was established.  To the extent that the Company acquires or holds designated assets in connection with its obligation hereunder (including the insurance contract described in Section 11.1), the Plan at all times shall nonetheless be entirely unfunded, and the right of a Participant or his Beneficiary to receive benefits under the Plan shall be an unsecured claim against such assets.  All amounts accrued by Participants hereunder, or designated assets acquired or held by the Company in connection with its obligation hereunder, shall constitute general assets of the Company and may be disposed of by the Company at such time and for such purposes as it may deem appropriate.  The Company will make contributions to an insurance contract pursuant to Section 11.1, but any assets thereof shall be available to pay the claims of the Company s general creditors in the event of the Company s insolvency. 
  14.2    This Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Company and any Employee or other person whether or not in the employ of the Company, nor shall anything herein contained be deemed to give any Employee or other person, whether or not in the employ of the Company, any right to be retained in the employ of the Company, or to interfere with the right of the Company to discharge any Employee at any time and to treat him without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him as Participant of the Plan. 
    13 

14.3    Except as may otherwise be provided by law, no distribution or payment under the Plan to any Participant or Beneficiary shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, whether voluntary or involuntary, and any attempt to so anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge the same shall be void; nor shall any such distribution or payment be in any way liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any person entitled to such distribution or payment, voluntarily or involuntarily. 
  The Company, in its discretion, may hold, or cause to be held or applied, such distribution or payment or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such Participant or Beneficiary, in such manner as the Company shall direct. 
  14.4    If the Company determines that any person entitled to payments under the Plan is an infant, or incompetent by reason of physical or mental disability, it may cause all payments thereafter becoming due to such person to be made to any other person for the benefit of the person entitled to payment, without responsibility to follow applications of amounts so paid. 
  14.5    Subject to Section 14.1, the insurance contract and other designated assets acquired and held by the Company in connection with its obligation hereunder shall be the sole source of benefits under this Plan, and each Employee, Participant, Beneficiary, or any other person who shall claim the right to any payment or benefit under this Plan shall be entitled to look only to the insurance contract and such assets for payment of benefits. The Company shall have no further liability to make or continue from its own funds the payment of any benefit under the Plan. 
  14.6    If it is determined that the benefits under the Plan should be have been paid or should have been paid in a lesser amount, written notice thereof shall be given to the recipient of such benefits (or his legal representative) and he shall repay the amount of overpayment to the Company.  If he fails to repay such amount of overpayment promptly, the Company shall arrange to recover for the Plan the amount of the overpayment by making an appropriate deduction or deductions from any future benefit payment or payments payable to that person (or his survivor or beneficiary) under the Plan or from any other benefit plan of the Company. 
  14.7      Domestic Relations Orders  .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, and to the extent permitted by law, the amounts payable pursuant to the Plan may be assigned or alienated pursuant to a  Domestic Relations Order  (as such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), subject to such uniform rules and procedures as may be adopted by the Plan administrator from time to time. 
           14.8 
    Special Rules for Participants With Same-Sex Domestic Partners  .   
     (A)      Generally  .  Except as specified under this Section 14.8 or as prohibited by applicable law, to the extent the Plan provides for any benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation relating to, or upon, a Participant s  spouse ,  Beneficiary ,  survivor , or  surviving spouse  (or any individual having a similar relationship to the Participant), the Plan administrator shall also apply such benefit, right, feature, restriction, or obligation to a Participant s  same-sex domestic partner  (as defined in (B) below) in a uniform and non- 
    14 

discriminatory manner that is similar to how an opposite-gender spouse would be treated under the Plan. 
    
  (B)      Definition of  Same-Sex Domestic Partner   .  For purposes of this Section 14.8, the term  same-sex domestic partner  means the sole, same-sex person who is in a civil union, domestic partnership, or legal relationship similar thereto, with the Participant as recognized under the laws of the federal government or a state government of the United States of America, including its territories and possessions and the District of Columbia (or, with respect to any other country, legally recognized by the equivalent government(s) thereof).  The Plan shall continue to treat such relationship as a same-sex domestic partnership, regardless of whether the Participant and his same-sex domestic partner remain in the jurisdiction where the relationship was legally entered into.  In the event more than one person meets this definition for a given Participant, then the  same-sex domestic partner  shall be the person who first met the criteria in this definition.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if a Participant has a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law, no person will qualify as the Participant s same-sex domestic partner unless such Participant s marriage to such spouse is first lawfully dissolved.  Except with respect to determining the length of time the same-sex domestic partner has satisfied the definition of same-sex domestic partner under the Plan, a Participant shall be considered to have a same-sex domestic partner only with respect to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, regardless of when such same-sex partnership was created. 
    
  (C)      Domestic Relations Orders  .  Only a spouse recognized for purposes of federal law or another  alternate payee  (as defined under Section 414(p) of the Code) may enforce a domestic relations order against the Plan or a Participant s interests hereunder pursuant to Section 14.7. 
    
  14.9        Determination of  spouse   .  Effective September 16, 2013, or as otherwise required under Internal Revenue Service guidance, the term  spouse  means the person who is the Participant s spouse for federal tax purposes pursuant to applicable Internal Revenue Service guidance. 
    15 

</EX-10.14>

<EX-11>
 8
 cat_exx11x12312013.htm
 EX-11

CAT_EX_11_12.31.2013 

EXHIBIT 11 
    
  CATERPILLAR INC. 
  AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  COMPUTATIONS OF EARNINGS PER SHARE 
    
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 
    
  (Dollars in millions except per share data) 

____________________________________ 
            (1)   
    Profit attributable to common stockholders. 
               (2)    
    Diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards using the treasury stock method. 

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 9
 cat_exx12x12312013.htm
 EX-12

CAT_EX_12_12.31.2013 

EXHIBIT 12 
    
  CATERPILLAR INC. 
  AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
  (Millions of dollars) 
    
  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 

___________________________________________ 
            (1)   
    Consolidated profit before taxes 
               (2)   
    Considered to be representative of interest factor in rental expense 
               (3)   
    Does not include interest on income taxes and other non-third-party indebtedness 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 10
 cat_exx13x12312013.htm
 EX-13

CAT_EX_13_12.31.2013 

EXHIBIT 13 
    
  CATERPILLAR INC. 
  GENERAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
  2013    
    
    A-  1 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

A-  2 

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON 
  INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
    
  The management of Caterpillar Inc. (company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.  Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2013  . In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   (1992). Based on our assessment we concluded that, as of   December 31, 2013  , the company s internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria. 
    
  The effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2013   has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. Their report appears on page A-4. 

/s/Douglas R. Oberhelman 

Douglas R. Oberhelman 

Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer 

/s/Bradley M. Halverson 

Bradley M. Halverson 

Group President 

and Chief Financial Officer 

February 18, 2014 

A-  3 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Caterpillar Inc.: 
    
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position and the related consolidated statements of results of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and of cash flow, including pages A-5 through A-101, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries     at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013     in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing on page A-3.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  Peoria, Illinois 
  February 18, 2014    
    A-  4 

1   
    Profit attributable to common stockholders. 
               2   
    Diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury stock method. 
       
                       See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

A-  5 

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

A-  6 

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

A-  7 

(Continued) 
    A-  8 

1   
    See Note 25 regarding the Cat Japan share redemption. 
               2   
    See Note 16 regarding shares repurchased. 

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

A-  9 

All short-term investments, which consist primarily of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, are considered to be cash equivalents. 
  Non-cash activities:  In 2012,   $1,325 million   of debentures with varying interest rates and maturity dates were exchanged for   $1,722 million    of    3.803%   debentures due in   2042   and   $179 million   of cash.  The   $179 million   of cash paid is included in Other liabilities   net in the operating activities section of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow.  
                       See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

A-  10 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
             1. 
    Operations and summary of significant accounting policies 
       
             A. 
    Nature of operations 
       
  Information in our financial statements and related commentary are presented in the following categories: 
    
  Machinery and Power Systems     Represents the aggregate total of Construction Industries, Resource Industries, Power Systems, and the All Other segment and related corporate items and eliminations. 
    
  Financial Products     Primarily includes the company s Financial Products Segment.  This category includes Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Financial Insurance Services (Insurance Services) and their respective subsidiaries. 
    
  Our products are sold primarily under the brands  Caterpillar,   CAT,  design versions of  CAT  and  Caterpillar,   Electro-Motive,   FG Wilson,   MaK,   MWM,   Perkins,   Progress Rail,   SEM  and  Solar Turbines . 
    
  We conduct operations in our Machinery and Power Systems lines of business under highly competitive conditions, including intense price competition. We place great emphasis on the high quality and performance of our products and our dealers  service support. Although no one competitor is believed to produce all of the same types of machines and engines that we do, there are numerous companies, large and small, which compete with us in the sale of each of our products. 
    
  Our machines are distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network),   48   located in the United States and   130   located outside the United States, serving   182   countries and operating   3,454   places of business, including   1,202   dealer rental outlets.  Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in products. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by our subsidiary Perkins Engines Company Limited, are also sold through a worldwide network of   100   distributors located in   180   countries.  Most of the electric power generation systems manufactured by our subsidiary Caterpillar Northern Ireland Limited, formerly known as F.G. Wilson Engineering Limited, are sold through its worldwide network of   264   distributors located in   145   countries.  Some of the large, medium speed reciprocating engines are also sold under the MaK brand through a worldwide network of   19   distributors located in   130   countries.  Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers  principal business. Turbines, locomotives and certain global mining products are sold directly to end customers through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 
    
  The Financial Products line of business also conducts operations under highly competitive conditions. Financing for users of Caterpillar products is available through a variety of competitive sources, principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. We emphasize prompt and responsive service to meet customer requirements and offer various financing plans designed to increase the opportunity for sales of our products and generate financing income for our company. A significant portion of Financial Products activity is conducted in North America, with additional offices in Asia/Pacific, Europe and Latin America. 
    
             B. 
    Basis of presentation 
       
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries where we have a controlling financial interest. 
    
  We consolidate all variable interest entities (VIEs) where Caterpillar Inc. is the primary beneficiary.  For VIEs, we assess whether we are the primary beneficiary as prescribed by the accounting guidance on the consolidation of VIEs.  The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE.  
    
  Investments in companies that are owned   20 percent   to   50 percent   or are less than   20 percent   owned and for which we have significant influence are accounted for by the equity method.  See Note 9 for further discussion. 
    
  Certain amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with the current-year financial statement presentation. 
    
    A-  11 

We have revised previously reported cash flows from operating and financing activities on Statement 5 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 to correct for the impact of interest payments on certain Cat Financial bank borrowings.  Cash provided by operating activities decreased from the amounts previously reported by   $57 million   and   $53 million   for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Cash provided by financing activities increased by the same amounts for the respective periods.  Management has concluded that the impact was not material to any annual period. 
    
  We have also revised previously reported balances on Statement 3 as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 to correct for customer advances invoiced but not yet paid.  Receivables - trade and other decreased from the amounts previously reported by   $386 million   and   $228 million   as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Customer advances decreased from the amounts previously reported by   $340 million   and   $204 million   as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Other (long-term) liabilities also decreased from the amounts previously reported by   $46 million   and   $24 million   as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Although the revision did not impact Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities on Statement 5, we have revised the impacted operating cash flow line items for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.  Management has concluded that the impact was not material to any period presented.    
    
  Shipping and handling costs are included in Cost of goods sold in Statement 1.  Other operating (income) expenses primarily include Cat Financial s depreciation of equipment leased to others, Insurance Services  underwriting expenses, gains (losses) on disposal of long-lived assets and business divestitures, long-lived asset impairment charges, legal settlements, employee separation charges and benefit plan curtailment, settlement and contractual termination benefits. 
    
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets in Statement 3 include prepaid rent, prepaid insurance, assets held for sale, core to be returned for remanufacturing, restricted cash and other short-term investments, and other prepaid items. 
    
             C. 
    Sales and revenue recognition 
       
  Sales of Machinery and Power Systems are recognized and earned when all the following criteria are satisfied:  (a) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; (b) price is fixed and determinable; (c) collectability is reasonably assured; and (d) delivery has occurred.  Persuasive evidence of an arrangement and a fixed or determinable price exist once we receive an order or contract from a customer or independently owned and operated dealer.  We assess collectability at the time of the sale and if collectability is not reasonably assured, the sale is deferred and not recognized until collectability is probable or payment is received.  Typically, where product is produced and sold in the same country, title and risk of ownership transfer when the product is shipped.  Products that are exported from a country for sale typically pass title and risk of ownership at the border of the destination country. 
    
  Sales of certain turbine machinery units, draglines, large shovels and long wall roof supports are recognized under accounting for construction-type contracts, primarily using the percentage-of-completion method.  Revenue is recognized based upon progress towards completion, which is estimated and continually updated over the course of construction.  We provide for any loss that we expect to incur on these contracts when that loss is probable. 
    
  Our remanufacturing operations are primarily focused on the remanufacture of Cat engines and components and rail related products.  In this business, used engines and related components (core) are inspected, cleaned and remanufactured.  In connection with the sale of most of our remanufactured product, we collect a deposit from the dealer that is repaid if the dealer returns an acceptable core within a specified time period.  Caterpillar owns and has title to the cores when they are returned from dealers.  The rebuilt engine or component (the core plus any new content) is then sold as a remanufactured product to dealers and customers.  Revenue is recognized pursuant to the same criteria as machinery and power systems sales noted above (title to the entire remanufactured product passes to the dealer upon sale).  At the time of sale, the deposit is recognized in Other current liabilities in Statement 3.  In addition, the core to be returned is recognized as an asset in Prepaid expenses and other current assets in Statement 3 at the estimated replacement cost (based on historical experience with useable cores).  Upon receipt of an acceptable core, we repay the deposit and relieve the liability.  The returned core is then included in inventory.  In the event that the deposit is forfeited (i.e. upon failure by the dealer to return an acceptable core in the specified time period), we recognize the core deposit and the cost of the core in Sales and Cost of goods sold, respectively. 
    
  No right of return exists on sales of equipment.  Replacement part returns are estimable and accrued at the time a sale is recognized. 
    
  We provide discounts to dealers through merchandising programs.  We have numerous programs that are designed to promote the sale of our products.  The most common dealer programs provide a discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted end user.  The cost of these discounts is estimated based on historical experience and known changes in merchandising programs and is reported as a reduction to sales when the product sale is recognized. 
    A-  12 

Our standard dealer invoice terms are established by marketing region. Our invoice terms for end-user customer sales are established by the responsible business unit.  When a sale is made to a dealer, the dealer is responsible for payment even if the product is not sold to an end customer.  Dealers and customers must make payment within the established invoice terms to avoid potential interest costs. Interest at or above prevailing market rates may be charged on any past due balance, and generally our practice is to not forgive this interest. In   2013  , terms were extended to not more than   one year   for   $706 million   of receivables, which represent approximately   1 percent   of consolidated sales.  In   2012   and   2011  , terms were extended to not more than   one year   for    $354 million   and   $341 million   of receivables, respectively, which represent less than   1 percent   of consolidated sales. 
    
  We establish a bad debt allowance for Machinery and Power Systems receivables when it becomes probable that the receivable will not be collected.  Our allowance for bad debts is not significant. 
    
  Revenues of Financial Products primarily represent the following Cat Financial revenues: 

Retail finance revenue on finance leases and installment sale contracts is recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate of return on the scheduled outstanding principal balance.  Revenue on retail notes is recognized based on the daily balance of retail receivables outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate. 

Operating lease revenue is recorded on a straight-line basis in the period earned over the life of the contract. 

Cat Financial provides wholesale inventory financing to dealers.  Wholesale finance revenue on installment sale contracts and finance leases related to financing dealer inventory and rental fleets is recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate of return on the scheduled outstanding principal balance.  Revenue on wholesale notes is recognized based on the daily balance of wholesale receivables outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate. 

Loan origination and commitment fees are deferred and amortized to revenue using the interest method over the life of the finance receivables. 
       
  Recognition of income is suspended and the loan or finance lease is placed on non-accrual status when management determines that collection of future income is not probable (generally after   120 days   past due except in locations where local regulatory requirements dictate a different method, or instances in which relevant information is known that warrants placing the loan or finance lease on non-accrual status).  Accrual is resumed, and previously suspended income is recognized, when the receivable becomes contractually current and/or collection doubts are removed.  See Note 6 for more information. 
    
  Sales and revenues are presented net of sales and other related taxes. 
    
             D. 
    Inventories 
       
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is principally determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The value of inventories on the LIFO basis represented about   60 percent   of total inventories at   December 31, 2013   and   2012  , and about   65 percent   at   December 31, 2011  . 
    
  If the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method had been in use, inventories would have been   $2,504 million  ,   $2,750 million   and   $2,422 million   higher than reported at   December 31, 2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
             E. 
    Depreciation and amortization 
       
  Depreciation of plant and equipment is computed principally using accelerated methods. Depreciation on equipment leased to others, primarily for Financial Products, is computed using the straight-line method over the term of the lease. The depreciable basis is the original cost of the equipment less the estimated residual value of the equipment at the end of the lease term. In   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , Cat Financial depreciation on equipment leased to others was   $768 million  ,   $688 million   and   $690 million  , respectively, and was included in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1. In   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , consolidated depreciation expense was   $2,710 million  ,   $2,421 million   and   $2,240 million  , respectively. Amortization of purchased finite-lived intangibles is computed principally using the straight-line method, generally not to exceed a period of   20 years  . 
    
    A-  13 

F. 
    Foreign currency translation 
       
  The functional currency for most of our Machinery and Power Systems consolidated companies is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our Financial Products and affiliates accounted for under the equity method is the respective local currency.  Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of foreign currency amounts to the functional currency are included in Other income (expense) in Statement 1. Gains and losses resulting from translating assets and liabilities from the functional currency to U.S. dollars are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Statement 3. 
    
             G. 
    Derivative financial instruments 
       
  Our earnings and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy) allows for the use of derivative financial instruments to prudently manage foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and commodity price exposures.  Our policy specifies that derivatives are not to be used for speculative purposes.  Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign currency forward, option, and cross currency contracts, interest rate swaps, and commodity forward and option contracts.  All derivatives are recorded at fair value.  See Note 3 for more information. 
    
             H. 
    Income taxes 
       
  The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach taking into account guidance related to uncertain tax positions.  Tax laws require items to be included in tax filings at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements.  A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the current year.  Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid.  Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws.  Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. 
    
             I. 
    Estimates in financial statements 
       
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts. The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased assets, fair values for goodwill impairment tests, impairment of available-for-sale securities, warranty liability, stock-based compensation and reserves for product liability and insurance losses, postretirement benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes. 
    
             J. 
    New accounting guidance 
       
  Presentation of comprehensive income     In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued accounting guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income.  The guidance provides two options for presenting net income and other comprehensive income.  The total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income may be presented in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements.  We elected to present two separate statements.  This guidance was effective January 1, 2012. 
    
  Goodwill impairment testing     In September 2011, the FASB issued accounting guidance on the testing of goodwill for impairment.  The guidance allows entities testing goodwill for impairment the option of performing a qualitative assessment to determine the likelihood of goodwill impairment and whether it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test currently required. This guidance was effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011.  Early adoption was permitted.  We elected to early adopt this guidance for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. 
    
  Disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities     In December 2011, the FASB issued accounting guidance on disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities.  The guidance requires entities to disclose both gross and net information about instruments and transactions that are offset in the statement of financial position, as well as instruments and transactions that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement.  In January 2013, the FASB issued guidance clarifying the scope of the disclosures to apply only to derivatives, including bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities lending and securities borrowing transactions.  This guidance was effective January 1, 2013, with retrospective application required.  The guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements.  See Note 3 for additional information. 
    
    A-  14 

Indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing         In July 2012, the FASB issued accounting guidance on the testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment.  The guidance allows entities to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine the likelihood of an impairment for an indefinite-lived intangible asset and whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment assessment currently required.  This guidance was effective January 1, 2013 and did not have a material impact on our financial statements. 
    
  Reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income     In February 2013, the FASB issued accounting guidance on the reporting of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income.  The guidance requires an entity to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income if the amount is reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period.  For other amounts not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, a cross reference to other disclosures that provide additional detail about the reclassification amounts is required.  This guidance was effective January 1, 2013 and did not have a material impact on our financial statements.  See Note 17 for additional information. 
    
  Joint and several liability arrangements     In February 2013,     the FASB issued accounting guidance on the recognition, measurement and disclosure of obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements.  The guidance requires an entity to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation within the scope of this guidance is fixed at the reporting date, as the sum of the amount the reporting entity agreed to pay on the basis of its arrangement among its co-obligors and any additional amount the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors.  The entity is also required to disclose the nature and amount of the obligation as well as any other information about those obligations.  This guidance is effective January 1, 2014, with retrospective application required.  We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements. 
    
  Parent's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity     In March 2013, the FASB issued accounting guidance on the parent's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity.  The new standard clarifies existing guidance regarding when the CTA should be released into earnings upon various deconsolidation and consolidation transactions.  This guidance is effective January 1, 2014.  We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements. 
    
  Presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists     In July 2013, the FASB issued accounting guidance on the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists.  The guidance requires an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, to be presented as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward in the financial statements if available under the applicable tax jurisdiction.   The guidance is effective January 1, 2014.  We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements. 
    
    A-  15 

K. 
    Goodwill 
       
  For acquisitions accounted for as a business combination, goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of the net assets acquired.  We are required to test goodwill for impairment, at the reporting unit level, annually and when events or circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit may be below its carrying value.  A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (referred to as a component) to which goodwill is assigned when initially recorded. We assign goodwill to reporting units based on our integration plans and the expected synergies resulting from the acquisition.  Because Caterpillar is a highly integrated company, the businesses we acquire are sometimes combined with or integrated into existing reporting units.  When changes occur in the composition of our operating segments or reporting units, goodwill is reassigned to the affected reporting units based on their relative fair values. 
    
  We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred.  We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for interim triggering events on an ongoing basis.  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing a qualitative assessment or a two-step process.  We have an option to make a qualitative assessment of a reporting unit s goodwill for impairment.  If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment and determine the fair value more likely than not exceeds the carrying value, no further evaluation is necessary.  For reporting units where we perform the two-step process, the first step requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows, to the respective carrying value, which includes goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the goodwill is not considered impaired.  If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication that an impairment may exist and the second step is required.  In step two, the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the fair values assigned to its assets and liabilities.  If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment loss.  See Note 10 for further details. 
    
             L. 
    Assets held for sale 
       
  For those businesses where management has committed to a plan to divest, which is typically demonstrated by approval from the Board of Directors or Group President, each business is valued at the lower of its carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. The fair values are estimated using accepted valuation techniques such as a discounted cash flow model, valuations performed by third parties, or indicative bids, when available. A number of significant estimates and assumptions are involved in the application of these techniques, including the forecasting of markets and market share, sales volumes and prices, costs and expenses, and multiple other factors. Management considers historical experience and all available information at the time the estimates are made; however, the fair values that are ultimately realized upon the sale of the businesses to be divested may differ from the estimated fair values reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
             2. 
    Stock-based compensation 
       
  Our stock-based compensation plans primarily provide for the granting of stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock units (RSUs) to Officers and other key employees, as well as non-employee Directors. Stock options permit a holder to buy Caterpillar stock at the stock s price when the option was granted. SARs permit a holder the right to receive the value in shares of the appreciation in Caterpillar stock that occurred from the date the right was granted up to the date of exercise.  A restricted stock unit (RSU) is an agreement to issue shares of Caterpillar stock at the time of vesting. 
    
  Our long-standing practices and policies specify all stock-based compensation awards are approved by the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors on the date of grant.  The stock-based award approval process specifies the number of awards granted, the terms of the award and the grant date.  The same terms and conditions are consistently applied to all employee grants, including Officers. The Committee approves all individual Officer grants.  The number of stock-based compensation awards included in an individual s award is determined based on the methodology approved by the Committee.  In 2007, under the terms of the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (approved by stockholders in June of 2006), the Compensation Committee approved the exercise price methodology to be the closing price of the Company stock on the date of the grant. 
    
  Common stock issued from Treasury stock under the plans totaled   6,258,692   for   2013  ,   7,515,149   for   2012   and   8,710,630   for   2011  . 
    
    A-  16 

Awards generally vest   three years   after the date of grant.  At grant, SARs and option awards have a term life of   ten years  .  Upon separation from service, if the participant is   55 years   of age or older with more than   five years   of service, the participant meets the criteria for a  Long Service Separation .  If the  Long Service Separation  criteria are met, the vested options/SARs will have a life that is the lesser of   ten years   from the original grant date or   five years   from the separation date. 
    
  Our stock-based compensation plans allow for the immediate vesting upon separation for employees who meet the criteria for a  Long Service Separation  and who have fulfilled the requisite service period of   six months  .  Compensation expense is recognized over the period from the grant date to the end date of the requisite service period for employees who meet the immediate vesting upon retirement requirements.  For those employees who become eligible for immediate vesting upon retirement subsequent to the requisite service period and prior to the completion of the vesting period, compensation expense is recognized over the period from grant date to the date eligibility is achieved. 
    
  Accounting guidance on share-based payments requires companies to estimate the fair value of options/SARs on the date of grant using an option-pricing model.  The fair value of the option/SAR grant was estimated using a lattice-based option-pricing model.  The lattice-based option-pricing model considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest rate and historical employee behavior.  Expected volatility was based on historical and current implied volatilities from traded options on our stock. The risk-free rate was based on U.S. Treasury security yields at the time of grant.  The weighted-average dividend yield was based on historical information.  The expected life was determined from the lattice-based model. The lattice-based model incorporated exercise and post vesting forfeiture assumptions based on analysis of historical data. The following table provides the assumptions used in determining the fair value of the stock-based awards for the years ended December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 

The fair value of the RSU grant was determined by reducing the stock price on the day of grant by the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting period.  The estimated dividends are based on Caterpillar s weighted-average dividend yield. 
    
  The amount of stock-based compensation expense capitalized for the years ended December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   did not have a significant impact on our financial statements. 
    
  At December 31,   2013  , there was   $193 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost from stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the plans, which is related to non-vested stock-based awards.  The compensation expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately   1.8 years  . 
    
  Please refer to Tables I and II below for additional information on our stock-based awards. 
     
    A-  17 

2   
    The difference between a stock award s exercise price and the underlying stock s market price at December 31,   2013  , for awards with market price greater than the exercise price. Amounts are in millions of dollars. 

The computations of weighted-average exercise prices and aggregate intrinsic values are not applicable to RSUs since an RSU represents an agreement to issue shares of stock at the time of vesting.  At December 31,   2013  , there were   3,823,328   outstanding RSUs with a weighted average remaining contractual life of   1.3 years  . 

A-  18 

Before tax, stock-based compensation expense for   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was   $231 million  ,   $245 million   and   $193 million  , respectively, with a corresponding income tax benefit of   $73 million  ,   $78 million   and   $61 million  , respectively.  
    
  In accordance with guidance on share-based payments, we classify stock-based compensation within Cost of goods sold, Selling, general and administrative expenses and Research and development expenses corresponding to the same line item as the cash compensation paid to respective employees, officers and non-employee directors. 
    
  We currently use shares in treasury stock to satisfy share award exercises. 
    
  The cash tax benefits realized from stock awards exercised for   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   were   $127 million  ,   $217 million   and   $235 million  , respectively. We use the direct only method and tax law ordering approach to calculate the tax effects of stock-based compensation.  In certain jurisdictions, tax deductions for exercises of stock-based awards did not generate a cash benefit.  A tax benefit of approximately   $39 million   will be recorded in additional paid-in capital when these deductions reduce our future income taxes payable. 
    
             3. 
    Derivative financial instruments and risk management 
       
  Our earnings and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy) allows for the use of derivative financial instruments to prudently manage foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and commodity price exposures.  Our policy specifies that derivatives are not to be used for speculative purposes.  Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity forward and option contracts.  Our derivative activities are subject to the management, direction and control of our senior financial officers.  Risk management practices, including the use of financial derivative instruments, are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors at least annually. 
    
  All derivatives are recognized in Statement 3 at their fair value. On the date the derivative contract is entered into, we designate the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability (fair value hedge), (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flow to be paid (cash flow hedge), or (3) an undesignated instrument. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is qualified, designated and highly effective as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on the hedged recognized asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in current earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is qualified, designated and highly effective as a cash flow hedge are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI), to the extent effective, in Statement 3 until they are reclassified to earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Changes in the fair value of undesignated derivative instruments and the ineffective portion of designated derivative instruments are reported in current earnings. Cash flow from designated derivative financial instruments are classified within the same category as the item being hedged on Statement 5.  Cash flow from undesignated derivative financial instruments are included in the investing category on Statement 5. 
    
  We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.  This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges to specific assets and liabilities in Statement 3 and linking cash flow hedges to specific forecasted transactions or variability of cash flow. 
    
    A-  19 

We also formally assess, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the designated derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flow of hedged items.  When a derivative is determined not to be highly effective as a hedge or the underlying hedged transaction is no longer probable, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively, in accordance with the derecognition criteria for hedge accounting. 
    
           A. 
    Foreign currency exchange rate risk 
       
  Foreign currency exchange rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs incurred in foreign currencies. Movements in foreign currency rates also affect our competitive position as these changes may affect business practices and/or pricing strategies of non-U.S.-based competitors. Additionally, we have balance sheet positions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposure to movements in exchange rates. 
    
  Our Machinery and Power Systems operations purchase, manufacture and sell products in many locations around the world. As we have a diversified revenue and cost base, we manage our future foreign currency cash flow exposure on a net basis. We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to minimize the risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to   five years  . 
    
  We generally designate as cash flow hedges at inception of the contract any Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan, euro, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Singapore dollar, or Swiss franc forward or option contracts that meet the requirements for hedge accounting and the maturity extends beyond the current quarter-end. Designation is performed on a specific exposure basis to support hedge accounting. The remainder of Machinery and Power Systems foreign currency contracts are undesignated, including any hedges designed to protect our competitive exposure. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2013  ,   $9 million   of deferred net gains, net of tax, included in equity (AOCI in Statement 3), are expected to be reclassified to current earnings (Other income (expense) in Statement 1) over the next twelve months when earnings are affected by the hedged transactions.  The actual amount recorded in Other income (expense) will vary based on exchange rates at the time the hedged transactions impact earnings. 
    
  In managing foreign currency risk for our Financial Products operations, our objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions, and future transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Our policy allows the use of foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts to offset the risk of currency mismatch between our receivables and debt, and exchange rate risk associated with future transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Substantially all such foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts are undesignated. 
    
           B. 
    Interest rate risk 
       
  Interest rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the amount of our interest payments and the value of our fixed-rate debt. Our practice is to use interest rate derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate changes and, in some cases, lower the cost of borrowed funds. 
    
  Our Machinery and Power Systems operations generally use fixed rate debt as a source of funding.  Our objective is to minimize the cost of borrowed funds.  Our policy allows us to enter into fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to meet that objective with the intent to designate as fair value hedges at inception of the contract all fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps.  Designation as a hedge of the fair value of our fixed rate debt is performed to support hedge accounting. 
    
  Financial Products operations has a match-funding policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate) of Cat Financial s debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of their receivables portfolio within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In connection with that policy, we use interest rate derivative instruments to modify the debt structure to match assets within the receivables portfolio. This matched funding reduces the volatility of margins between interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, regardless of which direction interest rates move. 
    
  Our policy allows us to use fixed-to-floating, floating-to-fixed, and floating-to-floating interest rate swaps to meet the match-funding objective.  We designate fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps as fair value hedges to protect debt against changes in fair value due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  We designate most floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to protect against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. 
    
    A-  20 

As of   December 31, 2013  ,   $3 million   of deferred net losses, net of tax, included in equity (AOCI in Statement 3), related to Financial Products floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, are expected to be reclassified to current earnings (Interest expense of Financial Products in Statement 1) over the next twelve months.  The actual amount recorded in Interest expense of Financial Products will vary based on interest rates at the time the hedged transactions impact earnings. 
    
  We have, at certain times, liquidated fixed-to-floating and floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps at both Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products.  The gains or losses associated with these swaps at the time of liquidation are amortized into earnings over the original term of the previously designated hedged item. 
    
  In anticipation of issuing debt for the planned acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc., we entered into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate changes.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized a net loss of   $149 million  , included in Other income (expense) in Statement 1.  The contracts were liquidated in conjunction with the debt issuance in May 2011.  These contracts were not designated as hedging instruments, and therefore, did not receive hedge accounting treatment. 
    
           C. 
    Commodity price risk 
       
  Commodity price movements create a degree of risk by affecting the price we must pay for certain raw material. Our policy is to use commodity forward and option contracts to manage the commodity risk and reduce the cost of purchased materials. 
    
  Our Machinery and Power Systems operations purchase base and precious metals embedded in the components we purchase from suppliers.  Our suppliers pass on to us price changes in the commodity portion of the component cost. In addition, we are subject to price changes on energy products such as natural gas and diesel fuel purchased for operational use. 
    
  Our objective is to minimize volatility in the price of these commodities. Our policy allows us to enter into commodity forward and option contracts to lock in the purchase price of a portion of these commodities within a   five  -year horizon. All such commodity forward and option contracts are undesignated. 
    
  The location and fair value of derivative instruments reported in Statement 3 are as follows: 

A-  21 

(Millions of dollars) 
    Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Location 
      
    Asset (Liability) Fair Value 

Years ended December 31, 

2013 
      
    2012 
      
    2011 
      Designated derivatives 

Foreign exchange contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 
    Receivables   trade and other 
      
    $ 
    54 

$ 
    28 

$ 
    54 
      
      Machinery and Power Systems 
    Long-term receivables   trade and other 

19 
      
      Machinery and Power Systems 
    Accrued expenses 
      
    (39 
    ) 
      
    (66 
    ) 
      
    (73 
    ) 
      Machinery and Power Systems 
    Other liabilities 

(10 
    ) 
      Interest rate contracts 

Financial Products 
    Receivables   trade and other 
      
    7 

17 

15 
      
      Financial Products 
    Long-term receivables   trade and other 
      
    115 

209 

233 
      
      Financial Products 
    Accrued expenses 
      
    (6 
    ) 
      
    (8 
    ) 
      
    (6 
    ) 

$ 
    131 

$ 
    180 

$ 
    232 

Undesignated derivatives 

Foreign exchange contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 
    Receivables   trade and other 
      
    $ 
    19 

$ 
    31 

$ 
    27 
      
      Machinery and Power Systems 
    Accrued expenses 
      
    (1 
    ) 
      
    (63 
    ) 
      
    (12 
    ) 
      Machinery and Power Systems 
    Other liabilities 

(85 
    ) 
      Financial Products 
    Receivables   trade and other 
      
    7 

10 

7 
      
      Financial Products 
    Accrued expenses 
      
    (4 
    ) 
      
    (6 
    ) 
      
    (16 
    ) 
      Financial Products 
    Long-term receivables   trade and other 
      
    9 

Interest rate contracts 

Financial Products 
    Receivables   trade and other 

2 

Financial Products 
    Accrued expenses 

(1 
    ) 
      
    (1 
    ) 
      Commodity contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 
    Receivables   trade and other 

1 

2 
      
      Machinery and Power Systems 
    Accrued expenses 

(9 
    ) 

$ 
    30 

$ 
    (26 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (87 
    ) 

The effect of derivatives designated as hedging instruments on Statement 1 is as follows: 

A-  22 

Fair Value Hedges 

Year ended December 31, 2013 
      (Millions of dollars) 
      
    Classification 
      
    Gains (Losses) 
     on Derivatives 
      
    Gains (Losses) 
     on Borrowings 
      Interest rate contracts 

Financial Products 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    (107 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    114 

$ 
    (107 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    114 

Year ended December 31, 2012 

Classification 
      
    Gains (Losses) 
   on Derivatives 
      
    Gains (Losses) 
   on Borrowings 
      Interest rate contracts 

Financial Products 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    (20 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    36 

$ 
    (20 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    36 

Year ended December 31, 2011 

Classification 
      
    Gains (Losses) 
   on Derivatives 
      
    Gains (Losses) 
   on Borrowings 
      Interest rate contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    (1 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    1 
      
      Financial Products 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    39 

(44 
    ) 

$ 
    38 

$ 
    (43 
    ) 

A-  23 

Cash Flow Hedges 

(Millions of dollars) 
      
    Year ended December 31, 2013 

Recognized in Earnings 

Amount of  Gains (Losses) Recognized in AOCI (Effective Portion) 
      
    Classification of 
  Gains (Losses) 
      
    Amount of Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI to Earnings 
      
    Recognized in Earnings (Ineffective Portion) 
      
      Foreign exchange contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    (4 
    ) 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    (57 
    ) 
     2   
    $ 

Interest rate contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 

Other income (expense) 
      
    (3 
    ) 

Financial Products 
      
    (2 
    ) 
      
    Interest expense of Financial Products 
      
    (6 
    ) 
      
    1 
      
     1   

$ 
    (6 
    ) 

$ 
    (66 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    1 

Year ended December 31, 2012 

Recognized in Earnings 

Amount of  Gains (Losses) Recognized in AOCI (Effective Portion) 
      
    Classification of 
  Gains (Losses) 
      
    Amount of  
  Gains (Losses)  
  Reclassified 
  from AOCI to  
  Earnings 
      
    Recognized in Earnings (Ineffective Portion) 
      
      Foreign exchange contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    (78 
    ) 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    (30 
    ) 
     2   
    $ 

Interest rate contracts 

Financial Products 
      
    1 

Interest expense of Financial Products 
      
    4 

(1 
    ) 
     1   

$ 
    (77 
    ) 

$ 
    (26 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (1 
    ) 

Year ended December 31, 2011 

Recognized in Earnings 

Amount of  Gains (Losses) Recognized in AOCI (Effective Portion) 
      
    Classification of 
   Gains (Losses) 
      
    Amount of  
  Gains (Losses)  
  Reclassified 
  from AOCI to  
  Earnings 
      
    Recognized in Earnings (Ineffective Portion) 
      
      Foreign exchange contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    (34 
    ) 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    70 

$ 

Interest rate contracts 

Machinery and Power Systems 

Other income (expense) 
      
    (3 
    ) 

Financial Products 
      
    1 

Interest expense of Financial Products 
      
    (12 
    ) 
      
    (2 
    ) 
     1   

$ 
    (33 
    ) 

$ 
    55 

$ 
    (2 
    ) 

1      
    The ineffective portion recognized in earnings is included in Other income (expense). 
               2      
    Includes   $3 million   and   $7 million   of losses reclassified from AOCI to Other income (expense) in 2013 and 2012, respectively as certain derivatives were dedesignated as the related transactions are no longer probable to occur. 

The effect of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments on Statement 1 is as follows: 
    
    A-  24 

We enter into International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting agreements within Machinery   Power Systems and Financial Products that permit the net settlement of amounts owed under their respective derivative contracts.  Under these master netting agreements, net settlement generally permits the company or the counterparty to determine the net amount payable for contracts due on the same date and in the same currency for similar types of derivative transactions.  The master netting agreements generally also provide for net settlement of all outstanding contracts with a counterparty in the case of an event of default or a termination event.   
    
  Collateral is generally not required of the counterparties or of our company under the master netting agreements.  As of   December 31, 2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , no cash collateral was received or pledged under the master netting agreements.  
    A-  25 

The effect of the net settlement provisions of the master netting agreements on our derivative balances upon an event of default or termination event is as follows: 
                                                                                December 31, 2013 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 

(Millions of dollars) 
      
    Gross Amount of Recognized Assets 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Net Amount of Assets Presented in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
    Cash Collateral Received 
      
    Net Amount of Assets 
      
      Derivatives 

Machinery   Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    73 

$ 

$ 
    73 

$ 
    (32 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    41 

Financial Products 
      
    138 

138 

(9 
    ) 

129 

Total 
      
    $ 
    211 

$ 

$ 
    211 

$ 
    (41 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    170 

December 31, 2013 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 

(Millions of dollars) 
      
    Gross Amount of Recognized Liabilities 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Net Amount of Liabilities Presented in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
    Cash Collateral Pledged 
      
    Net Amount of Liabilities 
      
      Derivatives 

Machinery   Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    (40 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    (40 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    32 

$ 

$ 
    (8 
    ) 
      
      Financial Products 
      
    (10 
    ) 

(10 
    ) 
      
    9 

(1 
    ) 
      
       Total 
      
    $ 
    (50 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    (50 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    41 

$ 

$ 
    (9 
    ) 

December 31, 2012 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 

(Millions of dollars) 
      
    Gross Amount of Recognized Assets 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Net Amount of Assets Presented in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
    Cash Collateral Received 
      
    Net Amount of Assets 
      
      Derivatives 

Machinery   Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    60 

$ 

$ 
    60 

$ 
    (59 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    1 

Financial Products 
      
    238 

238 

(12 
    ) 

226 

Total 
      
    $ 
    298 

$ 

$ 
    298 

$ 
    (71 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    227 

December 31, 2012 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 

(Millions of dollars) 
      
    Gross Amount of Recognized Liabilities 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Net Amount of Liabilities Presented in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
    Cash Collateral Pledged 
      
    Net Amount of Liabilities 
      
      Derivatives 

Machinery   Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    (129 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    (129 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    59 

$ 

$ 
    (70 
    ) 
      
      Financial Products 
      
    (15 
    ) 

(15 
    ) 
      
    12 

(3 
    ) 
      
       Total 
      
    $ 
    (144 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    (144 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    71 

$ 

$ 
    (73 
    ) 

A-  26 

December 31, 2011 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 

(Millions of dollars) 
      
    Gross Amount of Recognized Liabilities 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Net Amount of Liabilities Presented in the Statement of Financial Position 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
    Cash Collateral Pledged 
      
    Net Amount of Liabilities 
      
      Derivatives 

Machinery   Power Systems 
      
    $ 
    (189 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    (189 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    102 

$ 

$ 
    (87 
    ) 
      
      Financial Products 
      
    (23 
    ) 

(23 
    ) 
      
    11 

(12 
    ) 
      
       Total 
      
    $ 
    (212 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 
    (212 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    113 

$ 

$ 
    (99 
    ) 

A-  27 

4. 
    Other income (expense) 

1   
    Includes gains (losses) from foreign exchange derivative contracts.  See Note 3 for further details. 
               2   
    Miscellaneous income (loss) in 2011 includes forward starting swap costs of   $149 million   (see Note 3) and bridge financing costs of   $54 million   (see Note 24), both related to the acquisition of Bucyrus.  

5. 
    Income taxes 

Profit before taxes, as shown above, is based on the location of the entity to which such earnings are attributable. Where an entity s earnings are subject to taxation, however, may not correlate solely to where an entity is located.  Thus, the income tax provision shown below as U.S. or non-U.S. may not correspond to the earnings shown above. 

We paid net income tax and related interest of   $1,544 million  ,     $2,396 million   and   $1,369 million   in   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
    A-  28 

Reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to effective rate: 

The provision for income taxes for 2013 included a   $87 million   benefit primarily related to the research and development tax credit that was retroactively extended in 2013 for 2012 and a benefit of   $55 million   resulting from true-up of estimated amounts used in the tax provision to the 2012 U.S. tax return as filed in September 2013. 
    
  The provision for income taxes for 2012 included a   $300 million     b  enefit for adjusting prior year taxes and interest primarily to reflect a settlement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for tax years 2000 to 2006.  The largest drivers of the settlement benefit were a   $188 million     be  nefit to remeasure and recognize previously unrecognized tax benefits and a   $96 million   benefit to adjust related interest and penalties, net of tax.  This benefit was offset by a negative impact from nondeductible goodwill of   $203 million     related to the ERA Mining Machinery Limited (Siwei) goodwill impairment and     $115 million     related to the divestiture of portio  ns of the Bucyrus distribution business.  See Note 10 and Note 26 for more information. 
    
  The provision for income taxes for 2011 included a     $113 million   benefit due to repatriation of non-U.S. earnings with available foreign tax credits in excess of the U.S. tax liability on the dividends and a   $24 million   benefit for the release of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets of certain non-U.S. entities due to tax planning actions implemented in   2011.    These benefits were offset by a charge of     $41 million   due to an increase in prior year unrecognized tax benefits and a negative impact of   $33 million     f  rom nondeductible goodwill primarily related to the divestiture of a portion of the Bucyrus distribution business. 
    
  We have recorded income tax expense at U.S. tax rates on all profits, except for undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries of approximately   $17 billion   which are considered indefinitely reinvested.  Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to indefinitely reinvested profits is not feasible.  If management intentions or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. 
    
  Accounting for income taxes under U.S. GAAP requires that individual tax-paying entities of the company offset all current deferred tax liabilities and assets within each particular tax jurisdiction and present them as a single amount in the Consolidated Financial Position. A similar procedure is followed for all noncurrent deferred tax liabilities and assets. Amounts in different tax jurisdictions cannot be offset against each other. The amount of deferred income taxes at December 31, included on the following lines in Statement 3, are as follows: 
    
    A-  29 

At   December 31, 2013  , approximately   $707 million   of U.S. state tax net operating loss  es (NOLs) and     $169 million     of U.S. state tax credit carryforwards were available. The state NOLs primarily expire between 2014 and 2033.      The state tax credit carryforwards primarily expire over the nex  t     five     to     fifteen   years.  We established a valuation allowance of   $188 million   for those state NOLs and credit carryforwards that are more likely than not to expire prior to utilization. 
    
  At   December 31, 2013  , amounts and expiration dates of net operating loss carryforwards in various non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions were: 

A-  30 

At   December 31, 2013   a valuation allowance of     $557 million   has been recorded at certain non-U.S. entities that have not yet demonstrated consistent and/or sustainable profitability to support the realization of net deferred tax assets. 
    
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting only the timing of tax benefits, follows. 

1   
    Foreign currency translation amounts are included within each line as applicable. 
               2   
    Includes cash payment or other reduction of assets to settle liability. 

We classify interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of the provision for income taxes. We recognized a net provision (benefit) for interest and penalties of     $7 million  ,   $(114) million   and   $39 million   during the years ended December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively.  The 2012 amount includes a benefit from adjustments for the 2000 through 2006 settlement discussed previously.  The total amount of interest and penalties accrued was   $59 million  ,   $134 million   and   $240 million   as of   December 31, 2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
  It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next 12 months.  The IRS is currently examining our U.S. tax returns for 2007 to 2009 including the impact of a loss carryback to 2005.  While we have not yet received a Revenue Agent's Report generally issued at the end of the field examination process, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS relating to U.S. taxation of certain non-U.S. operations and foreign tax credits. We disagree with these proposed adjustments, and to the extent that adjustments are assessed upon completion of the field examination relating to these matters, we would vigorously contest the adjustments in appeals.  The completion of the field examination for this audit is expected in 2014.  In our major non-U.S. jurisdictions, tax years are typically subject to examination for   three   to   eight   years.  In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations.  Due to the uncertainty related to the timing and potential outcome of these matters, we can not estimate the range of reasonably possible change in unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months. 
    
             6. 
    Cat Financial Financing Activities 
       
             A. 
    Wholesale inventory receivables 
       
  Wholesale inventory receivables are receivables of Cat Financial that arise when Cat Financial provides financing for a dealer s purchase of inventory. These receivables are included in Receivables trade and other and Long-term receivables trade and other in Statement 3 and were   $1,945 million  ,   $2,152 million  , and   $1,990 million   at December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
    A-  31 

Please refer to Note 18 and Table III for fair value information. 
    
             B. 
    Finance receivables 
       
  Finance receivables are receivables of Cat Financial, which generally can be repaid or refinanced without penalty prior to contractual maturity. Total finance receivables reported in Statement 3 are net of an allowance for credit losses. 
    
  Cat Financial provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met. Credit decisions are based on, among other things, the customer s credit history, financial strength and intended use of equipment. Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in retail financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. 

Please refer to Note 18 and Table III for fair value information. 
    
    A-  32 

C. 
     Credit quality of financing receivables and allowance for credit losses 
       
  Cat Financial applies a systematic methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses for finance receivables.  Based upon Cat Financial s analysis of credit losses and risk factors, portfolio segments are as follows: 

Customer - Finance receivables with retail customers. 

Dealer - Finance receivables with Caterpillar dealers. 
       
  Cat Financial further evaluates portfolio segments by the class of finance receivables, which is defined as a level of information (below a portfolio segment) in which the finance receivables have the same initial measurement attribute and a similar method for assessing and monitoring credit risk.  Typically, Cat Financial s finance receivables within a geographic area have similar credit risk profiles and methods for assessing and monitoring credit risk.  Cat Financial s classes, which align with management reporting for credit losses, are as follows: 

North America - Finance receivables originated in the United States or Canada. 

Europe - Finance receivables originated in Europe, Africa, Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States. 

Asia Pacific - Finance receivables originated in Australia, New Zealand, China, Japan, South Korea and Southeast Asia. 

Mining - Finance receivables related to large mining customers worldwide. 

Latin America - Finance receivables originated in Central and South American countries and Mexico. 

Caterpillar Power Finance - Finance receivables related to marine vessels with Caterpillar engines worldwide and Caterpillar electrical power generation, gas compression and co-generation systems and non-Caterpillar equipment that is powered by these systems worldwide. 
       
  Impaired loans and finance leases 
    
  For all classes, a loan or finance lease is considered impaired, based on current information and events, if it is probable that Cat Financial will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan or finance lease.  Loans and finance leases reviewed for impairment include loans and finance leases that are past due, non-performing or in bankruptcy. Recognition of income is suspended and the loan or finance lease is placed on non-accrual status when management determines that collection of future income is not probable (generally after   120 days   past due except in locations where local regulatory requirements dictate a different method, or in instances in which relevant information is known that warrants placing the loan or finance lease on non-accrual status).  Accrual is resumed, and previously suspended income is recognized, when the loan or finance lease becomes contractually current and/or collection doubts are removed.  Cash receipts on impaired loans or finance leases are recorded against the receivable and then to any unrecognized income. 
    
  During 2013, Cat Financial changed the classification of certain loans and finance leases previously reported as impaired.  While these loans and finance leases had been incorrectly reported as impaired, the related allowance for these loans and finance leases was appropriately measured; therefore, this change had no impact on the allowance for credit losses.  The impact of incorrectly reporting these loans and finance leases as impaired was not considered material to previously issued financial statements; however, prior period impaired loan and finance lease balances have been revised throughout Notes 6 and 18. 
    
  At December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , there were   no   impaired loans or finance leases for the Dealer portfolio segment.  The average recorded investment for impaired loans and finance leases within the Dealer portfolio segment was   zero   during   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  .   
    
  Individually impaired loans and finance leases for the Customer portfolio segment were as follows: 
    
    A-  33 

A-  34 

A-  35 

A-  36 

Non-accrual and past due loans and finance leases 
    
  For all classes, Cat Financial considers a loan or finance lease past due if any portion of a contractual payment is due and unpaid for more than   30 days  .  Recognition of income is suspended and the loan or finance lease is placed on non-accrual status when management determines that collection of future income is not probable (generally after   120 days   past due except in locations where local regulatory requirements dictate a different method, or in instances in which relevant information is known that warrants placing the loan or finance lease on non-accrual status).  Accrual is resumed, and previously suspended income is recognized, when the loan or finance lease becomes contractually current and/or collection doubts are removed. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , there were   no   loans or finance leases on non-accrual status for the Dealer portfolio segment. 
    
  The investment in customer loans and finance leases on non-accrual status was as follows: 
    A-  37 

Aging related to loans and finance leases was as follows: 

A-  38 

Allowance for credit loss activity 
    
  The allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2013 was   $375 million   compared with   $423 million   as of December 31, 2012.  The overall decrease of   $48 million   in the allowance for credit losses during the year reflects a   $55 million   decrease associated with the lower allowance rate, partially offset by a   $7 million   increase due to an increase in Cat Financial's net finance receivables portfolio.  The lower allowance rate reflects write-offs taken in 2013, primarily related to Cat Financial's European marine portfolio that had been previously provided for in the allowance for credit losses, favorable changes in Cat Financial's estimated probabilities of default (due to improved financial health of Cat Financial's customers), continued refinements of estimated loss emergence periods and general improvement in the economic conditions of the industries Cat Financial serves.   
    
    A-  39 

The allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2012 was   $423 million   compared with   $366 million   as of December 31, 2011. The overall increase of   $57 million   in allowance for credit losses during the year reflects a   $51 million   increase in allowance due to an increase in Cat Financial s net finance receivables portfolio and a   $6 million   increase associated with the higher allowance rate. 
    
  An analysis of the allowance for credit losses during   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was as follows: 

A-  40 

Credit quality of finance receivables 
    
  The credit quality of finance receivables is reviewed on a monthly basis.  Credit quality indicators include performing and non-performing.  Non-performing is defined as finance receivables currently over   120 days   past due and/or on non-accrual status or in bankruptcy.  Finance receivables not meeting the criteria listed above are considered performing.  Non-performing receivables have the highest probability for credit loss.  The allowance for credit losses attributable to non-performing receivables is based on the most probable source of repayment, which is normally the liquidation of collateral.  In determining collateral value, Cat Financial estimates the current fair market value of the collateral less selling costs.  In addition, Cat Financial considers credit enhancements such as additional collateral and contractual third-party guarantees in determining the allowance for credit losses attributable to non-performing receivables. 
    
  The recorded investment in performing and non-performing finance receivables was as follows: 
    A-  41 

A-  42 

A-  43 

Troubled Debt Restructurings 
    
  A restructuring of a loan or finance lease receivable constitutes a troubled debt restructuring (TDR) when the lender grants a concession it would not otherwise consider to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.  Concessions granted may include extended contract maturities, inclusion of interest only periods, below market interest rates, and extended skip payment periods. 
    
  TDRs are reviewed along with other receivables as part of management s ongoing evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses.  The allowance for credit losses attributable to TDRs is based on the most probable source of repayment, which is normally the liquidation of collateral.  In determining collateral value, Cat Financial estimates the current fair market value of the collateral less selling costs.  In addition, Cat Financial factors in credit enhancements such as additional collateral and contractual third-party guarantees in determining the allowance for credit losses attributable to TDRs. 
    
  There were   no   loans or finance lease receivables modified as TDRs during the years ended   December 31, 2013  ,   2012   and   2011   for the Dealer portfolio segment. 
    
  Loan and finance lease receivables in the Customer portfolio segment modified as TDRs during the years ended   December 31, 2013  ,    2012  , and   2011   were as follows: 
    
    A-  44 

1   
    During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011,   $25 million  ,   $24 million   and   $15 million  , respectively, of additional funds were subsequently loaned to a borrower whose terms had been modified in a TDR.  The   $25 million  ,   $24 million   and   $15 million   of additional funds are not reflected in the table above as no incremental modifications have been made with the borrower during the periods presented.  At December 31, 2013, remaining commitments to lend additional funds to a borrower whose terms have been modified in a TDR were   $6 million  . 
               2   
    Modifications include extended contract maturities, inclusion of interest only periods, below market interest rates, and extended skip payment periods. 

TDRs in the Customer portfolio segment with a payment default during the years ended   December 31, 2013  ,   2012  , and   2011   which had been modified within twelve months prior to the default date, were as follows: 
    
    A-  45 

D. 
    Securitized Retail Installment Sale Contracts and Finance Leases 
       
  Cat Financial has periodically transferred certain finance receivables relating to their retail installment sale contracts and finance leases to special-purpose entities (SPEs) as part of their asset-backed securitization program.  These SPEs were concluded to be VIEs.  Cat Financial determined that they were the primary beneficiary based on their power to direct activities through their role as servicer and their obligation to absorb losses and right to receive benefits and therefore consolidated these securitization SPEs. 
    
  On April 25, 2011, Cat Financial exercised a clean-up call on their only outstanding asset-backed securitization transaction.  As a result, Cat Financial had   no   assets or liabilities related to their securitization program as of  December 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011. 
    
             7. 
    Inventories 
       
  Inventories (principally using the LIFO method) are comprised of the following: 

We had long-term material purchase obligations of approximately   $1,568 million   at December 31, 2013. 
    
  During 2013 inventory quantities were reduced.  This reduction resulted in a liquidation of LIFO inventory layers carried at lower costs prevailing in prior years as compared with current costs.  In 2013, the effect of this reduction of inventory decreased Cost of goods sold by approximately   $115 million   and increased Profit by approximately   $81 million   or   $0.12   per share. 

A-  46 

8. 
    Property, plant and equipment 

We had commitments for the purchase or construction of capital assets of approximately   $269 million   at   December 31, 2013  . 

1   
    Included in Property, plant and equipment table above. 
               2   
    Consists primarily of machinery and equipment. 

At   December 31, 2013  , scheduled minimum rental payments on assets recorded under capital leases were: 

At   December 31, 2013  , scheduled minimum rental payments to be received for equipment leased to others were: 

A-  47 

9. 
    Investments in unconsolidated affiliated companies 
       
  Combined financial information of the unconsolidated affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method (generally on a lag of 3 months or less) was as follows:  

The increase in the 2012 financial position and equity investments amounts from 2011 relate to the sale of a majority interest in Caterpillar's third party logistics business, which occurred on July 31, 2012.  Under the terms of the agreement, Caterpillar retained a   35 percent   equity interest.  The increase is also related to the acquisition of an equity interest in Black Horse LLC, which occurred on December 5, 2012. 

A-  48 

10.  Intangible assets and goodwill 
    
           A. 
    Intangible assets 
       
  Intangible assets are comprised of the following: 

During 2013, we acquired finite-lived intangible assets aggregating   $70 million   due to the purchase of Johan Walter Berg AB (Berg).  See Note 24 for details on this acquisition. 
    
  Gross customer relationship intangibles of   $168 million   and related accumulated amortization of   $25 million   were reclassified from Intangible assets to assets held for sale and/or divested during 2013, and are not included in the December 31, 2013 balances in the table above.  These transactions were related to the divestiture of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business.  See Note 26 for additional information on divestitures and assets held for sale. 
    
  During 2012, we acquired finite-lived intangible assets aggregating   $120 million   due to purchases of Siwei (  $112 million  ) and Caterpillar Tohoku Ltd. (Cat Tohoku) (  $8 million  ).  See Note 24 for details on these acquisitions. 
    
  Gross customer relationship intangibles of   $207 million   and related accumulated amortization of   $93 million   were reclassified from Intangible assets to held for sale and/or divested during 2012, and are not included in the December 31, 2012 balances in the table above.   These transactions primarily related to the divestiture of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business and our third party logistics business.  See Note 26 for additional information on divestitures and assets held for sale.    
    A-  49 

Gross customer relationship intangibles of   $51 million   and related accumulated amortization of   $29 million   from the All Other segment were impaired during 2012.  Fair value of the intangibles was determined using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows.  The impairment of   $22 million   was recognized in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1 and included in the All Other segment. 
    
  During 2011, we acquired finite-lived intangible assets aggregating   $4,167 million   primarily due to purchases of Bucyrus International, Inc. (Bucyrus) (  $3,901 million  ), Pyroban Group Ltd. (Pyroban) (  $41 million  ) and MWM Holding GmbH (MWM) (  $221 million  ).  See Note 24 for details on these acquisitions. 
    
  As described in Note 26, we sold customer relationship intangibles of   $63 million   associated with the divestiture of a portion of the Bucyrus distribution business in December 2011.  Additionally,   $186 million   of customer relationship intangibles were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2011, and are not included in the table above. 
    
  Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.  Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually. 
    
  Amortization expense related to intangible assets was   $371 million  ,   $387 million   and   $233 million   for   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2013  , amortization expense related to intangible assets is expected to be: 

B. 
    Goodwill 
       
  During 2013, we acquired net assets with related goodwill of   $106 million   due to the purchase of Berg.  See Note 24 for details on this acquisition. 
    
  As discussed in Note 24, we recorded goodwill of   $625 million   related to our May 2012 acquisition of Siwei.  In November 2012, Caterpillar became aware of inventory accounting discrepancies at Siwei which led to an internal investigation.  Caterpillar's investigation determined that Siwei had engaged in accounting misconduct prior to Caterpillar's acquisition of Siwei in mid-2012.  The accounting misconduct included inappropriate accounting practices involving improper cost allocation that resulted in overstated profit and improper revenue recognition practices involving early and, at times unsupported, revenue recognition.   
    
  Because of the accounting misconduct identified in the fourth quarter of 2012, Siwei's goodwill was tested for impairment as of November 30, 2012.  We determined the carrying value of Siwei, which is a separate reporting unit, exceeded its fair value at the measurement date, requiring step two in the impairment test process.  The fair value of the Siwei reporting unit was determined primarily using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows. We assigned the fair value to the reporting unit's assets and liabilities and determined the implied fair value of goodwill was substantially below the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill.  Accordingly, we recognized a   $580 million   goodwill impairment charge, which resulted in goodwill of   $45 million   remaining for Siwei as of December 31, 2012.   The goodwill impairment was a result of changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value resulting from the accounting misconduct that occurred before the acquisition. There was no tax benefit associated with this impairment charge.  The Siwei goodwill impairment charge is reported in the Resource Industries segment. 
    
  Additionally, during 2012, we recorded goodwill of   $22 million   related to the acquisition of Cat Tohoku and finalized the allocation of the Bucyrus and MWM purchase prices to identifiable assets and liabilities, adjusting goodwill from our December 31, 2011 preliminary allocation for Bucyrus and MWM by a reduction of   $28 million   and an increase of   $9 million  , respectively.  See Note 24 for details on these acquisitions. 
    
  During 2011, we acquired net assets with related goodwill aggregating   $5,026 million   primarily due to purchases of Bucyrus (  $4,616 million  ), Pyroban (  $23 million  ) and MWM (  $387 million  ).  See Note 24 for details on these acquisitions. 
    A-  50 

Goodwill of   $65 million  ,   $181 million   and   $409 million   was reclassified to held for sale and/or divested during   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively, and is not included in the December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   respective balances in the table below.  The reclassified/divested amount in 2013 was related to the divestiture of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business and the sale of certain Power Systems assets that were accounted for as a business.  The reclassified/divested amounts in 2012 and 2011 primarily related to the divestiture of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business.  See Note 26 for additional information on divestitures and assets held for sale. 
    
  The changes in carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   were as follows: 
    
    A-  51 

1   
    See Note 24 for additional information. 
               2   
    See Note 26 for additional information. 
               3   
    Other adjustments are comprised primarily of foreign currency translation. 
               4   
    Includes All Other operating segment (See Note 23). 

A-  52 

11. 
    Available-for-sale securities 
       
  We have investments in certain debt and equity securities, primarily at Insurance Services, that have been classified as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices.  These investments are primarily included in Other assets in Statement 3.  Unrealized gains and losses arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale securities are included, net of applicable deferred income taxes, in equity (Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Statement 3).  Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are generally determined using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method for debt instruments and the specific identification method for equity securities.  Realized gains and losses are included in Other income (expense) in Statement 1. 

During   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , charges for other-than-temporary declines in the market values of securities were   $1 million  ,   $2 million   and   $5 million  , respectively.  These charges were accounted for as realized losses and were included in Other income (expense) in Statement 1.  The cost basis of the impacted securities was adjusted to reflect these charges. 

A-  53 

1   
    Indicates length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position. 

1   
    Indicates length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position. 

A-  54 

1   
    Indicates length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position. 

Corporate Bonds.    The unrealized losses on our investments in corporate bonds and asset-backed securities relate to changes in interest rates and credit-related yield spreads since time of purchase.  We do not intend to sell the investments and it is not likely that we will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis.  We do not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of   December 31, 2013  . 
    
  Mortgage-Backed Debt Securities.    The unrealized losses on our investments in mortgage-backed securities are a function of higher delinquencies, default rates and underlying market yields since time of purchase.  We do not intend to sell the investments and it is not likely that we will be required to sell these investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis.  We do not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of   December 31, 2013  . 
    
  The cost basis and fair value of the available-for-sale debt securities at   December 31, 2013  , by contractual maturity, is shown below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay and creditors may have the right to call obligations. 

A-  55 

12. 
    Postemployment benefit plans 
       
  We provide defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and/or other postretirement benefit plans (retirement health care and life insurance) to employees in many of our locations throughout the world.  Our defined benefit pension plans provide a benefit based on years of service and/or the employee s average earnings near retirement.  Our defined contribution plans allow employees to contribute a portion of their salary to help save for retirement, and in certain cases, we provide a matching contribution.  The benefit obligation related to our non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are for employees located primarily in Europe, Japan and Brazil.  For other postretirement benefits, substantially all of our benefit obligation is for employees located in the United States.  
     
  In February 2012, we announced the closure of the Electro-Motive Diesel facility located in London, Ontario.  As a result of the closure, we recognized a   $37 million   other postretirement benefits curtailment gain.  This excludes a   $21 million   loss of a third-party receivable for other postretirement benefits that was eliminated due to the closure.  In addition, a   $10 million   contractual termination benefit expense was recognized related to statutory pension benefits required to be paid to certain affected employees.  As a result, a net gain of   $6 million   related to the facility closure was recognized in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1.   
    
  In August 2012, we announced changes to our U.S. hourly pension plan, which impacted certain hourly employees.  For the impacted employees, pension benefit accruals were frozen on January 1, 2013 or will freeze January 1, 2016, at which time employees will become eligible for various provisions of company sponsored 401(k) plans including a matching contribution and an annual employer contribution.  The plan changes resulted in a curtailment and required a remeasurement as of August 31, 2012.  The curtailment and the remeasurement resulted in a net increase in our Liability for postemployment benefits of   $243 million   and a net loss of   $153 million  , net of tax, recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  The increase in the liability was primarily due to a decline in the discount rate.  Also, the curtailment resulted in expense of   $7 million   which was recognized in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1. 
    
    A-  56 

A. 
    Benefit obligations 

1   
    In 2013, charge to recognize a previously unrecorded liability related to a subsidiary's pension plans and an adjustment to other postretirement benefits related to certain other benefits.  See Note 26 regarding the divestiture of the third party logistics business in 2012 and Note 24 for the acquisition of Bucyrus International in 2011.   
               2   
    End of year rates are used to determine net periodic cost for the subsequent year.  See Note 12E. 

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans.  A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: 
    
                               (Millions of dollars) 
      
    One-percentage- 
  point increase 
      
    One-percentage- 
  point decrease 
      Effect on 2013 service and interest cost components of other postretirement benefit cost 
      
    $ 
    26 

$ 
    (22 
    ) 
      Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
      
    $ 
    274 

$ 
    (230 
    ) 

A-  57 

B. 
    Plan assets 

Our current U.S. pension target asset allocations are   60 percent   equities and   40 percent   fixed income.  Our strategy includes further aligning our investments to our liabilities, while reducing risk in our portfolio.  Target allocation policies will be revisited periodically to ensure they reflect the overall objectives of the fund.   
    
  In general, our non-U.S. pension target asset allocations reflect our investment strategy of maximizing the long-term rate of return on plan assets and the resulting funded status, within an appropriate level of risk.  The weighted-average target allocations for the non-U.S. pension plans are   59 percent   equities,   32 percent   fixed income,   7 percent   real estate and   2 percent   other.  The target allocations for each plan vary based upon local statutory requirements, demographics of plan participants and funded status.  Plan assets are primarily invested in non-U.S. securities. 
    
  Our target allocations for the other postretirement benefit plans are   70 percent   equities and   30 percent   fixed income.   
    
  The U.S. plans are rebalanced to plus or minus   5   percentage points of the target asset allocation ranges on a monthly basis.  The frequency of rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies depending on the plan.  As a result of our diversification strategies, there are no significant concentrations of risk within the portfolio of investments except for the holdings in Caterpillar stock as discussed below. 
    
  The use of certain derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and necessary for achieving overall investment policy objectives.  The plans do not engage in derivative contracts for speculative purposes. 
    
  The accounting guidance on fair value measurements specifies a fair value hierarchy based upon the observability of inputs used in valuation techniques (Level 1, 2 and 3).  See Note 18 for a discussion of the fair value hierarchy. 
    
  Fair values are determined as follows: 

Equity securities are primarily based on valuations for identical instruments in active markets. 
                
    Fixed income securities are primarily based upon models that take into consideration such market-based factors as recent sales, risk-free yield curves and prices of similarly rated bonds. 
                
    Real estate is stated at the fund s net asset value or at appraised value. 
                
    Cash, short-term instruments and other are based on the carrying amount, which approximates fair value, or the fund s net asset value. 
       
  The fair value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by category is summarized below: 
    
    A-  58 

A-  59 

A-  60 

1   
    Includes funds that invest in both U.S. and non-U.S. securities. 
               2   
    Includes funds that invest in multiple asset classes, hedge funds and other. 

A-  61 

A-  62 

Below are roll-forwards of assets measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs for the years ended   December 31, 2013  ,   2012   and   2011  .  These instruments were valued using pricing models that, in management s judgment, reflect the assumptions a market participant would use. 
    
    A-  63 

Equity securities within plan assets include Caterpillar Inc. common stock in the amounts of: 

A-  64 

C. 
    Funded status 
       
  The funded status of the plans, reconciled to the amount reported on Statement 3, is as follows: 

The estimated amounts that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at   December 31, 2013   into net periodic benefit cost (pre-tax) in 2014 are as follows: 

The following amounts relate to our pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: 

The following amounts relate to our pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: 
    
    A-  65 

The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation exceeds plan assets for all of our other postretirement benefit plans for all years presented. 
    
             D. 
    Expected cash flow 
       
  Information about the expected cash flow for the pension and other postretirement benefit plans is as follows: 

The above table reflects the total employer contributions and benefits expected to be paid from the plan or from company assets and does not include the participants  share of the cost.  The expected benefit payments for our other postretirement benefits include payments for prescription drug benefits.  Medicare Part D subsidy amounts expected to be received by the company which will offset other postretirement benefit payments are as follows: 

A-  66 

E. 
    Net periodic cost 

1   
    Expected return on plan assets developed using calculated market-related value of plan assets which recognizes differences in expected and actual returns over a three-year period. 
               2   
    Charge to recognize a previously unrecorded liability related to a subsidiary's pension plans and an adjustment to other postretirement benefits related to certain other benefits. 
               3   
    Curtailments, settlements and termination benefits were recognized in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1. 
               4   
    Prior service cost (credit)   for both pension and other postretirement benefits are generally amortized using the straight-line method over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits from the plan.  For pension plans in which all or almost all of the plan's participants are inactive and other postretirement benefit plans in which all or almost all of the plan's participants are fully eligible for benefits under the plan, prior service cost (credit) are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining life expectancy of those participants. 
               5   
    Net actuarial loss (gain) for pension and other postretirement benefit plans are generally amortized using the straight-line method over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits from the plan.  For plans in which all or almost all of the plan s participants are inactive, net actuarial loss (gain) are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants.   
               6   
    The weighted-average rates for   2014   are   7.8 percent   and   6.9 percent   for U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, respectively. 

A-  67 

The assumed discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to today s dollars.  The U.S. discount rate is based on a benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our benefit obligations could effectively be settled as of our measurement date, December 31.  The benefit cash flow-matching approach involves analyzing Caterpillar s projected cash flows against a high quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate Aa bonds available on the measurement date.  The very highest and lowest yielding bonds (top and bottom   10 percent  ) are excluded from the analysis.  A similar process is used to determine the assumed discount rate for our most significant non-U.S. plans.  This rate is sensitive to changes in interest rates.  A decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation and future expense. 
    
  Our U.S. expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities weighted by the allocation of our pension assets.  Based on historical performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management of the plan assets.  To arrive at our expected long-term return, the amount added for active management was   1 percent   for   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  .  A similar process is used to determine this rate for our non-U.S. plans. 
    
  The assumed health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are assumed to increase.  We assumed a weighted-average increase of   7.1 percent   in our calculation of 2013 benefit expense.  We expect a weighted-average increase of   6.6 percent   during 2014.  The 2013 and 2014 rates are assumed to decrease gradually to the ultimate health care trend rate of   5 percent   in   2019  .  This rate represents   3 percent   general inflation plus   2 percent   additional health care inflation. 
    
             F. 
    Other postemployment benefit plans 
       
  We offer long-term disability benefits, continued health care for disabled employees, survivor income benefit insurance and supplemental unemployment benefits to substantially all U.S. employees. 
    
             G. 
    Defined contribution plans 
       
  We have both U.S. and non-U.S. employee defined contribution plans to help employees save for retirement.  Our primary U.S. 401(k) plan allows eligible employees to contribute a portion of their cash compensation to the plan on a tax-deferred basis.  Employees with frozen defined benefit pension accruals are eligible for matching contributions equal to   100 percent   of employee contributions to the plan up to   6 percent   of cash compensation and an annual employer contribution that ranges from   3   to   5 percent   of cash compensation (depending on years of service and age).  Employees that are still accruing benefits under a defined benefit pension plan are eligible for matching contributions equal to   50 percent   of employee contributions up to   6 percent   of cash compensation.  Various other U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans allow eligible employees to contribute a portion of their salary to the plans, and in some cases, we provide a matching contribution to the funds. 
    
  Total company costs related to U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans were as follows: 

A-  68 

H. 
    Summary of long-term liability: 

13. 
    Short-term borrowings 

The weighted-average interest rates on short-term borrowings outstanding were: 

The notes payable to certain former shareholders of Siwei did not bear interest and were settled during the second quarter of 2013.  Please refer to Note 26 for more information.  Please refer to Note 18 and Table III for fair value information on short-term borrowings. 
    
    A-  69 

All outstanding notes and debentures are unsecured and rank equally with one another. 
    
  On June 26, 2012 we issued   $500 million   of   0.950%   Senior Notes due 2015,   $500 million   of   1.500%   Senior Notes due 2017, and   $500 million   of   2.600%   Senior Notes due 2022. 
    
  On August 15, 2012 and August 27, 2012, we exchanged   $1.72 billion   of newly issued   3.803%   Debentures due 2042 and   $179 million   of cash for   $1.33 billion   of several series of our outstanding debentures of varying interest rates and maturity dates.   This exchange met the requirements to be accounted for as a debt modification. 
    
  On May 24, 2011, we issued   $750 million   of Floating Rate Senior Notes (  Three-month USD LIBOR   plus   0.17%  ) due in 2013. The interest rates for the Floating Rate Senior Notes will be reset quarterly. We also issued   $750 million   of   1.375%   Senior Notes due in 2014,   $1.25 billion   of   3.900%   Senior Notes due in 2021, and   $1.25 billion   of   5.200%   Senior Notes due in 2041. 
    
  We may redeem the   1.375%  ,   5.700%  ,   3.900%   and   5.200%   notes and the   6.625%  ,   7.300%  ,   5.300%  ,   6.050%  ,   6.950%   and   7.375%   debentures in whole or in part at our option at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of   100%   of the  
    A-  70 

principal amount or the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest of the notes or debentures to be redeemed.  We may redeem some or all of the   0.950%   debentures and the   1.500%   debentures at our option at any time, and some or all of the   2.600%   debentures at any time prior to March 26, 2022 (three months prior to the maturity date of the 2022 debentures), in each case at a redemption price equal to the greater of   100%   of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed or at the discounted present value of the notes, calculated in accordance with the terms of the relevant notes.  We may redeem some or all of the   3.803%   debentures at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of   100%   of the principal amount of the debentures being redeemed or at a make-whole price calculated in accordance with the terms of the debentures.  The terms of other notes and debentures do not specify a redemption option prior to maturity. 
    
  Cat Financial's medium term notes are offered by prospectus and are issued through agents at fixed and floating rates.  These notes have a weighted average interest rate of   2.8%   with remaining maturities up to   12 years   at December 31, 2013. 
    
  The aggregate amounts of maturities of long-term debt during each of the years 2014 through 2018, including amounts due within one year and classified as current, are: 

Interest paid on short-term and long-term borrowings for   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was   $1,141 million  ,   $1,404 million   and   $1,208 million  , respectively. 
    
  Please refer to Note 18 and Table III for fair value information on long-term debt. 

We have   three   global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling   $10.00 billion   (Credit Facility) available in the aggregate to both Caterpillar and Cat Financial for general liquidity purposes.  Based on management's allocation decision, which can be revised from time to time, the portion of the Credit Facility available to Machinery and Power Systems as of   December 31, 2013   was   $2.75 billion  .  Our three Global Credit Facilities are: 

Other consolidated credit lines with banks as of   December 31, 2013   totaled   $4.51 billion  . These committed and uncommitted credit lines, which may be eligible for renewal at various future dates or have no specified expiration date, are used primarily  
    A-  71 

by our subsidiaries for local funding requirements.  Caterpillar or Cat Financial may guarantee subsidiary borrowings under these lines. 
    
  At December 31, 2013, Caterpillar's consolidated net worth was   $25.03 billion  , which was above the   $9.00 billion   required under the Credit Facility.  The consolidated net worth is defined as the consolidated stockholder's equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other postretirement benefits balance within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 
    
  At December 31, 2013, Cat Financial's covenant interest coverage ratio was   1.96   to   1  .  This is above the   1.15   to   1   minimum ratio, calculated as (1) profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to (2) interest expense calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended, required by the Credit Facility. 
    
  In addition, at December 31, 2013, Cat Financial's six-month covenant leverage ratio was   8.14   to   1   and year-end covenant leverage ratio was   7.99   to   1  .  This is below the maximum ratio of debt to net worth of   10   to   1  , calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31, required by the Credit Facility. 
    
  In the event Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet one or more of their respective financial covenants under the Credit Facility in the future (and are unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the syndicate of banks may terminate the commitments allocated to the party that does not meet its covenants.  Additionally, in such event, certain of Cat Financial's other lenders under other loan agreements where similar financial covenants or cross default provisions are applicable, may, at their election, choose to pursue remedies under those loan agreements, including accelerating the repayment of outstanding borrowings.  At December 31, 2013, there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility. 

1   
    Profit attributable to common stockholders. 
               2   
    Diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards using the treasury stock method. 

SARs and stock options to purchase   10,152,448  ,   6,066,777   and   2,902,533   common shares were outstanding in   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been antidilutive. 
    
  In February 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of   $7.5 billion   of Caterpillar stock, and in December 2011, the authorization was extended through December 31, 2015.  In April 2013, we entered into a definitive agreement with Citibank, N.A. to purchase shares of our common stock under an accelerated stock repurchase transaction (April ASR Agreement), which was completed in June 2013.  In accordance with the terms of the April ASR Agreement, a total of   11.5 million   shares of our common stock were repurchased at an aggregate cost to Caterpillar of   $1.0 billion  . 
    
    A-  72 

In July 2013, we entered into a definitive agreement with Soci t  G n rale to purchase shares of our common stock under an accelerated stock repurchase transaction (July ASR Agreement), which was completed in September 2013.  In accordance with the terms of the July ASR Agreement, a total of   11.9 million   shares of our common stock were repurchased at an aggregate cost to Caterpillar of   $1.0 billion  . 
    
  In January 2014, we completed the current   $7.5 billion   stock repurchase program as we entered into a definitive agreement with Citibank, N.A. to purchase shares of our common stock under an accelerated stock repurchase transaction (January ASR Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the January ASR Agreement, we have agreed to repurchase approximately   $1.7 billion   of our common stock from Citibank, N.A., with an immediate delivery of approximately   17.7 million   shares.  The final number of shares to be repurchased and the aggregate cost to Caterpillar will be based on Caterpillar's volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, which is expected to be completed in March 2014. 
    
  In addition, in January 2014, the Board authorized the repurchase of   $10 billion   of Caterpillar stock, which will expire on December 31, 2018.   
    
             17. 
    Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
       
  Comprehensive income and its components are presented in Statement 2.  Changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, included in Statement 4, consisted of the following: 

1   
    In conjunction with the Cat Japan share redemption, to reflect the increase in our ownership interest in Cat Japan from   67 percent    to   100 percent  ,    $107 million   was reclassified to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) from other components of stockholders' equity and was not included in Comprehensive income during the second quarter of 2012.  The amount was comprised of foreign currency translation of    $167 million  , pension and other postretirement benefits of    $(61) million   and available-for-sale securities of   $1 million  . 

A-  73 

The effect of the reclassifications out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on Statement 1 is as follows: 

(Millions of dollars) 
      
    Classification of income (expense) 
      
    Year ended December 31, 2013 

Pension and other postretirement benefits: 

Amortization of actuarial gain (loss) 
      
    Note 12    1  
      
    $ 
    (781 
    ) 
      
      Amortization of prior service credit (cost) 
      
    Note 12    1  
      
    54 

Amortization of transition asset (obligation) 
      
    Note 12    1  
      
    (2 
    ) 
      
      Reclassifications before tax 
      
    (729 
    ) 
      
      Tax (provision) benefit 
      
    247 

Reclassifications net of tax 
      
    $ 
    (482 
    ) 

Derivative financial instruments: 

Foreign exchange contracts 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    (57 
    ) 
      
      Interest rate contracts 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    (3 
    ) 
      
      Interest rate contracts 
      
    Interest expense of Financial Products 
      
    (6 
    ) 
      
      Reclassifications before tax 
      
    (66 
    ) 
      
      Tax (provision) benefit 
      
    25 

Reclassifications net of tax 
      
    $ 
    (41 
    ) 

Available-for-sale securities: 

Realized gain (loss) on sale of securities 
      
    Other income (expense) 
      
    $ 
    19 

Tax (provision) benefit 
      
    (6 
    ) 
      
      Reclassifications net of tax 
      
    $ 
    13 

Total reclassifications from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
      
    $ 
    (510 
    ) 

1       Amounts are included in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost.  See Note 12 for additional information.                         

18. 
    Fair value disclosures 
       
           A. 
    Fair value measurements 
       
  The guidance on fair value measurements defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.  This guidance also specifies a fair value hierarchy based upon the observability of inputs used in valuation techniques.  Observable inputs (highest level) reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs (lowest level) reflect internally developed market assumptions.  In accordance with this guidance, fair value measurements are classified under the following hierarchy: 

Level 1         Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. 

Level 2     Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs or significant value-drivers are observable in active markets. 

Level 3     Model-derived valuations in which one or more significant inputs or significant value-drivers are unobservable. 
       
    A-  74 

When available, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value, and we classify such measurements within Level 1.  In some cases where market prices are not available, we make use of observable market based inputs to calculate fair value, in which case the measurements are classified within Level 2.  If quoted or observable market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use, where possible, current market-based parameters such as interest rates, yield curves and currency rates.  These measurements are classified within Level 3. 
    
  Fair value measurements are classified according to the lowest level input or value-driver that is significant to the valuation.  A measurement may therefore be classified within Level 3 even though there may be significant inputs that are readily observable. 
    
  Fair value measurement includes the consideration of nonperformance risk.  Nonperformance risk refers to the risk that an obligation (either by a counterparty or Caterpillar) will not be fulfilled.  For financial assets traded in an active market (Level 1 and certain Level 2), the nonperformance risk is included in the market price.  For certain other financial assets and liabilities (certain Level 2 and Level 3), our fair value calculations have been adjusted accordingly. 
    
  Available-for-sale securities 
  Our available-for-sale securities, primarily at Insurance Services, include a mix of equity and debt instruments (see Note 11 for additional information).  Fair values for our U.S. treasury bonds and equity securities are based upon valuations for identical instruments in active markets.  Fair values for other government bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed debt securities are based upon models that take into consideration such market-based factors as recent sales, risk-free yield curves and prices of similarly rated bonds. 
    
  Derivative financial instruments 
  The fair value of interest rate swap derivatives is primarily based on models that utilize the appropriate market-based forward swap curves and zero-coupon interest rates to determine discounted cash flows.  The fair value of foreign currency and commodity forward, option and cross currency contracts is based on a valuation model that discounts cash flows resulting from the differential between the contract price and the market-based forward rate. 
    
  Guarantees 
  The fair value of guarantees is based on our estimate of the premium a market participant would require to issue the same guarantee in a stand-alone arms-length transaction with an unrelated party. If quoted or observable market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that utilize current market-based assumptions. 
    
  Assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis at fair value, primarily related to Financial Products, included in Statement 3 as of December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   are summarized below: 
    
    A-  75 

A-  76 

A-  77 

Below are roll-forwards of liabilities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs for the years ended December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  .  These instruments were valued using pricing models that, in management s judgment, reflect the assumptions of a market participant. 

A-  78 

In addition to the amounts above, Cat Financial impaired loans are subject to measurement at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.  A loan is considered impaired when management determines that collection of contractual amounts due is not probable.  In these cases, an allowance for credit losses may be established based primarily on the fair value of associated collateral.  As the collateral s fair value is based on observable market prices and/or current appraised values, the impaired loans are classified as Level 2 measurements.  Cat Financial had impaired loans with a fair value of   $81 million  ,   $117 million   and   $96 million   for the years ended December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively.   
    
           B. 
    Fair values of financial instruments 
       
  In addition to the methods and assumptions we use to record the fair value of financial instruments as discussed in the Fair value measurements section above, we used the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of our financial instruments: 
    
  Cash and short-term investments 
  Carrying amount approximated fair value. 
    
  Restricted cash and short-term investments 
  Carrying amount approximated fair value.  Restricted cash and short-term investments are included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets in Statement 3. 
    
  Finance receivables 
  Fair value was estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current rates, representative of receivables with similar remaining maturities. 
    
  Wholesale inventory receivables 
  Fair value was estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current rates, representative of receivables with similar remaining maturities. 
    
  Short-term borrowings 
  Carrying amount approximated fair value. 
    
  Long-term debt 
  Fair value for fixed and floating rate debt was estimated based on quoted market prices. 
    
  Please refer to the table below for the fair values of our financial instruments. 
    
    A-  79 

19. 
    Concentration of credit risk 
       
  Financial instruments with potential credit risk consist primarily of trade and finance receivables and short-term and long-term investments.  Additionally, to a lesser extent, we have a potential credit risk associated with counterparties to derivative contracts. 
    
  Trade receivables are primarily short-term receivables from independently owned and operated dealers and customers which arise in the normal course of business.  We perform regular credit evaluations of our dealers and customers.  Collateral generally is not required, and the majority of our trade receivables are unsecured.  We do, however, when deemed necessary, make use of various devices such as security agreements and letters of credit to protect our interests.  No single dealer or customer represents a significant concentration of credit risk. 
    
  Finance receivables and wholesale inventory receivables primarily represent receivables under installment sales contracts, receivables arising from leasing transactions and notes receivable.  We generally maintain a secured interest in the equipment financed.  No single customer or dealer represents a significant concentration of credit risk. 
    
  Short-term and long-term investments are held with high quality institutions and, by policy, the amount of credit exposure to any one institution is limited.  Long-term investments, primarily included in Other assets in Statement 3, are comprised primarily of available-for-sale securities at Insurance Services. 
    
  For derivative contracts, collateral is generally not required of the counterparties or of our company.  The company generally enters into International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting agreements within Machinery   Power Systems and Financial Products that permit the net settlement of amounts owed under their respective derivative contracts.  Our exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties is limited to only those gains that we have recorded, but for which we have not yet received cash payment.  The master netting agreements reduce the amount of loss the company would incur should the counterparties fail to meet their obligations.  At December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , the  
    A-  80 

maximum exposure to credit loss, including accrued interest, was   $251 million  ,   $366 million   and   $443 million  , respectively, before the application of any master netting agreements.  Please refer to Note 18 and Table III above for fair value information. 

We lease certain computer and communications equipment, transportation equipment and other property through operating leases. Total rental expense for operating leases was   $436 million  ,   $474 million  , and   $429 million   for   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
    
  Minimum payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are: 

21. 
    Guarantees and product warranty 
       
  We have provided an indemnity to a third-party insurance company for potential losses related to performance bonds issued on behalf of Caterpillar dealers.  The bonds are issued to insure governmental agencies against nonperformance by certain dealers.  We also provided guarantees to a third-party related to the performance of contractual obligations by certain Caterpillar dealers. The guarantees cover potential financial losses incurred by the third-party resulting from the dealers  nonperformance. 
    
  We provide loan guarantees to third-party lenders for financing associated with machinery purchased by customers. These guarantees have varying terms and are secured by the machinery. In addition, Cat Financial participates in standby letters of credit issued to third parties on behalf of their customers. These standby letters of credit have varying terms and beneficiaries and are secured by customer assets. 
    
  We have provided a guarantee to one of our customers in Brazil related to the performance of contractual obligations by a supplier consortium to which one of our Caterpillar subsidiaries is a member. The guarantees cover potential damages (some of them capped) incurred by the customer resulting from the supplier consortium s non-performance.  The guarantee will expire when the supplier consortium performs all its contractual obligations, which is expected to be completed in 2022.   
    
  We have provided guarantees to third-party lessors for certain properties leased by Cat Logistics Services, LLC, in which we sold a   65 percent   equity interest in the third quarter of 2012.  See Note 26 for further discussion on this divestiture.  The guarantees are for the possibility that the third party logistics business would default on real estate lease payments.  The guarantees were granted at lease inception, which was prior to the divestiture, and generally will expire at the end of the lease terms.   
    
  Cat Financial provided a limited indemnity to a third-party bank resulting from the assignment of certain leases to that bank.  The indemnity was for the possibility that the insurers of these leases would become insolvent.  The indemnity expired December 15, 2012. 
    
  No loss has been experienced or is anticipated under any of these guarantees.  At December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , the related liability was   $13 million  ,   $14 million   and   $7 million  , respectively.  The maximum potential amount of future payments (undiscounted and without reduction for any amounts that may possibly be recovered under recourse or collateralized provisions) we could be required to make under the guarantees at December 31 are as follows: 
    
    A-  81 

Cat Financial provides guarantees to repurchase certain loans of Caterpillar dealers from a special-purpose corporation (SPC) that qualifies as a variable interest entity.  The purpose of the SPC is to provide short-term working capital loans to Caterpillar dealers.  This SPC issues commercial paper and uses the proceeds to fund its loan program.  Cat Financial has a loan purchase agreement with the SPC that obligates Cat Financial to purchase certain loans that are not paid at maturity.  Cat Financial receives a fee for providing this guarantee, which provides a source of liquidity for the SPC.  Cat Financial is the primary beneficiary of the SPC as their guarantees result in Cat Financial having both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the SPC s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses, and therefore Cat Financial has consolidated the financial statements of the SPC.  As of December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , the SPC s assets of   $1,005 million  ,   $927 million   and   $586 million  , respectively, are primarily comprised of loans to dealers, and the SPC s liabilities of   $1,005 million  ,   $927 million   and   $586 million  , respectively, are primarily comprised of commercial paper.  The assets of the SPC are not available to pay Cat Financial's creditors.  Cat Financial may be obligated to perform under the guarantee if the SPC experiences losses.  No loss has been experienced or is anticipated under this loan purchase agreement. 
    
  Cat Financial is party to agreements in the normal course of business with selected customers and Caterpillar dealers in which we commit to provide a set dollar amount of financing on a pre-approved basis.  We also provide lines of credit to selected customers and Caterpillar dealers, of which a portion remains unused as of the end of the period.  Commitments and lines of credit generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. It has been our experience that not all commitments and lines of credit will be used. Management applies the same credit policies when making commitments and granting lines of credit as it does for any other financing. 
    
  Cat Financial does not require collateral for these commitments/lines, but if credit is extended, collateral may be required upon funding.  The amount of the unused commitments and lines of credit for dealers as of December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was   $10,503 million  ,   $10,863 million   and   $6,469 million  , respectively.  The amount of the unused commitments and lines of credit for customers as of December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011   was   $4,635 million  ,   $4,690 million   and   $2,785 million  , respectively. 
    
  Our product warranty liability is determined by applying historical claim rate experience to the current field population and dealer inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on actual warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine size by customer or dealer location (inside or outside North America).  Specific rates are developed for each product shipment month and are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim experience. 

22. 
    Environmental and legal matters 
       
  The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. We have made, and will continue to make, significant research and development and capital expenditures to comply with these emissions standards. 
    A-  82 

We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the investigation, remediation, and operating and maintenance costs are accrued against our earnings.  Costs are accrued based on consideration of currently available data and information with respect to each individual site, including available technologies, current applicable laws and regulations, and prior remediation experience.  Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, we accrue the minimum.  Where multiple potentially responsible parties are involved, we consider our proportionate share of the probable costs.  In formulating the estimate of probable costs, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others.  We reassess these accrued amounts on a quarterly basis.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in Accrued expenses in Statement 3.  There is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all the sites in the aggregate, will be required.   
    
  On October 24, 2013, Progress Rail Services Corporation (Progress Rail), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Caterpillar Inc., received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The subpoena requests documents and information from Progress Rail, United Industries Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Progress Rail, and Caterpillar Inc. relating to allegations that Progress Rail conducted improper or unnecessary railcar inspections and repairs and improperly disposed of parts, equipment, tools and other items. In connection with this subpoena, Progress Rail was informed by the U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of environmental laws and alleged improper business practices. The Company is cooperating with the authorities. The Company is unable to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate the potential loss; however, we currently believe that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operation, financial position or liquidity.  
    
  Beginning in September 2010, the company filed a series of legal claims to collect policy proceeds from a third party insurance company to recover amounts paid for covered asbestos defense and settlement costs for occurrences between 1962 and 1981.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, the company reached final settlement with the third party insurance company.  As a result, a gain of   $68 million   was recognized in Other operating (income) expense in Statement 1. 
    
  In addition, we are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve disputes related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues, environmental matters or intellectual property rights.  The aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities, if any, associated with these unresolved legal actions is not material.  In some cases, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of loss because there is insufficient information regarding the matter.  However, there is no more than a remote chance that any liability arising from these matters would be material.  Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 
    
             23. 
    Segment information 
       
           A. 
    Basis for segment information 
       
  Our Executive Office is comprised of   five   Group Presidents, a Senior Vice President and a CEO.  Group Presidents are accountable for a related set of end-to-end businesses that they manage.  The Senior Vice President leads the Caterpillar Enterprise System Group, which was formed during the second quarter of 2013 with the goal of improving our manufacturing and supply chain capabilities, driving sustained improvements in customer deliveries, improving operational efficiencies and building on recent product quality improvements.  The CEO allocates resources and manages performance at the Group President level.  As such, the CEO serves as our Chief Operating Decision Maker and operating segments are primarily based on the Group President reporting structure. 
     
  Three   of our operating segments, Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Power Systems, are led by Group Presidents.    One   operating segment, Financial Products, is led by a Group President who has responsibility for Corporate Services.  Corporate Services is a cost center primarily responsible for the performance of certain support functions globally and to provide centralized services; it does not meet the definition of an operating segment.  The Caterpillar Enterprise System Group is also a cost center and does not meet the definition of an operating segment.    One   Group President leads a smaller operating segment that is included in the All Other operating segment. 
    
    A-  83 

In 2012, a portion of goodwill related to recent acquisitions was allocated to Machinery and Power Systems operating segments and is now a methodology difference between segment and external reporting.  The segment information for 2011 has been retrospectively adjusted.  
    
     B.                 Description of segments 
    
  We have   five   operating segments, of which   four   are reportable segments.  Following is a brief description of our reportable segments and the business activities included in the All Other operating segment: 
    
  Construction Industries  :  A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in infrastructure and building construction applications.  Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, marketing, and sales and product support.  The product portfolio includes backhoe loaders, small wheel loaders, small track-type tractors, skid steer loaders, multi-terrain loaders, mini excavators, compact wheel loaders, select work tools, small, medium and large track excavators, wheel excavators, medium wheel loaders, compact track loaders, medium track-type tractors, track-type loaders, motor graders and pipelayers.  In addition, Construction Industries has responsibility for Power Systems and three wholly-owned dealers in Japan and an integrated manufacturing cost center.  Inter-segment sales are a source of revenue for this segment. 
    
  Resource Industries  :       A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in mining and quarrying applications. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product portfolio includes large track-type tractors, large mining trucks, underground mining equipment, electric rope shovels, draglines, hydraulic shovels, drills, highwall miners,  tunnel boring equipment, large wheel loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, wheel tractor scrapers, wheel dozers, select work tools, forestry products, paving products, industrial and waste products, machinery components and electronics and control systems. Resource Industries also manages areas that provide services to other parts of the company, including integrated manufacturing and research and development.  In addition, segment profit includes the impact from divestiture of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business and the acquisition of ERA Mining Machinery Limited, including its wholly-owned subsidiary Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical   Electrical Manufacturing Co., Ltd., commonly known as Siwei, which was completed during the second quarter of 2012.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, Siwei was renamed Caterpillar (Zhengzhou) Ltd.  Siwei primarily designs, manufactures, sells and supports underground coal mining equipment in China.  Inter-segment sales are a source of revenue for this segment. 
    
  Power Systems  :  A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using reciprocating engines, turbines and related parts across industries serving electric power, industrial, petroleum and marine applications as well as rail-related businesses. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management, development, manufacturing, marketing, sales and product support of reciprocating engine powered generator sets, integrated systems used in the electric power generation industry, reciprocating engines and integrated systems and solutions for the marine and petroleum industries; reciprocating engines supplied to the industrial industry as well as Caterpillar machinery; the business strategy, product design, product management, development, manufacturing, marketing, sales and product support of turbines and turbine-related services; the development, manufacturing, remanufacturing, maintenance, leasing and service of diesel-electric locomotives and components and other rail-related products and services.  Inter-segment sales are a source of revenue for this segment. 
    
  Financial Products Segment  :  Provides financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment, as well as some financing for Caterpillar sales to dealers.  Financing plans include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, working capital loans and wholesale financing plans. The segment also provides various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and lease of our equipment. 
    
  All Other  :      Primarily includes activities such as: the remanufacturing of Cat  engines and components and remanufacturing services for other companies as well as the product management, development, manufacturing, marketing and product support of undercarriage, specialty products, hardened bar stock components and ground engaging tools primarily for Caterpillar products; logistics services; the product management, development, marketing, sales and product support of on-highway vocational trucks for North America; distribution services responsible for dealer development and administration, dealer portfolio management and ensuring the most efficient and effective distribution of machines, engines and parts; and the 50/50 joint venture with Navistar (NC   2   ) until it became a wholly owned subsidiary of Navistar effective September 29, 2011.  On July 31, 2012, we sold a majority interest in Caterpillar's third party logistics business.  Inter-segment sales are a source of revenue for this segment.  Results for the All Other operating segment are included as a reconciling item between reportable segments and consolidated external reporting. 
    
    A-  84 

C.                 Segment measurement and reconciliations 
    
  There are several methodology differences between our segment reporting and our external reporting.  The following is a list of the more significant methodology differences: 

Machinery and Power Systems segment net assets generally include inventories, receivables, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangibles, accounts payable, and customer advances.  Liabilities other than accounts payable and customer advances are generally managed at the corporate level and are not included in segment operations.  Financial Products Segment assets generally include all categories of assets. 

Segment inventories and cost of sales are valued using a current cost methodology. 

Goodwill allocated to segments is amortized using a fixed amount based on a   20   year useful life.  This methodology difference only impacts segment assets; no goodwill amortization expense is included in segment profit.  In addition, only a portion of goodwill for certain acquisitions made in 2011 or later has been allocated to segments. 

The present value of future lease payments for certain Machinery and Power Systems operating leases is included in segment assets.  The estimated financing component of the lease payments is excluded. 

Currency exposures for Machinery and Power Systems are generally managed at the corporate level and the effects of changes in exchange rates on results of operations within the year are not included in segment profit.  The net difference created in the translation of revenues and costs between exchange rates used for U.S. GAAP reporting and exchange rates used for segment reporting are recorded as a methodology difference. 

Postretirement benefit expenses are split; segments are generally responsible for service and prior service costs, with the remaining elements of net periodic benefit cost included as a methodology difference. 

Machinery and Power Systems segment profit is determined on a pretax basis and excludes interest expense, gains and losses on interest rate swaps and other income/expense items.  Financial Products Segment profit is determined on a pretax basis and includes other income/expense items. 
       
  Reconciling items are created based on accounting differences between segment reporting and our consolidated external reporting. Please refer to pages A-87 to A-91 for financial information regarding significant reconciling items.  Most of our reconciling items are self-explanatory given the above explanations.  For the reconciliation of profit, we have grouped the reconciling items as follows: 

Corporate costs:    These costs are related to corporate requirements and strategies that are considered to be for the benefit of the entire organization. 

Methodology differences:    See previous discussion of significant accounting differences between segment reporting and consolidated external reporting. 

Timing:     Timing differences in the recognition of costs between segment reporting and consolidated external reporting. 
       
    A-  85 

A-  86 

1   
    Elimination of Financial Products revenues from Machinery and Power Systems. 

A-  87 

A-  88 

A-  89 

A-  90 

Enterprise-wide Disclosures: 
    
  Information about Geographic Areas: 

1   
    Sales of Machinery and Power Systems are based on dealer or customer location. Revenues from services provided are based on where service is rendered. 
               2   
    The only country with greater than   10 percent   of external sales and revenues for any of the periods presented, other than the United States, is Australia with   $6,822 million   as of December 31, 2012. 

A-  91 

Johan Walter Berg AB 
    
  In September 2013, we acquired   100 percent   of the stock of Johan Walter Berg AB (Berg).  Berg is a leading manufacturer of mechanically and electrically driven propulsion systems and marine controls for ships.  Headquartered in  cker  Islands, Sweden, Berg has designed and manufactured heavy-duty marine thrusters and controllable pitch propellers since 1929.  Its proprietary systems are employed in maritime applications throughout the world that require precise maneuvering and positioning.  With the acquisition, Caterpillar will transition from selling only engines and generators to providing complete marine propulsion package systems.  The purchase price, net of   $9 million   of acquired cash, was approximately   $166 million  .  The purchase price includes contingent consideration, payable in 2016, with a fair value of approximately   $7 million  .  The contingent consideration will be based on the revenues achieved by Berg in the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2015 and is capped at    30 million  .  The contingent consideration will be remeasured each reporting period at its estimated fair value with any adjustment included in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1.  
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash.  Tangible assets as of the acquisition date were   $82 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included cash of   $9 million  , receivables of   $13 million  , inventories of   $32 million   and property, plant and equipment of   $28 million  .  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of   $70 million   included developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names.  The finite lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average amortization period of approximately   11 years  .  Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date were   $83 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included accounts payable of   $19 million  , customer advances of   $31 million   and net deferred tax liabilities of   $15 million  .  Goodwill of   $106 million  , non-deductible for income tax purposes, represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represented the estimated future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized.  Factors that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill include Berg s strategic fit into our product portfolio, the opportunity to provide worldwide support to marine operators for a complete, optimized propulsion package, and the acquired assembled workforce.  These values represent a preliminary allocation of purchase price subject to finalization of post-closing procedures.  The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Power Systems segment in Note 23.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results.   
    
  Black Horse Joint Venture 
    
  In December 2012, Caterpillar and Ariel Corporation (Ariel) contributed   $70 million   each to obtain a   50 percent   equity interest in a newly formed company, Black Horse LLC (Black Horse). Immediately upon formation, Black Horse acquired ProSource, a pump manufacturer headquartered in Houston, Texas.  The acquisition of ProSource, which designs and manufactures reciprocating pressure pumps, enables Black Horse to serve the well service market. Black Horse will leverage Caterpillar and Ariel engineering and manufacturing expertise to expand ProSource's existing product line to better serve global oil and gas customers. Frac pumps sold through the combined venture will be branded and sold under the Caterpillar name and will be distributed through the Caterpillar dealer network.  Our investment in Black Horse, accounted for by the equity method, is included in Investments in unconsolidated affiliated companies in Statement 3. 
    
  ERA Mining Machinery Limited (Siwei) 
    
  During the second quarter of 2012, Caterpillar, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Caterpillar (Luxembourg) Investment Co. S.A. (CAT Lux), completed a tender offer to acquire the issued shares of ERA Mining Machinery Limited (Siwei), including its wholly-owned subsidiary Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical Manufacturing Co., Ltd.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, Siwei was renamed Caterpillar (Zhengzhou) Ltd.  Substantially all of the issued shares of Siwei, a public company listed on the Hong Kong Exchange, were acquired at the end of May 2012.  In October 2012, the remaining shares of Siwei common stock were acquired for approximately   $7 million   in cash.  Siwei primarily designs, manufactures, sells and supports underground coal mining equipment in mainland China and is known for its expertise in manufacturing mining roof support equipment.  The acquisition supports Caterpillar's long-term commitment to invest in China in order to support our growing base of Chinese customers and will further expand our underground mining business both inside and outside of China.   
    
  The tender offer allowed Siwei shareholders to choose between   two   types of consideration in exchange for their shares.  The alternatives were either cash consideration of HK  $0.88   or a HK  $1.00   loan note issued by CAT Lux to the former shareholders of Siwei that provided, subject to its terms, for the holder to receive on redemption a minimum of HK  $0.75   up to a maximum of HK  $1.15   depending on Siwei's consolidated gross profit for 2012 and 2013.  Approximately   4 billion   Siwei shares were  
    A-  92 

tendered for the cash alternative and approximately   1.6 billion   Siwei shares were tendered for the loan note alternative.  The purchase price of approximately   $677 million   was comprised of net cash paid of approximately   $444 million   (  $475 million   in cash paid for shares and to cancel share options less cash acquired of   $31 million  ), the fair value of the loan notes of   $152 million  , approximately   $168 million   of assumed third-party short term borrowings and notes payable, a loan and interest payable to Caterpillar from Siwei of   $51 million  , less restricted cash acquired of approximately   $138 million  .  The noncontrolling interest for the outstanding shares not tendered was approximately   $7 million  . 
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash and included the issuance of loan notes to certain former shareholders of Siwei, which had a debt component and a portion that was contingent consideration.  The   $152 million   fair value represented the minimum redemption amount of the debt component payable in April 2013.   
    
  Tangible assets as of the acquisition date and after giving effect to the adjustments described below were   $598 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included cash of   $31 million  , restricted cash of   $138 million  , receivables of   $184 million  , inventories of   $77 million   and property, plant and equipment of   $94 million  . Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of   $112 million   were primarily related to customer relationships and also included trade names. The finite-lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted average amortization period of approximately   14 years  .  Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date and after giving effect to the adjustments described below were   $626 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included accounts payable of   $352 million  , third-party short term borrowings and notes payable of   $168 million   and accrued expenses of   $37 million  .  Additionally, deferred tax liabilities were   $25 million  . Goodwill of   $625 million  , substantially all of which is non-deductible for income tax purposes, represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represented the estimated future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill will not be amortized, but will be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill include expected cost savings primarily from increased purchasing power for raw materials, improved working capital management, expanded underground mining equipment sales opportunities in China and internationally, along with the acquired assembled workforce.  The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Resource Industries segment in Note 23.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results. 
    
  In November 2012, Caterpillar became aware of inventory accounting discrepancies at Siwei which led to an internal investigation.  Caterpillar's investigation determined that Siwei had engaged in accounting misconduct prior to Caterpillar's acquisition of Siwei in mid-2012.  The accounting misconduct included inappropriate accounting practices involving improper cost allocation that resulted in overstated profit and improper revenue recognition practices involving early and, at times unsupported, revenue recognition.  Due to the identified accounting misconduct that occurred before the acquisition, measurement period adjustments were made to the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities during the fourth quarter of 2012.  The fair values presented above are a final allocation of the purchase price and reflect these changes, which are primarily comprised of a decrease in finite-lived intangible assets of   $82 million  , a decrease in receivables of   $29 million  , a decrease in inventory of   $17 million   and a net increase in liabilities of   $23 million  , resulting in an increase in goodwill of   $149 million  .  
    
  Because of the accounting misconduct identified in the fourth quarter of 2012, Siwei's goodwill was tested for impairment as of November 30, 2012.  We determined the carrying value of Siwei, which is a separate reporting unit, exceeded its fair value at the measurement date, requiring step two in the impairment test process.  The fair value of the Siwei reporting unit was determined primarily using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows. We assigned the fair value to the reporting unit's assets and liabilities and determined the implied fair value of goodwill was substantially below the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill.  Accordingly, we recognized a   $580 million   goodwill impairment charge, which resulted in goodwill of approximately   $45 million   remaining for Siwei.  The goodwill impairment was a result of changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value resulting from the accounting misconduct that occurred before the acquisition.  There was no tax benefit associated with this impairment charge.  The Siwei goodwill impairment charge was reported in the fourth quarter of 2012 in the Resource Industries segment. 
    
  In May 2013, Caterpillar and its wholly-owned subsidiaries CAT Lux and Siwei entered into a settlement agreement with   two   former directors of Siwei and   two   other parties with an interest in the settlement, including Mining Machinery Limited (MML).  The agreement settles the dispute between the parties which arose from Caterpillar's determination that Siwei senior managers had engaged in accounting misconduct for several years prior to Caterpillar's announcement of the completion of its tender offer for Siwei in the second quarter of 2012. 
    
    A-  93 

Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the parties agreed that (i) the loan notes issued by CAT Lux (and guaranteed by Caterpillar) as a portion of the Siwei purchase price and held by MML and (ii) loans made by the   two   former Siwei directors to Siwei prior to its acquisition by Caterpillar would all be canceled and discharged in exchange for payments by CAT Lux to MML and the   two   former directors in an aggregate amount of approximately   $30 million  .  As of the settlement in May 2013, the loan notes had a book value of approximately   $152 million   and the obligation related to the loans by the   two   former directors was approximately   $13 million  .  The settlement agreement contains a mutual release and discharge of the parties' respective claims with respect to the dispute and contains an agreement by Caterpillar and CAT Lux not to pursue any such claims against either the auditors or former directors of Siwei.  The settlement and discharge of the loan obligations resulted in the recognition of a gain of approximately   $135 million   reported in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1 and is included in the Resource Industries segment.  
    
  Caterpillar Tohoku Ltd. 
    
  In March 2012, we acquired   100 percent   of the stock of Caterpillar Tohoku Ltd. (Cat Tohoku). Cat Tohoku was an independently owned and operated dealership providing sales, rental, service and after market support for Caterpillar machines and engines in the northeastern part of Japan. The purchase price, net of   $18 million   of acquired cash, was approximately   $206 million  . The purchase price included the assumption of   $77 million   in third-party debt, as well as   $64 million   net trade payables due to Caterpillar. We paid approximately   $59 million   at closing,   $22 million   in July 2012, and   $3 million   in March 2013.  The acquisition of Cat Tohoku supports Caterpillar's efforts to restructure its distribution network in Japan. 
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash. Tangible assets as of the acquisition date were   $252 million   and primarily included cash of   $18 million  , receivables of   $34 million  , inventory of   $26 million  , and property, plant and equipment of   $157 million  . Finite-lived intangible assets acquired were   $8 million  . Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date were   $135 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included debt of   $77 million   and accounts payable of   $39 million  .  Goodwill of   $22 million  , which is deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired. The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Construction Industries segment in Note 23.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results. 
    
  MWM Holding GmbH (MWM) 
    
  On October 31, 2011, we acquired   100 percent   of the equity in privately held MWM Holding GmbH (MWM).  Headquartered in Mannheim, Germany, MWM is a global supplier of sustainable, natural gas and alternative-fuel engines.  With the acquisition of MWM, Caterpillar expects to expand customer options for sustainable power generation solutions.  The purchase price, net of   $94 million   of acquired cash, was approximately   $774 million   (   574 million  ).  
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash.  Tangible assets as of the acquisition date were   $535 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included cash of   $94 million  , receivables of   $96 million  , inventories of   $205 million   and property, plant and equipment of   $108 million  .  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of   $221 million   were primarily related to customer relationships and also included intellectual property and trade names.  The finite lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted average amortization period of approximately   10 years  .  Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date were   $284 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included accounts payable of   $77 million  , net deferred tax liabilities of   $67 million   and advance payments of   $43 million  .  Goodwill of   $396 million  , approximately   $90 million   of which is deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired.  Factors that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill include MWM s strategic fit into our product and services portfolio, aftermarket support opportunities and the acquired assembled workforce.  The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Power Systems segment in Note 23.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results. 
    
    A-  94 

Pyroban Group Limited 
    
  In August 2011, we acquired   100 percent   of the stock of Pyroban Group Limited (Pyroban) for approximately   $69 million  .  Pyroban is a leading provider of explosion protection safety solutions to the oil, gas, industrial and material handling markets headquartered in the United Kingdom with additional locations in the Netherlands, France, Singapore and China.  We expect this acquisition will allow us to grow our existing position in the oil and gas industry and provide further differentiation versus competition. 
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash.  As of the acquisition date, net tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed of   $5 million   were recorded at their fair values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of   $41 million   included customer relationships and trademarks are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average amortization period of approximately   15 years  .  Goodwill of   $23 million  , non-deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets acquired.  The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and reported in the Power Systems segment in Note 23.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results. 
    
  Bucyrus International, Inc. 
    
  On July 8, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc. (Bucyrus).  Bucyrus is a designer, manufacturer and marketer of mining equipment for the surface and underground mining industries.  The total purchase price was approximately   $8.8 billion  , consisting of   $7.4 billion   for the purchase of all outstanding shares of Bucyrus common stock at   $92   per share and   $1.6 billion   of assumed Bucyrus debt, substantially all of which was repaid subsequent to closing, net of   $0.2 billion   of acquired cash. 
    
  We funded the acquisition using available cash, commercial paper borrowings and approximately   $4.5 billion   of long-term debt issued in May 2011.  On May 24, 2011, we issued   $500 million   of Floating Rate Senior Notes (  Three-month USD LIBOR   plus   0.10%  ) due in 2012 and   $750 million   of Floating Rate Senior Notes (  Three-month USD LIBOR   plus   0.17%  ) due in 2013.  The interest rates for the Floating Rate Senior Notes will be reset quarterly.  We also issued   $750 million   of   1.375%   Senior Notes due in 2014,   $1.25 billion   of   3.900%   Senior Notes due in 2021, and   $1.25 billion   of   5.200%   Senior Notes due in 2041.  The Notes are unsecured obligations of Caterpillar and rank equally with all other senior unsecured indebtedness. 
    
  In December 2011 and continuing in 2012 and 2013, we completed divestitures of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business.  The following disclosures do not reflect the impact of these divestitures (see Note 26 for additional discussion). 
    
  Bucyrus contributed the following to sales and to profit before taxes (inclusive of deal-related and integration costs):   

The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Resource Industries segment in Note 23.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded   $373 million   in costs related to the acquisition of Bucyrus.  These acquisition related costs included consulting, legal and advisory fees, severance costs and financing costs.   
    
  During the three months ended December 31, 2011, we adjusted the initial allocation of the purchase price which reduced goodwill by   $647 million  , the net result of purchase accounting adjustments to the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.  During 2012, we finalized the allocation of the purchase price to identifiable assets and liabilities, reducing the amount allocated to goodwill from our December 31, 2011 preliminary allocation by an additional   $28 million  .  These adjustments primarily included a reduction to goodwill to reflect the tax consequences of the expected reversal of differences in the U.S. GAAP and tax basis of assets and liabilities. 
    
  The following table summarizes our initial and final allocation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date at estimated fair value. 
    A-  95 

The following table is a summary of the fair value estimates of the acquired identifiable intangible assets and weighted average useful lives.  These intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their respective weighted-average useful life. 

Goodwill in the amount of   $4,588 million   was recorded for the acquisition of Bucyrus.  Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the estimated future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized.  Goodwill will not be amortized, but will be tested for impairment at least annually.  Approximately   $500 million   of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.  Goodwill largely consists of expected synergies resulting from the acquisition.  Key areas of expected cost savings include elimination of redundant selling, general and administrative expenses and increased purchasing power for raw materials and supplies.  We also anticipate the acquisition will produce growth synergies as a result of the combined businesses  broader product portfolio in the mining industry. 
    
  A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions.  The judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. 
    
  The unaudited pro forma results presented below include the effects of the Bucyrus acquisition as if it had occurred as of January 1, 2010.  The unaudited pro forma results reflect certain adjustments related to the acquisition, such as the amortization  
    A-  96 

associated with estimates for the acquired intangible assets, fair value adjustments for inventory, contracts and the impact of acquisition financing.  The 2011 supplemental pro forma earnings excluded   $373 million   of acquisition related costs, including consulting, legal and advisory fees, severance costs and financing expense prior to debt issuance.  Also, the 2011 supplemental pro forma earnings were adjusted to exclude   $303 million   of nonrecurring expense related to the fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory and   $25 million   acceleration of Bucyrus stock compensation expense.   
    
  The pro forma results do not include any anticipated synergies or other expected benefits of the acquisition.  Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma financial information below is not necessarily indicative of either future results of operations or results that might have been achieved had the acquisition been completed on the dates indicated. 

Balfour Beatty s Trackwork Business 
    
  In May 2011, we acquired   100 percent   of the assets and certain liabilities of the United Kingdom trackwork business from Balfour Beatty Rail Limited for approximately   $60 million  .  The trackwork division specializes in the design and manufacture of special trackwork and associated products for the United Kingdom and international rail markets.  The acquisition supports our strategic initiative to expand the scope and product range of our rail business. 
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash.  Tangible assets as of the acquisition date were   $82 million  , recorded at their fair values, and included receivables of   $18 million  , inventory of   $12 million  , and property, plant and equipment of   $52 million  .  Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date were   $22 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included accounts payable of   $10 million   and accrued expenses of   $10 million  .  The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Power Systems segment in Note 23.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results. 
      
             25. 
    Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest   Caterpillar Japan Ltd. 
       
  On August 1, 2008, Shin Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) completed the first phase of a share redemption plan whereby SCM redeemed half of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries' (MHI s) shares in SCM. This resulted in Caterpillar owning   67 percent   of the outstanding shares of SCM and MHI owning the remaining   33 percent  . As part of the share redemption, SCM was renamed Caterpillar Japan Ltd. (Cat Japan) and we consolidated its financial statements. On April 2, 2012, we redeemed the remaining   33 percent   interest at its carrying amount, resulting in Caterpillar becoming the sole owner of Cat Japan. Caterpillar paid   $444 million   (  36.5 billion   Japanese Yen) to acquire the remaining equity interest held in Cat Japan by MHI. 
    
             26. 
    Divestitures and Assets held for sale 
       
  Bucyrus Distribution Business Divestitures 
    
  In conjunction with our acquisition of Bucyrus in July 2011, we announced our intention to sell the Bucyrus distribution business to Caterpillar dealers that support mining customers around the world in a series of individual transactions.  Bucyrus predominantly employed a direct to end customer model to sell and support products.  The intention is for all Bucyrus products to be sold and serviced by Caterpillar dealers, consistent with our long-held distribution strategy.  These transitions are occurring in phases based on the mining business opportunity within each dealer territory. 
    
  As portions of the Bucyrus distribution business are sold or classified as held for sale, they will not qualify as discontinued operations because Caterpillar expects significant continuing direct cash flows from the Caterpillar dealers after the divestitures.  The gain or loss on disposal, along with the continuing operations of these disposal groups, will be reported in the Resource Industries segment.  Goodwill will be allocated to each disposal group using the relative fair value method.  The value of the customer relationship intangibles related to each portion of the Bucyrus distribution business to be sold will be  
    A-  97 

included in the disposal groups.  The disposal groups will be recorded at the lower of their carrying value or fair value less cost to sell.  In 2013 and 2012, we recorded asset impairment charges of   $11 million   and   $27 million   respectively, related to disposal groups being sold to Caterpillar dealers.  Fair value was determined based upon the negotiated sales price.  The impairments were recorded in Other operating (income) expenses and included in the Resource Industries segment.  The portions of the distribution business that were sold were not material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flow. 
    
  In 2013, we completed   19   sale transactions whereby we sold portions of the Bucyrus distribution business to Caterpillar dealers for an aggregate price of   $466 million  .  A portion of these transactions are subject to certain working capital adjustments.  For the full year 2013, after-tax profit was unfavorably impacted by   $39 million   as a result of the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities.  This is comprised of   $95 million   of income related to sales transactions, a   $34 million   unfavorable adjustment due to a change in estimate to increase the reserve for parts returns related to prior sale transactions (both included in Other operating (income) expenses), costs incurred related to the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities of   $104 million   (included in Selling, general and administrative expenses) and an income tax benefit of   $4 million  . 
     
  Assets sold in 2013 included customer relationship intangibles of   $127 million  , other assets of   $65 million  , which consisted primarily of inventory and fixed assets, and allocated goodwill of   $56 million   related to the divested portions of the Bucyrus distribution business. 
    
  As part of the 2013 divestitures, Cat Financial provided   $132 million   of financing to   five   of the Caterpillar dealers. 
    
  In 2012, we completed   12   sale transactions whereby we sold portions of the Bucyrus distribution business to Caterpillar dealers for an aggregate price of   $1,443 million  , which included   $38 million   of working capital adjustments paid throughout 2013.  For the full year 2012, after-tax profit was unfavorably impacted by   $28 million   as a result of the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities.  This is comprised of   $310 million   of income (included in Other operating (income) expenses) related to sales transactions, offset by costs incurred related to the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities of   $177 million   (included in Selling, general and administrative expenses) and income tax of   $161 million  . 
    
  Assets sold in 2012 included customer relationship intangibles of   $256 million  , other assets of   $254 million  , which consisted primarily of inventory and fixed assets, and allocated goodwill of   $405 million   related to the divested portions of the Bucyrus distribution business. 
    
  As part of the 2012 divestitures, Cat Financial provided   $739 million   of financing to   five   of the Caterpillar dealers.   
    
  In December 2011, we completed   one   sale transaction whereby we sold a portion of the Bucyrus distribution business to a Caterpillar dealer for   $337 million  , which includes a   $23 million   working capital adjustment paid in the third quarter of 2012.  After-tax profit was favorably impacted by   $9 million   in 2011 as a result of the Bucyrus distribution business divestiture activities. This is comprised of   $96 million   of income (included in Other operating (income) expenses) primarily related to the sale transaction, offset by costs incurred related to the Bucyrus distribution business divestiture activities of   $32 million   (included in Selling, general and administrative expenses) and income tax of   $55 million  .  Assets sold included customer relationship intangibles of   $63 million  , other assets of   $53 million  , which consisted primarily of inventory and fixed assets, and allocated goodwill of   $101 million  . 
    
  As of December 31, 2013,   ten   divestiture transactions were classified as held for sale and are expected to close in 2014.  Current assets held for sale were included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets and non-current assets held for sale were included in Other assets in Statement 3.   
    
  The major classes of assets held for sale for a portion of the Bucyrus distribution business were as follows: 
    
    A-  98 

Third Party Logistics Business Divestiture 
    
  On July 31, 2012, Platinum Equity acquired a   65 percent   equity interest in Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC, the third party logistics division of our wholly owned subsidiary, Caterpillar Logistics Inc., for   $567 million   subject to certain working capital adjustments.  The purchase price of   $567 million   was comprised of a   $107 million   equity contribution from Platinum Equity to, and third party debt raised by, Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC.  The sale of the third party logistics business supports Caterpillar's increased focus on the continuing growth opportunities in its core businesses.  Under the terms of the agreement, Caterpillar retained a   35 percent   equity interest.  
    
  As a result of the divestiture, we recorded a pretax gain of   $278 million   (included in Other operating (income) expenses).  In addition, we recognized   $8 million   of incremental incentive compensation expense.  The fair value of our retained noncontrolling interest was   $58 million  , as determined by the   $107 million   equity contribution from Platinum Equity, and was included in Investments in unconsolidated affiliated companies in Statement 3.  The disposal did not qualify as discontinued operations because Caterpillar has significant continuing involvement through its noncontrolling interest.  The financial impact of the disposal was reported in the All Other operating segment.  Results for our remaining interest will be recorded in Equity in profit (loss) of unconsolidated affiliated companies and are reported in the All Other operating segment.   
    
  The controlling financial interest in Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC was not material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flow.   
    
  Carter Machinery 
    
  In March 2011, we sold   100 percent   of the equity in Carter Machinery Company Inc. for   $364 million  .  Carter Machinery is a Caterpillar dealership headquartered in Salem, Virginia, and has operations and stores covering Virginia and   nine   counties in southeast West Virginia.  The current senior management of Carter Machinery, which led the buy-out of Carter Machinery from Caterpillar, remained in place.  A retired Caterpillar Vice President is now CEO and principal owner of Carter Machinery.  Caterpillar had owned Carter Machinery since 1988.  Carter Machinery was the only dealership in the United States that was not independently owned.  Continued Caterpillar ownership did not align with our comprehensive business strategy, resulting in the sale. 
    
  As part of the divestiture, Cat Financial provided   $348 million   of financing to the buyer.  The loan is included in Receivables   finance and Long-term receivables   finance in Statement 3.  We recorded a pre-tax gain of   $24 million   included in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1 and was reported in the All Other operating segment.  The sale did not qualify as discontinued operations because Caterpillar has significant continuing direct cash flows with Carter Machinery after the divestiture.  The sale of Carter Machinery was not material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flow. 
    
             27. 
    Restructuring costs 
       
  Restructuring costs for 2013, 2012, and 2011 were   $200 million  ,   $94 million   and   $112 million  , respectively, and were recognized in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1. The 2013 restructuring costs included   $151 million   of employee separation costs,   $41 million   of fixed asset impairments and   $8 million   of other restructuring costs.  The 2012 and 2011 costs were for employee separations.   
    
  The most significant charges in 2013 were for the restructuring of management and support functions and the closure or downsizing of several facilities related to our mining business which is included in the Resource Industries segment.  The  
    A-  99 

separation charges in 2012 were primarily in the Power Systems segment and were related to the closure of the Electro-Motive Diesel facility located in London, Ontario and separation programs in Europe. The separation charges in 2011 were primarily in the Resource Industries segment and were related to the acquisition of Bucyrus.  
    
  Our accounting for separations was dependent upon how the particular program was designed.  For voluntary programs, eligible separation costs were recognized at the time of employee acceptance.  For involuntary programs, eligible costs were recognized when management had approved the program, the affected employees had been properly notified and the costs were estimable. 
    
  The following table summarizes the   2011  ,   2012   and   2013   employee separation activity: 

The remaining liability balance as of   December 31, 2013   represents costs for employees that have either not yet separated from the Company or their full severance has not yet been paid.  The majority of these remaining costs are expected to be paid in   2014  . 
    
  In December 2013, we announced a restructuring plan for our Gosselies, Belgium facility. This restructuring plan is designed to improve the competitiveness of our European manufacturing footprint and achieve competitiveness in our European operations by refocusing our current Gosselies operations on final machine assembly, test and paint with limited component and fabrication operations. These actions will include reshaping our supply base for more efficient sourcing, improving factory efficiencies and workforce reductions. Our proposals were subject to Belgian Ministerial approval. We estimate the employee cash separation costs to be about   $300 million   before tax, which represents substantially all of the restructuring costs to be incurred under the plan. In February 2014, our proposals were approved by the Belgian Minister of Employment and we expect to recognize substantially all of these separation-related charges throughout 2014. 
    
    A-  100 

28. 
    Selected quarterly financial results (unaudited) 

1   
    Profit attributable to common stockholders. 
               2   
    Diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards using the treasury stock method. 
               3   
    See Note 24 - Acquisitions and Note 26 - Divestitures and Assets held for sale for additional information. 
               4   
    The fourth quarter 2012 includes a goodwill impairment charge related to Siwei of   $580 million  . 

In January 2014, we completed the current   $7.5 billion   stock repurchase program as we entered into a definitive agreement with Citibank, N.A. to purchase shares of our common stock under an accelerated stock repurchase transaction (January ASR Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the January ASR Agreement, we have agreed to repurchase approximately   $1.7 billion   of our common stock from Citibank, N.A., with an immediate delivery of approximately   17.7 million   shares.  The final number of shares to be repurchased and the aggregate cost to Caterpillar will be based on Caterpillar's volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, which is expected to be completed in March 2014. 
    
  In addition, in January 2014, the Board authorized the repurchase of   $10 billion   of Caterpillar stock, which will expire on December 31, 2018.   
    
    A-  101 

1   
    Computed on weighted-average number of shares outstanding. 
               2   
    Computed on weighted-average number of shares outstanding diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury stock method. 
               3   
    Represents profit divided by average stockholders  equity (beginning of year stockholders  equity plus end of year stockholders  equity divided by two). 
               4   
    Profit attributable to common stockholders. 

A-  102 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
    
  OVERVIEW 
    
  Our 2013 sales and revenues were $55.656 billion, a decrease of 16 percent from $65.875 billion in 2012.  Profit in 2013 was $3.789 billion, a decrease of 33 percent from $5.681 billion in 2012.  The 2013 profit per share was $5.75, down 32 percent from $8.48 in 2012. 
    
  Fourth-quarter 2013 sales and revenues were $14.402 billion, down $1.673 billion from $16.075 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Fourth-quarter 2013 profit was $1.003 billion compared with $697 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Profit was $1.54 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared with profit per share of $1.04 in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Fourth-quarter 2012 profit was negatively impacted by a goodwill impairment charge of $580 million, or $0.87 per share, related to   Siwei  , but was positively impacted by a tax settlement of $300 million, or $0.45 per share.    
    
  Highlights for 2013 include: 

Our largest segment,   Power Systems  , delivered profit near its 2012 record despite lower sales.  We also had a strong year in our   Financial Products segment  , which delivered a record profit in 2013.  
                
    Substantial actions to reduce costs resulted in a $731 million improvement from the combination of  lower SG A and R D expenses and   manufacturing costs  ,     or a $1.2 billion improvement excluding the impact of cost absorption from manufacturing costs. 
                
    Decremental operating profit pull through of 29 percent was indicative of strong operating performance. 
                
    We lowered Caterpillar inventory by $2.9 billion in 2013, and dealers lowered their inventories by more than $3 billion.   While these inventory reductions were a significant sales and production headwind for Caterpillar in 2013, we believe the significant impact on our sales is largely over.  
                  
    We repurchased $2 billion of Caterpillar stock and increased the quarterly dividend by 15 percent in 2013. 
       
  Restructuring Costs 
    
  In 2013, we turned our focus to structural cost reduction and worked on a large number of restructuring activities to help improve our long-term results.  We incurred about $200 million in restructuring charges in 2013.  We expect to take additional restructuring actions in 2014 and anticipate that these actions will result in charges of about $400 to $500 million.  About $300 million of these expected charges are attributable to restructuring our Gosselies, Belgium facility to reduce costs and improve competitiveness.  The remaining amount of about $100 to $200 million relates to a wide range of actions across the company that are part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure and improve the efficiency of our operations. 
    
  * Glossary of terms included on pages A-128 to A-129; first occurrence of terms shown in bold italics. 
    A-  103 

2013   COMPARED WITH   2012    
    
  CONSOLIDATED SALES AND REVENUES 
  
  The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales and Revenues between   2012   (at left) and   2013   (at right).  Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees. 
    
  Total sales and revenues were $55.656 billion in 2013, a decrease of $10.219 billion, or 16 percent, from 2012.  When reviewing the change in sales and revenues, we focus on the following perspectives: 
             
    Reasons for the change:    Sales volume   decreased $9.456 billion with the most significant decline in   Resource Industries  .  More than half of the total volume decrease was related to changes in dealer machine and engine inventories and the remainder was primarily due to lower dealer deliveries to end users, primarily in Resource Industries.  During 2012, dealers increased machine and engine inventories by about $1.6 billion.  During 2013, dealers reduced their machine and engine inventories by more than $3 billion.  Most of the change in both periods was in Resource Industries related to mining.  During 2012, dealers received products that they had previously ordered in anticipation of higher demand.  During 2013, most of the decline was related to dealers adjusting inventory levels in response to lower end-user demand resulting primarily from mining companies reducing their capital expenditures.  While these substantial dealer inventory reductions were unfavorable to sales in 2013, we believe the significant declines are largely over. 
     Dealers are independent, and there could be many reasons for changes in their inventory levels.  In general, dealers adjust inventory based on their expectations of future demand and product delivery times.  Dealers  demand expectations take into account seasonal changes, macroeconomic conditions and other factors.  Delivery times can vary based on availability of product from Caterpillar factories and product distribution centers.  In addition, during 2013 dealers utilized inventory from our product distribution centers at a higher rate to meet end-user demand, primarily for   Construction Industries    products. 
  In addition, the impact of   currency   was unfavorable $573 million primarily due to the weakening of the Japanese yen, as sales in yen translated into fewer U.S. dollars.  The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures was unfavorable $427 million mainly due to the absence of our third party logistics business.  These decreases were partially offset by increased Financial Products' revenues of $155 million and favorable   price realization   of $82 million. 
  While almost all of the decline in sales was related to new equipment, aftermarket parts sales declined slightly.  
             
    Sales by geographic region:  Sales declined in all geographic regions.  The decline in Asia/Pacific was primarily related to lower sales in Australia where the most significant decrease was in mining sales, due to continued low demand.  While sales in Asia/Pacific declined overall, sales in China increased as we focused on improving our competitive position through building out the Caterpillar business model, the key elements of which focus on increasing field population, improving customer loyalty and providing superior customer support in conjunction with our independent dealers.  Our total company sales and revenues  
       A-  104 

in China for 2013 were about $3.5 billion compared with about $2.9 billion for 2012, with the increase primarily in Construction Industries.  Sales were down in North America primarily due to lower end-user demand and changes in dealer inventories.  In   EAME  , the sales decline was primarily due to changes in dealer inventories and lower end-user demand.   In   Latin America  , the sales decline was primarily due to changes in dealer inventories, partially offset by increases in deliveries to end users. 
             
    Sales by segment:  Sales decreased in all segments.  The most significant decrease was in Resource Industries, with sales down 37 percent primarily from dealer inventory changes and weaker demand in mining as mining companies have reduced their capital expenditures.  Construction Industries' and Power Systems' sales decreased 5 percent.  Financial Products' segment revenues were up 4 percent. 
       
    CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT 
  
  The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit between   2012   (at left) and   2013   (at right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit     appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees.  The bar entitled Other includes   consolidating adjustments   and   Machinery and Power Systems other operating (income) expenses  . 
    
  Operating profit in 2013 was $5.628 billion compared with $8.573 billion in 2012, a 34 percent decrease.  The decrease was primarily the result of lower sales volume, which included about $750 million from an unfavorable mix of products.  The unfavorable mix was primarily due to a significant decline in sales of high margin mining products.  Acquisitions and divestitures were  also unfavorable to operating profit.   
  Acquisitions and divestitures negatively impacted operating profit by $581 million.  Over half of the impact was due to the absence of a gain from the sale of a majority interest in our external logistics business during the third quarter of 2012.  Additionally, 2012 included pre-tax gains on the sale of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business, while the impact on 2013 was negative.  The $135 million favorable impact from the settlement with the previous owners of our   Siwei   acquisition was about offset by other operating losses at Siwei. 
  These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by the absence of a goodwill impairment charge of $580 million related to Siwei, decreased SG A and R D expense, favorable currency impacts, increased Financial Products' profit of $242 million and lower manufacturing costs. 
  The decline in SG A and R D expenses was positive to operating profit by $564 million, primarily due to lower discretionary and program spending driven by cost reduction measures implemented in response to lower volumes and decreased incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher wage and benefit inflation. 
  Short-term incentive compensation expense related to 2013 was about $545 million, compared with about $825 million in 2012.     
  Currency favorably impacted operating profit by $390 million, mostly due to the Japanese yen.  We have a sizable manufacturing presence in Japan, and while some of this production is sold in Japan, we are a net exporter, and therefore, a weaker yen provides a cost benefit.  
    A-  105 

Manufacturing costs decreased $167 million.  The decrease was primarily due to lower material costs and $115 million ($0.12 per share) of   LIFO inventory decrement benefits  , partially offset by unfavorable changes in cost absorption resulting from a decrease in inventory during 2013 and an increase in inventory during 2012.   
  We reduced inventory both in the fourth quarter of 2012 and throughout 2013 primarily in Resource Industries and Construction Industries.  The groundwork for these reductions began in mid-2012 as order rates declined and actions were needed to bring inventory levels in line with expected demand. Based on dealers  expectation of future demand, macro-economic conditions and the amount of finished goods we had available in our product distribution centers, dealers also took action to lower their inventories. As a result, new orders from dealers declined sharply in the third quarter of 2012, and we began lowering production schedules and incoming material purchases from suppliers around the world. While production schedules began to decline in the third quarter of 2012, the most significant impacts on production and inventory, including rolling plant shutdowns at a number of facilities, occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 and continued throughout 2013. Although inventory continued to decrease during the fourth quarter of 2013, production levels increased in Construction Industries.  Overall, we believe current inventory and production levels are reasonably aligned with anticipated demand.  
  Excluding the impact of inventory cost absorption, manufacturing costs and SG A and R D expenses were favorable by $1.2 billion compared with 2012. 
    
  Other Profit/Loss Items 

Other income/expense   was expense of     $35 million compared with income of $130 million in  2012.  The change was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation and hedging gains and losses.    Translation and hedging losses in 2013 totaled $254 million, primarily due to translation losses.  Most of the impact in 2013 was a result of our net asset/liability positions and exchange rate movements and hedging, primarily for Japanese yen, Brazilian real and euro.  In  2012, we had translation and hedging losses of $116 million. 

The provision for income taxes   for 2013 reflects an effective tax rate of 28.5 percent compared with 30.5 percent for 2012, excluding the items discussed below.  The decrease is primarily due to a more favorable geographic mix of profits from a tax perspective along with the U.S. research and development tax credit that was expired in 2012. 
     The 2013 tax provision also included a benefit of $87 million primarily related to the research and development tax credit that was retroactively extended in 2013 for 2012 and a benefit of $55 million resulting from true-up of estimated amounts used in the tax provision to the 2012 U.S. tax return as filed in September 2013.  This compares to an $18 million net negative impact in 2012 related to a $300 million benefit from a tax settlement offset by the negative impact of goodwill not deductible for tax purposes of $318 million.     

A-  106 

Segment Information 

A-  107 

Construction Industries 
  Construction Industries' sales were $18.445 billion in 2013, a decrease of $889 million, or 5 percent, from 2012. Over half of the sales decrease was due to the unfavorable impact of currency primarily from a weaker Japanese yen, as sales in yen translated into fewer U.S. dollars.  In addition, volume was lower primarily from changes in dealer machine inventory. Dealer-reported machine inventory decreases were more significant in 2013 than they were in 2012. Throughout 2013 dealers utilized inventory from our product distribution centers at a higher rate to meet end-user demand.  We believe that the significant decreases in dealer inventory are largely over.  Although the worldwide construction industry is showing some signs of improvement and order rates are improving, it remains relatively depressed from a historical standpoint. 
  Most of the $139 million unfavorable impact from price realization was due to sales from a large government order in Brazil. We expect continuing machine sales in 2014 pursuant to an additional government order in Brazil, although not to the same extent as the current order. In addition, there was an unfavorable impact on price realization from a continued competitive pricing environment. The competitive pricing environment is attributable to a number of factors including excess industry capacity caused by weaker than expected economic conditions. Sales of new equipment declined, and sales of aftermarket parts were about flat. 
  Sales declined in EAME and Asia/Pacific and were about flat in North America and Latin America.  Sales in EAME were lower primarily due to changes in dealer inventory.  In addition, dealer deliveries to end users declined as construction activity in Europe remains low due to continued economic weakness. 
  In Asia/Pacific, higher sales in China were more than offset by negative currency impacts primarily from the weaker Japanese yen and lower sales in other countries due to slower economic growth. We believe higher sales in China, particularly with respect to hydraulic excavators, were due primarily to an increase in our competitive position through building out the Caterpillar business  
    A-  108 

model. In North America, unfavorable changes in dealer inventories were about offset by increased dealer deliveries to end users. The increase in end-user demand resulted primarily from an increase in construction-related spending in the United States. Although still below prior peaks, the housing industry has improved, and many state and local government budgets are showing signs of improvement which we expect to favorably impact construction spending. 
  Construction Industries' profit was $1.363 billion in 2013 compared with $1.789 billion in 2012. The decrease in profit was primarily due to lower sales volume, including an unfavorable mix of products, unfavorable price realization and increased manufacturing costs. The unfavorable mix of products is primarily attributable to relatively higher sales of small and mid-size machines which generally have lower margins than larger size machines which are also sold into mining applications. Higher manufacturing costs were driven primarily by unfavorable changes in cost absorption resulting from a decrease in inventory in 2013 and an increase in inventory during  2012, partially offset by lower material costs. 
    
  Resource Industries 
  Resource Industries' sales were $13.270 billion in 2013, a decrease of $7.888 billion, or 37 percent, from 2012, primarily due to changes in dealer machine inventory and lower deliveries to end users.  Although production of most mined commodities is near or above a year ago, after several years of increasing capital expenditures, mining customers in all geographic regions have reduced capital spending across the mining industry. We believe that mining companies are increasing productivity at existing mines rather than investing in expansions or new mine openings which results in lower demand for our mining products. As a result, end-user demand was lower, and new orders for mining equipment continued to be weak during 2013.    
  Dealers reduced machine inventory in 2013 to better align their inventory levels with expected demand. This compares with an increase in dealer machine inventory during 2012.  For 2014, we are expecting a modest decline in dealer inventory of mining machines. 
  Sales were lower in every region of the world due to both changes in dealer inventory and lower end-user demand.  The most significant decline was in Asia/Pacific, primarily due to lower mining sales in Australia. 
  Almost all of the sales decline was related to new equipment.  Aftermarket part sales also declined as some companies are delaying maintenance and rebuild activities. 
  Resource Industries' profit was $1.575 billion in 2013 compared with $4.318 billion in 2012.  Profit in 2012 included a $580 million goodwill impairment related to Siwei.  Excluding the impairment charge, operating profit declined $3.323 billion.  The decrease was primarily the result of lower sales volume, including an unfavorable mix of products, and the unfavorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures, partially offset by lower SG A and R D expenses. 
  Acquisitions and divestitures negatively impacted profit by $230 million.  Profit in 2012 included pre-tax gains on the sale of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business, while the impact in 2013 was negative. The $135 million favorable impact from the settlement with the previous owners of our Siwei acquisition was about offset by other operating losses at Siwei. 
  Decreases in SG A and R D expenses were driven by cost-reduction measures implemented in response to lower volumes. 
    
  Power Systems 
  Power Systems' sales were $20.155 billion in 2013, a decrease of $967 million, or 5 percent, compared with 2012.  The decrease was primarily the result of lower volume, primarily for electric power, petroleum and rail applications.  This was partially offset by higher price realization.    
  Sales declines in electric power applications were driven by dealers reducing their inventory levels in 2013, compared with dealers increasing inventory levels in 2012.  In addition, end-user demand for electric-power applications was lower.  The decline in petroleum application sales was due to decreases in dealer deliveries to end users primarily for drilling and well servicing due to an oversupply of equipment.  Sales into rail applications decreased primarily due to declines in services and lower sales of recyclable materials partially offset by higher locomotive sales as we continue to focus on increasing field population, improving customer loyalty and providing superior customer support.  Turbine-related sales, which are sold directly to end users and are not affected by dealer inventory, increased slightly primarily for petroleum production and gas compression applications due to continued strong demand for oil and natural gas. 
  Sales decreased in North America and EAME and were about flat in Latin America and Asia/Pacific. 
  In North America, the sales decrease was primarily due to declines in deliveries to end users with the largest decline in petroleum drilling and well servicing applications, partially offset by higher sales into gas compression applications. Sales into rail applications decreased primarily due to declines in services and lower sales of recyclable materials partially offset by higher locomotive sales. In addition, end-user demand for electric power applications declined. 
    A-  109 

In EAME, the sales decrease was largely due to the impact of dealer inventory changes for electric power applications. During 2012, dealers increased inventories in anticipation of higher demand and reduced their inventories during in 2013. 
  Power Systems' profit was $3.400 billion in 2013, about the same as 2012, despite the decline in sales volume. The impact from lower sales volume was about offset by decreased costs and favorable price realization.  Costs were lower primarily due to favorable material and program-related costs and lower incentive compensation expense. 
    
  Financial Products Segment 
  Financial Products  revenues were $3.224 billion, an increase of $134 million, or 4 percent, from 2012. The increase was primarily due to the favorable impact from higher average   earning assets   across all geographic regions and an increase in Insurance Services' revenues, primarily in North America.  These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact from lower average financing rates on new and existing finance receivables and operating leases across all geographic regions. 
  Financial Products  profit of $990 million was up $227 million from 2012.  The increase was primarily due to a $97 million favorable impact from higher average earning assets, an $85 million favorable impact from lower claims experience at Insurance Services and a $67 million decrease in the provision for credit losses at Cat Financial. 
    
  All Other Segment 
  All Other Segment includes groups that provide services such as component manufacturing, remanufacturing and logistics.   
  The decrease in sales of $615 million was primarily due to the absence of our third party logistics business, which was sold in the third quarter of 2012.  Lower profit of $351 million was primarily due to the absence of the gain on the sale of our third party logistics business. 
    
  Corporate Items and Eliminations 
  Expense for corporate items and eliminations was $2.093 billion in 2013, a decrease of $370 million from 2012.  Corporate items and eliminations include: corporate-level expenses; timing differences, as some expenses are reported in segment profit on a cash basis; retirement benefit costs other than service cost; currency differences for M PS, as segment profit is reported using annual fixed exchange rates; and inter-segment eliminations.   
  The decrease in expense from 2012 was primarily due to timing differences, lower corporate level expenses and LIFO inventory decrement benefits of $115 million, partially offset by methodology differences. 
    A-  110 

FOURTH QUARTER   2013   COMPARED WITH FOURTH QUARTER   2012    
    
  CONSOLIDATED SALES AND REVENUES  
  The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales and Revenues between the fourth quarter of   2012   (at left) and the fourth quarter of   2013   (at right).  Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees. 
    
  Total sales and revenues were $14.402 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, a decrease of $1.673 billion, or 10 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2012.  When reviewing the change in sales and revenues, we focus on the following perspectives:  
             
    Reason for the change: Sales volume decreased $1.511 billion due to lower volume in Resource Industries, partially offset by increased volume in Construction Industries and Power Systems.  The volume decrease was primarily the result of lower end-user demand, with the largest impact in mining primarily due to mining customers reducing their capital expenditures.  Overall, the change in dealer machine and engine inventories did not have a significant impact on total sales volume. 
     Dealers are independent, and there could be many reasons for changes in their inventory levels.  In general, dealers adjust inventory based on their expectations of future demand and product delivery times.  Dealers  demand expectations take into account seasonal changes, macroeconomic conditions and other factors.  Delivery times can vary based on availability of product from Caterpillar factories and product distribution centers.  In addition, during 2013 dealers utilized inventory from our product distribution centers at a higher rate to meet end-user demand, primarily for Construction Industries  products. 
  In addition, currency was unfavorable $174 million primarily due to the weaker Japanese yen, as sales in yen translated into fewer U.S. dollars.   
  While almost all of the decline in sales was related to new equipment, aftermarket parts sales declined slightly. 

Sales by geographic region: Sales declined in all geographic regions except North America.  Asia/Pacific declined 30 percent primarily related to lower sales in Australia where the most significant decrease was in mining sales, due to continued low demand.  While sales in Asia/Pacific declined overall, sales in China, primarily in Construction Industries, increased more than 20 percent due to favorable impacts of dealer inventory changes and increased dealer deliveries to end users.  Sales declined 20 percent in Latin America primarily due to unfavorable changes in dealer inventories of mining equipment as dealers took actions to better align inventory levels with demand.  In EAME, lower sales were primarily the result of decreased dealer deliveries to end users, primarily due to lower mining demand.  In North America, sales increased 6 percent primarily due to favorable impacts of dealer inventory changes for construction equipment and engines. 

Sales by segment: Sales decreases in Resource Industries were partially offset by increases in Construction Industries and Power Systems.  Resource Industries  sales declined 48 percent resulting primarily from weaker demand for mining products as mining companies have reduced their capital expenditures as well as unfavorable changes in dealer inventories.  Construction  
       A-  111 

Industries  sales increased 20 percent primarily due to favorable changes in dealer inventories and higher end-user demand.  Power Systems  sales were 5 percent higher.  Financial Products segment     revenues were up 3 percent. 
    
    CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT 
  
  The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit between the fourth quarter of   2012   (at left) and the fourth quarter of   2013   (at right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit     appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees.  The bar entitled Other includes consolidating adjustments and Machinery and Power Systems other operating (income) expenses. 
    
  Operating profit for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $1.452 billion, an increase of $414 million from the fourth quarter of 2012.  The increase was primarily the result of the absence of a goodwill impairment charge of $580 million related to Siwei from the fourth quarter of 2012, lower manufacturing costs, decreased SG A and R D expenses and the favorable impact of currency.  These favorable impacts were partially offset by lower sales volume, which included an unfavorable mix of products.  The unfavorable mix was primarily due to a significant decline in Resource Industries  sales and an increase in Construction Industries  sales, which traditionally have lower margins.  Acquisitions and divestitures negatively impacted operating profit by $120 million due to lower pre-tax gains on the sale of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared with the fourth quarter of 2012 and Siwei operating losses in the fourth quarter of 2013.   
  Manufacturing costs decreased $480 million.  The decrease was primarily due to favorable changes in cost absorption resulting from a smaller decrease in inventory during the fourth quarter of 2013 than in the fourth quarter of 2012, lower material costs and LIFO inventory decrement benefits of $115 million. 
  Decreases in SG A and R D expenses were primarily due to lower discretionary and program spending driven by cost reduction measures implemented in response to lower volumes.   
  The favorable impact of currency was mostly due to the Japanese yen.  We have a sizeable manufacturing presence in Japan, and while some of this production is sold in Japan, we are a net exporter, and therefore, a weaker yen provides a cost benefit.   
  In the fourth quarter of 2013, we incurred $130 million of restructuring costs primarily in Resource Industries and recognized a gain on a legal settlement of $68 million.  Both of these items are included in Other operating (income) expenses. 
    
  Other Profit/Loss Items  
             
    Other income/expense   was income of     $44 million compared with expense of $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The change was primarily due to the net impact from currency translation and hedging.  Although both periods included unfavorable impacts from currency translation and hedging, losses were more significant in the fourth quarter of 2012 than in the fourth quarter of 2013. 
       
    A-  112 

The provision for income taxes   in the fourth quarter of 2013 reflects an effective tax rate of 28.5 percent compared with 30.5 percent for 2012, excluding the items discussed below.  The decrease is primarily due to a more favorable geographic mix of profits from a tax perspective along with the U.S. research and development tax credit that was expired in 2012 and retroactively extended in 2013. 
     The 2013 fourth-quarter tax provision also included a $19 million benefit related to a decrease from the third-quarter estimated annual effective tax rate of 29 percent.  This compares to a $63 million net benefit in the fourth quarter of 2012 related to a $300 million benefit from a tax settlement offset by the negative impact of goodwill not deductible for tax purposes of $237 million. 
    
  Segment Information 

A-  113 

Construction Industries 
  Construction Industries  sales were $4.851 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, an increase of $823 million, or 20 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2012.  The sales increase was due to higher sales volume, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency and price realization.  Sales of new equipment increased, and sales of aftermarket parts were about flat.   
             
    The increase in sales volume was primarily related to changes in dealer inventories as the decline in dealer inventories was significantly greater in the fourth quarter of 2012 than in the fourth quarter of 2013.  Additionally, deliveries to end users increased in Latin America, Asia/Pacific and North America.  
                
    The unfavorable currency impact was primarily from a weaker Japanese yen, as sales in yen translated into fewer U.S. dollars. 
                
    Price realization was unfavorable primarily due to continuing sales from a large government order in Brazil and a continued competitive pricing environment.  
     Sales increased in all geographic regions. 
             
    In North America, higher sales were primarily due to the favorable impact of dealer inventory changes, as dealers decreased inventory more in the fourth quarter of 2012 than in the fourth quarter of 2013.  The remaining sales increase was primarily due to higher end-user demand resulting from an increase in construction-related spending in the United States.  Although still below prior peaks, construction-related spending continues to improve.  The increase was partially offset by unfavorable price realization due to a continued competitive pricing environment. 
                
    In Asia/Pacific, the sales increase was primarily in China due to both favorable impacts of dealer inventory changes and increased dealer deliveries to end users as we focused on improving our competitive position through building out the  
       A-  114 

Caterpillar business model, the key elements of which focus on increasing field population, improving customer loyalty and providing superior customer support in conjunction with our independent dealers.  In addition, price realization was favorable.  These items were partially offset by negative currency impacts primarily from the weaker Japanese yen. 
             
    In EAME, higher sales were primarily due to the favorable impact of dealer inventory changes, as dealers decreased inventory more in the fourth quarter of 2012 than in the fourth quarter of 2013.  This was partially offset by unfavorable price realization due to a continued competitive pricing environment.  Dealer deliveries to end users were about flat. 
                
    The increase in Latin America was primarily due to continuing sales from a large government order in Brazil. 
       
  Construction Industries  profit was $500 million in the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with $26 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The increase in profit was primarily due to higher sales volume and favorable manufacturing costs, partially offset by unfavorable price realization.  Manufacturing costs improved primarily due to favorable changes in cost absorption resulting from the absence of the large decrease in inventory during the fourth quarter of 2012.  After significant changes in inventory in 2012 and 2013, we believe current inventory and production levels are reasonably aligned with anticipated demand.  In addition, profit was favorably impacted by lower material and freight costs. 
    
  Resource Industries 
  Resource Industries  sales were $3.019 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, a decrease of $2.757 billion, or 48 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2012, nearly all from lower sales volume.  More than half of the sales volume decline was due to lower end-user demand across all geographic regions.  Sales volume also declined as a result of unfavorable changes in dealer machine inventory across all regions.  Dealers continued to significantly reduce machine inventory during the fourth quarter of 2013 to better align inventory levels with demand.  This compares with an increase in dealer machine inventory during the fourth quarter of 2012.  Although production of most mined commodities is at levels near or above a year ago, after several years of increasing capital expenditures customers in all geographic regions have reduced spending across the mining industry.  As a result, we believe that mining companies are increasing productivity at existing mines rather than investing in expansions or new mine openings, which results in lower demand for our mining products, and new orders for mining equipment continued to be weak in the quarter. 
  Almost the entire sales decline was related to new equipment.      Aftermarket part sales also declined as we believe some companies are delaying maintenance and rebuild activities. 
  Sales were lower in every region of the world due to both changes in dealer inventory and lower end-user demand.  The most significant decline was in Asia/Pacific, primarily due to lower mining sales in Australia. 
  Resource Industries  profit was $139 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared with $611 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The fourth quarter of 2012 included a $580 million goodwill impairment related to Siwei.  Excluding this impairment charge related to Siwei, operating profit declined $1.052 billion.  The decrease was primarily the result of lower sales volume.  Acquisitions and divestitures negatively impacted operating profit by $121 million due to lower pre-tax gains on the sale of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared with the fourth quarter 2012 and Siwei operating losses in the fourth quarter of 2013.  Restructuring costs of about $90 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 also lowered profit.  These negative factors were partially offset by lower SG A and R D expenses and an improvement in manufacturing costs.  
  SG A and R D expenses were lower primarily due to decreased spending for new product introduction programs and other cost cutting measures implemented in response to lower volumes.  Incentive compensation expense was also lower.  
  The decrease in manufacturing costs was primarily driven by lower material costs, favorable changes in cost absorption resulting from a significantly larger decrease in inventory during the fourth quarter of 2012 than in the fourth quarter of 2013, and cost cutting measures. 
    
  Power Systems 
  Power Systems  sales were $5.565 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, an increase of $258 million, or 5 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2012.  The increase in sales was primarily a result of favorable changes in dealer inventories.  Dealer engine inventory increased in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared with a decrease during the fourth quarter of 2012.  Overall end-user demand was down slightly with lower demand for electric power applications partially offset by increased demand for industrial engines.      
  Sales increased in all regions except Asia/Pacific.   
             
    In North America, the sales increase was primarily due to favorable changes in dealer inventories for nearly all applications.  In addition, locomotive sales were higher as we continue to focus on increasing field population, improving customer loyalty and providing superior customer support.  These increases were partially offset by weaker end-user demand for electric power applications. 
       A-  115 

Sales in EAME were relatively flat with the fourth quarter of 2012 with stronger demand for industrial engines used in agriculture equipment and third party generator set packages, partially offset by lower demand for electric power applications and locomotives due to weak economic conditions.   
                
    In Latin America, sales were relatively flat with fourth quarter of 2012. 
                
    In Asia/Pacific, the decline in sales was primarily due to lower sales into petroleum and electric power applications resulting primarily from timing of large projects. 
     Power Systems  profit was $964 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared with $697 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The increase was primarily due to lower manufacturing costs, higher sales volume and favorable price realization.  The decrease in manufacturing costs was primarily driven by lower material and freight costs. 
    
  Financial Products Segment 
  Financial Products  revenues were $816 million, an increase of $27 million, or 3 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2012.  The increase was primarily due to the favorable impact from higher average earning assets across all geographic regions except Asia/Pacific. 
  Financial Products  profit was $266 million in the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with $180 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The increase was primarily due to a $61 million decrease in the provision for credit losses at Cat Financial, and a $16 million favorable impact from currency gains and losses.  
  At the end of 2013, past dues at Cat Financial were 2.37 percent compared with 2.45 percent at the end of the third quarter of 2013 and 2.26 percent at the end of 2012.  Write-offs, net of recoveries, were $123 million for the full-year 2013, compared with $102 million for 2012.  The increase in write-offs was primarily related to Cat Financial's European marine portfolio and was previously provided for in the allowance for credit losses. 
  As of December 31, 2013, Cat Financial's allowance for credit losses totaled $378 million or 1.30 percent of net finance receivables, compared with $426 million or 1.49 percent of net finance receivables at year-end 2012. 
    
  Corporate Items and Eliminations 
  Expense for corporate items and eliminations was $465 million in the fourth quarter of 2013, a decrease of $67 million from the fourth quarter of 2012.  Corporate items and eliminations include: corporate-level expenses; timing differences, as some expenses  are reported in segment profit on a cash basis; retirement benefit costs other than service cost; currency differences for M PS, as segment profit is reported using annual fixed exchange rates; and inter-segment eliminations. 
  The decrease in expense from the fourth quarter of 2012 was primarily due to LIFO inventory decrement benefits of $115 million, lower corporate level expenses and the favorable impact from a legal settlement of $68 million, partially offset by methodology and timing differences. 
    A-  116 

2012   COMPARED WITH   2011    
    
  CONSOLIDATED SALES AND REVENUES 

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Sales and Revenues between   2011   (at left) and   2012   (at right).  Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company's Board of Directors and employees. 
    
  Total sales and revenues were $65.875 billion in 2012, an increase of $5.737 billion, or 10 percent, from 2011.  When reviewing the change in sales and revenues, we focus on the following perspectives: 
             
    Reason for the change:  The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures added $2.668 billion, sales volume improved $2.059 billion, price realization was favorable $1.531 billion and Financial Products revenues were up $61 million.  Currency partially offset these increases by $582 million.  While sales of both new equipment and aftermarket parts increased, the more significant increase was new equipment. 
                
    Sales by geographic region:  Excluding acquisitions and divestitures, sales increased in all geographic regions except Latin America, with the most significant improvement in North America.  The sales increase in North America was driven by improvements in the United States.  Within Asia/Pacific, increases in Australia and other parts of Asia/Pacific more than offset a decrease in China.  Within EAME, increased sales in Africa, the Middle East and CIS were partially offset by lower sales in Europe. 
                
    Segment:  Excluding acquisitions and divestitures, the sales increase was primarily due to Resource Industries, with sales up 24 percent from 2011.  Sales for both Construction Industries and Power Systems were about flat.   
       A-  117 

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT 

The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated Operating Profit between   2011   (at left) and   2012   (at right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company s Board of Directors and employees.  The bar entitled Other includes     consolidating adjustments     and     Machinery and Power Systems other operating (income) expenses. 
    
  Operating profit in 2012 was $8.573 billion compared with $7.153 billion in 2011.  The increase was primarily the result of improved price realization and higher sales volume, which included the impact of a favorable mix of products.  Acquisitions and divestitures favorably impacted operating profit by $674 million, primarily related to Bucyrus and the sale of a majority interest in Caterpillar's third party logistics business. 
  The improvements were partially offset by higher manufacturing costs, a goodwill impairment charge related to Siwei and increased selling, general and administrative (SG A) and research and development (R D) expenses.  Manufacturing costs were up $1.138 billion primarily due to capacity expansion programs, inefficiencies driven by lower production and declining inventory in the fourth quarter of 2012 and increased wages and benefits and freight costs.  These increases were partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense.  SG A and R D expenses increased $308 million primarily due to growth-related initiatives, increased costs to support product programs and wage and benefit inflation, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense. 
  Short-term incentive compensation was about $825 million for 2012 compared with $1.2 billion in 2011. 
  The amount of incremental operating profit we earn on incremental sales and revenues is an important performance metric. Sales and revenues increased $5.737 billion from 2011, and operating profit increased $1.420 billion. The resulting incremental operating profit rate is 25 percent.  Excluding acquisitions and divestitures, incremental operating profit was about 43 percent.  Excluding acquisitions, divestitures and currency impacts, incremental margin was about 33 percent.  
    
  Other Profit/Loss Items  

Interest expense excluding Financial Products   increased $71 million from 2011, due to long-term debt issued in 2011 relating to the acquisition of Bucyrus and underwriting expense related to our debt exchange in the third quarter of 2012. 
                
    Other income/expense   was income of $130 million compared with expense of $32 million in 2011.  The change was primarily due to the absence of losses on interest rate swaps and credit facility fees associated with the debt issuance for the Bucyrus acquisition in 2011, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency gains and losses. 
                
    The provision for income taxes   for 2012 reflects an effective tax rate of 30.5 percent compared with 26.5 percent for 2011, excluding the items discussed below.  The increase from 26.5 percent to 30.5 percent is primarily due to changes in our geographic mix of profits from a tax perspective and the expiration of the U.S. research and development tax credit.  While  
       A-  118 

the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 extended this credit, the related benefit will be reported in 2013 due to the law's enactment in January of 2013. 
  The 2012 tax provision includes a benefit of $300 million from a decrease in tax and interest reserves due to a settlement reached with the Internal Revenue Service related to 2000 to 2006 U.S. tax returns.  Approximately $200 million of this benefit is related to tax and $100 million is related to interest.  This was offset by a negative impact of $318 million from goodwill not deductible for tax purposes related to the Siwei goodwill impairment and the divestiture of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business.  This compared to a $63 million net benefit in 2011 due to repatriation of non-U.S. earnings and a release of a valuation allowance offset by an increase in prior year unrecognized tax benefits and a negative impact from nondeductible goodwill primarily related to the divestiture of a portion of the Bucyrus distribution business. 
    
  Segment Information 

A-  119 

Construction Industries 
  Construction Industries' sales were $19.334 billion in 2012, a decrease of $333 million, or 2 percent, from 2011.  Sales decreased in all geographic regions except North America.  New equipment sales declined and sales of aftermarket parts were about flat.   
  Construction Industries' sales were lower in Asia/Pacific, where a large decrease in China more than offset increases in Japan and other Asia/Pacific countries.  China's austerity policies caused machine demand to peak in the first half of 2011, making the first half of 2011 in China a strong sales period. 
  Lower sales in Latin America were a result of changes in dealer inventory, as dealer inventory increased in 2011 and declined in 2012. 
  Higher sales in North America were driven by increased dealer deliveries to end users resulting from improvements in construction activity. 
  Construction Industries' profit was $1.789 billion in 2012 compared with $2.056 billion in 2011.  Currency was unfavorable primarily because segment profit for 2012 was based on fixed exchange rates set at the beginning of 2012, while segment profit for 2011 was based on fixed exchange rates set at the beginning of 2011.  Excluding the impacts of currency, Construction Industries' profit was about flat.  Higher manufacturing costs were about offset by favorable price realization. 
    A-  120 

Resource Industries 
  Resource Industries' sales were $21.158 billion in 2012, an increase of $5.529 billion, or 35 percent, from 2011.  The sales increase was a result of higher volume in all regions of the world, the acquisition of Bucyrus and favorable price realization.  New equipment sales accounted for the majority of the increase, while sales for aftermarket parts improved slightly. 
  Over the past two years we have added capacity for mining products to better align production with expected demand.  As a result of the increase in production capability, coupled with our existing mining order backlog, sales were higher than 2011.  While sales were up in 2012 compared with 2011, new orders declined significantly.  Slow global growth and lower commodity prices resulted in some reductions, delays and cancellation of orders for mining products.   
  Bucyrus, which was acquired on July 8, 2011, had sales in 2012 of $4.758 billion, with $1.283 billion in North America, $660 million in Latin America, $915 million in EAME and $1.900 billion in Asia/Pacific. 
  Resource Industries' profit was $4.318 billion in 2012 compared with $3.334 billion in 2011.   
  Resource Industries' profit increased primarily due to higher sales volume, improved price realization and the impact of Bucyrus.  These improvements were partially offset by higher manufacturing costs primarily driven by higher production volume and a goodwill impairment charge related to Siwei of $580 million. 
  Power Systems 
  Power Systems' sales were $21.122 billion in 2012, an increase of $1.008 billion, or 5 percent, from 2011.  The improvement was a result of the MWM Holding GmbH (MWM) acquisition, improved price realization and increased volume, partially offset by the impact of currency.  Excluding acquisitions, sales were up in Asia/Pacific and North America and were down in Latin America and EAME. 
  Excluding acquisitions, demand for energy resulted in higher sales of engines and turbines for petroleum applications in Asia/Pacific.  Sales of our rail products and services, primarily locomotives, increased due to higher demand.  These increases were partially offset by lower sales for industrial and electric power generation due to lower end-user demand. 
    
  Power Systems' profit was $3.434 billion in 2012 compared with $3.053 billion in 2011.  The improvement was primarily due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, which included the impact of a favorable mix of products.  The improvements were partially offset by higher manufacturing costs and SG A and R D expenses. 
  MWM, acquired during the fourth quarter of 2011, added sales of $609 million, primarily in EAME, and increased segment profit by $53 million. 
  Financial Products Segment 
  Financial Products' revenues were $3.090 billion, an increase of $87 million, or 3 percent, from 2011.  The increase was primarily due to the favorable impact from higher average earning assets and an increase in Insurance Services revenues.  These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact from lower average financing rates on new and existing finance receivables and operating leases and an unfavorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment. 
  Financial Products' profit of $763 million was up $176 million from 2011.  The increase was primarily due to an $89 million favorable impact from higher average earning assets and an $87 million favorable impact from lower claims experience at Insurance Services.  These increases were partially offset by a $33 million unfavorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment.  
  During 2012, Cat Financial's overall portfolio quality reflected continued improvement. At the end of 2012, past dues at Cat Financial were 2.26 percent compared with 2.80 percent at the end of the third quarter of 2012 and 2.89 percent at the end of 2011.  Write-offs, net of recoveries, were $102 million for the full-year 2012, down from $158 million for 2011.   
  As of December 31, 2012, Cat Financial's allowance for credit losses totaled $426 million or 1.49 percent of net finance receivables, compared with $369 million or 1.47 percent of net finance receivables at year-end 2011.   
  All Other Segment 
  All Other segment includes groups that provide services such as component manufacturing, remanufacturing and logistics.  The increase in profit from 2011 was due to the gain from the third-quarter 2012 sale of a majority interest in our third party logistics business. 
  Corporate Items and Eliminations 
  Expense for corporate items and eliminations was $2.463 billion in 2012, about flat with 2011.  Corporate items and eliminations include: corporate-level expenses; timing differences, as some expenses are reported in segment profit on a cash basis; retirement benefit costs other than service cost; currency differences, as segment profit is reported using annual fixed exchange rates; and inter-segment eliminations.   
    A-  121 

Corporate-level expenses and expense from timing and other methodology differences increased compared to 2011. These items were about offset by favorable currency differences. Segment profit for 2012 is based on fixed exchange rates set at the beginning of 2012, while segment profit for 2011 is based on fixed exchange rates set at the beginning of 2011. The difference in actual exchange rates compared with fixed exchange rates is included in corporate items and eliminations and is not reflected in segment profit.   
    
    RESTRUCTURING COSTS 
    
  Restructuring costs for 2013, 2012, and 2011 were $200 million, $94 million and $112 million, respectively. The 2013 restructuring costs included $151 million of employee separation costs, $41 million of fixed asset impairments and $8 million of other restructuring costs.  The 2012 and 2011 costs were for employee separations.   
    
  The most significant charges in 2013 were for the restructuring of management and support functions and the closure or downsizing of several facilities related to our mining business which is included in the Resource Industries segment.  The separation charges in 2012 were primarily in the Power Systems segment and were related to the closure of the Electro-Motive Diesel facility located in London, Ontario and separation programs in Europe. The separation charges in 2011 were primarily in the Resource Industries segment and were related to the acquisition of Bucyrus.  
    
  The following table summarizes the   2011  ,   2012   and   2013   employee separation activity: 

The remaining liability balance as of   December 31, 2013   represents costs for employees that have either not yet separated from the Company or their full severance has not yet been paid.  The majority of these remaining costs are expected to be paid in   2014  . 
    
  We expect to incur restructuring costs of about $400 to $500 million, or $0.50 to $0.60 per share during 2014.  The charges are primarily related to employee cash separation costs.   
    
  The most significant item is the restructuring of our Gosselies, Belgium, facility (part of our Construction Industries segment) that we announced on December 23, 2013.  This restructuring plan is designed to improve the competitiveness of our European manufacturing footprint and achieve competitiveness in our European operations by refocusing our current Gosselies operations on final machine assembly, test and paint with limited component and fabrication operations.  These actions will include reshaping our supply base for more efficient sourcing, improving factory efficiencies and workforce reductions.  Our proposals were subject to Belgian Ministerial approval.  We estimate the employee cash separation costs to be about $300 million before tax, which represents substantially all of the restructuring costs to be incurred under the plan.  In February 2014, our proposals were approved by the Belgian Minister of Employment and we expect to recognize substantially all of these separation-related charges throughout 2014. 
    
  The remaining restructuring costs of about $100 to $200 million are related to a wide range of actions under consideration across the company that are part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure and improve the efficiency of our operations.  
    
  We expect that the actions taken in 2013 and anticipated in 2014 to have a favorable impact on costs (not including the restructuring costs) of about $200 million in 2014 and about $400 to $500 million per year after 2015.  The most significant reason the 2014 impact is lower than the impact after 2015 is the timeframe involved in implementing the program in Gosselies, Belgium.  It is an extensive program that will take several years to complete.  In addition, many of the actions we are expecting to take in 2014  
    A-  122 

will occur over the course of the year and, as a result, we are expecting partial year benefits. About 75 percent of the expected benefit in 2014 is related to the Resource Industries segment, primarily from actions taken in 2013. 
    
    ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 
     
  ERA Mining Machinery Limited (Siwei) 
    
  During the second quarter of 2012, Caterpillar, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Caterpillar (Luxembourg) Investment Co. S.A. (CAT Lux), completed a tender offer to acquire the issued shares of ERA Mining Machinery Limited (Siwei), including its wholly-owned subsidiary Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical Manufacturing Co., Ltd.  In the fourth quarter 2013, Siwei was renamed Caterpillar (Zhengzhou) Ltd.  Substantially all of the issued shares of Siwei, a public company listed on the Hong Kong Exchange, were acquired at the end of May 2012.  In October 2012, the remaining shares of Siwei common stock were acquired for approximately   $7 million   in cash.  Siwei primarily designs, manufactures, sells and supports underground coal mining equipment in mainland China and is known for its expertise in manufacturing mining roof support equipment.  The acquisition supports Caterpillar's long-term commitment to invest in China in order to support our growing base of Chinese customers and will further expand our underground mining business both inside and outside of China.   
    
  The tender offer allowed Siwei shareholders to choose between   two   types of consideration in exchange for their shares.  The alternatives were either cash consideration of HK  $0.88   or a HK  $1.00   loan note issued by CAT Lux to the former shareholders of Siwei that provided, subject to its terms, for the holder to receive on redemption a minimum of HK  $0.75   up to a maximum of HK  $1.15   depending on Siwei's consolidated gross profit for 2012 and 2013.  Approximately   4 billion   Siwei shares were tendered for the cash alternative and approximately   1.6 billion   Siwei shares were tendered for the loan note alternative.  The purchase price of approximately   $677 million   was comprised of net cash paid of approximately   $444 million   (  $475 million   in cash paid for shares and to cancel share options less cash acquired of   $31 million  ), the fair value of the loan notes of   $152 million  , approximately   $168 million   of assumed third-party short term borrowings and notes payable, a loan and interest payable to Caterpillar from Siwei of   $51 million  , less restricted cash acquired of approximately   $138 million  .  The noncontrolling interest for the outstanding shares not tendered was approximately   $7 million  . 
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash and included the issuance of loan notes to certain former shareholders of Siwei, which had a debt component and a portion that was contingent consideration.  The   $152 million   fair value represented the minimum redemption amount of the debt component payable in April 2013.   
    
  Tangible assets as of the acquisition date and after giving effect to the adjustments described below were   $598 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included cash of   $31 million  , restricted cash of   $138 million  , receivables of   $184 million  , inventories of   $77 million   and property, plant and equipment of   $94 million  . Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of   $112 million   were primarily related to customer relationships and also included trade names. The finite-lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted average amortization period of approximately   14 years  .  Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date and after giving effect to the adjustments described below were   $626 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included accounts payable of   $352 million  , third-party short term borrowings and notes payable of   $168 million   and accrued expenses of   $37 million  .  Additionally, deferred tax liabilities were   $25 million  . Goodwill of   $625 million  , substantially all of which is non-deductible for income tax purposes, represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represented the estimated future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill will not be amortized, but will be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill include expected cost savings primarily from increased purchasing power for raw materials, improved working capital management, expanded underground mining equipment sales opportunities in China and internationally, along with the acquired assembled workforce.  The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Resource Industries segment.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results. 
    
  In November 2012, Caterpillar became aware of inventory accounting discrepancies at Siwei which led to an internal investigation.  Caterpillar's investigation determined that Siwei had engaged in accounting misconduct prior to Caterpillar's acquisition of Siwei in mid-2012.  The accounting misconduct included inappropriate accounting practices involving improper cost allocation that resulted in overstated profit and improper revenue recognition practices involving early and, at times unsupported, revenue recognition.  Due to the identified accounting misconduct that occurred before the acquisition, measurement period adjustments were made to the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities during the fourth quarter of 2012.  The fair values presented above are a final allocation of the purchase price and reflect these changes, which are primarily comprised of a decrease in finite-lived intangible assets of   $82 million  , a decrease in receivables of   $29 million  , a decrease in inventory of   $17 million   and a net increase in liabilities of   $23 million  , resulting in an increase in goodwill of   $149 million  .  
    A-  123 

Because of the accounting misconduct identified in the fourth quarter of 2012, Siwei's goodwill was tested for impairment as of November 30, 2012.  We determined the carrying value of Siwei, which is a separate reporting unit, exceeded its fair value at the measurement date, requiring step two in the impairment test process.  The fair value of the Siwei reporting unit was determined primarily using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows. We assigned the fair value to the reporting unit's assets and liabilities and determined the implied fair value of goodwill was substantially below the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill.  Accordingly, we recognized a   $580 million   goodwill impairment charge, which resulted in goodwill of approximately   $45 million   remaining for Siwei.  The goodwill impairment was a result of changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value resulting from the accounting misconduct that occurred before the acquisition.  There was no tax benefit associated with this impairment charge.  The Siwei goodwill impairment charge was reported in the fourth quarter of 2012 in the Resource Industries segment. 
    
  In May 2013, Caterpillar and its wholly-owned subsidiaries CAT Lux and Siwei entered into a settlement agreement with   two   former directors of Siwei and   two   other parties with an interest in the settlement, including Mining Machinery Limited (MML).  The agreement settles the dispute between the parties which arose from Caterpillar's determination that Siwei senior managers had engaged in accounting misconduct for several years prior to Caterpillar's announcement of the completion of its tender offer for Siwei in the second quarter of 2012. 
    
  Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the parties agreed that (i) the loan notes issued by CAT Lux (and guaranteed by Caterpillar) as a portion of the Siwei purchase price and held by MML and (ii) loans made by the   two   former Siwei directors to Siwei prior to its acquisition by Caterpillar would all be canceled and discharged in exchange for payments by CAT Lux to MML and the   two   former directors in an aggregate amount of approximately   $30 million  .  As of the settlement in May 2013, the loan notes had a book value of approximately   $152 million   and the obligation related to the loans by the   two   former directors was approximately   $13 million  .  The settlement agreement contains a mutual release and discharge of the parties' respective claims with respect to the dispute and contains an agreement by Caterpillar and CAT Lux not to pursue any such claims against either the auditors or former directors of Siwei.  The settlement and discharge of the loan obligations resulted in the recognition of a gain of approximately   $135 million   reported in Other operating (income) expenses in and is included in the Resource Industries segment.  
    
  MWM Holding GmbH (MWM) 
    
  On October 31, 2011, we acquired   100 percent   of the equity in privately held MWM Holding GmbH (MWM).  Headquartered in Mannheim, Germany, MWM is a global supplier of sustainable, natural gas and alternative-fuel engines.  With the acquisition of MWM, Caterpillar expects to expand customer options for sustainable power generation solutions.  The purchase price, net of   $94 million   of acquired cash, was approximately   $774 million   (   574 million  ).  
    
  The transaction was financed with available cash.  Tangible assets as of the acquisition date were   $535 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included cash of   $94 million  , receivables of   $96 million  , inventories of   $205 million   and property, plant and equipment of   $108 million  .  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of   $221 million   were primarily related to customer relationships and also included intellectual property and trade names.  The finite lived intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted average amortization period of approximately   10 years  .  Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date were   $284 million  , recorded at their fair values, and primarily included accounts payable of   $77 million  , net deferred tax liabilities of   $67 million   and advance payments of   $43 million  .  Goodwill of   $396 million  , approximately   $90 million   of which is deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired.  Factors that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill include MWM s strategic fit into our product and services portfolio, aftermarket support opportunities and the acquired assembled workforce.  The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Power Systems segment.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from reported results. 
    
  Bucyrus International, Inc. 
    
  On July 8, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Bucyrus International, Inc. (Bucyrus).  Bucyrus is a designer, manufacturer and marketer of mining equipment for the surface and underground mining industries.  The total purchase price was approximately   $8.8 billion  , consisting of   $7.4 billion   for the purchase of all outstanding shares of Bucyrus common stock at   $92   per share and   $1.6 billion   of assumed Bucyrus debt, substantially all of which was repaid subsequent to closing, net of   $0.2 billion   of acquired cash. 
    
  We funded the acquisition using available cash, commercial paper borrowings and approximately   $4.5 billion   of long-term debt issued in May 2011.  On May 24, 2011, we issued   $500 million   of Floating Rate Senior Notes (  Three-month USD LIBOR   plus  
    A-  124 

0.10%  ) due in 2012 and   $750 million   of Floating Rate Senior Notes (  Three-month USD LIBOR   plus   0.17%  ) due in 2013.  The interest rates for the Floating Rate Senior Notes will be reset quarterly.  We also issued   $750 million   of   1.375%   Senior Notes due in 2014,   $1.25 billion   of   3.900%   Senior Notes due in 2021, and   $1.25 billion   of   5.200%   Senior Notes due in 2041.  The Notes are unsecured obligations of Caterpillar and rank equally with all other senior unsecured indebtedness. 
    
  Bucyrus contributed the following to sales and to profit before taxes (inclusive of deal-related and integration costs):   

The results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are reported in the Resource Industries segment.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded   $373 million   in costs related to the acquisition of Bucyrus.  These acquisition related costs include consulting, legal and advisory fees, severance costs and financing costs.   
    
  During the three months ended December 31, 2011, we adjusted the initial allocation of the purchase price which reduced goodwill by   $647 million  , the net result of purchase accounting adjustments to the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities.  During 2012, we finalized the allocation of the purchase price to identifiable assets and liabilities, reducing the amount allocated to goodwill from our December 31, 2011 preliminary allocation by an additional   $28 million  .  These adjustments primarily included a reduction to goodwill to reflect the tax consequences of the expected reversal of differences in the U.S. GAAP and tax basis of assets and liabilities. 
    
  The following table summarizes our initial and final allocation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date at estimated fair value. 

A-  125 

The following table is a summary of the fair value estimates of the acquired identifiable intangible assets and weighted average useful lives.  These intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their respective weighted-average useful life. 

Goodwill in the amount of   $4,588 million   was recorded for the acquisition of Bucyrus.  Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the estimated future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized.  Goodwill will not be amortized, but will be tested for impairment at least annually.  Approximately   $500 million   of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.  Goodwill largely consists of expected synergies resulting from the acquisition.  Key areas of expected cost savings include elimination of redundant selling, general and administrative expenses and increased purchasing power for raw materials and supplies.  We also anticipate the acquisition will produce growth synergies as a result of the combined businesses  broader product portfolio in the mining industry. 
    
  A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions.  The judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. 
    
  The unaudited pro forma results presented below include the effects of the Bucyrus acquisition as if it had occurred as of January 1, 2010.  The unaudited pro forma results reflect certain adjustments related to the acquisition, such as the amortization associated with estimates for the acquired intangible assets, fair value adjustments for inventory, contracts and the impact of acquisition financing.  The 2011 supplemental pro forma earnings excluded   $373 million   of acquisition related costs, including consulting, legal and advisory fees, severance costs and financing expense prior to debt issuance.  Also, the 2011 supplemental pro forma earnings were adjusted to exclude   $303 million   of nonrecurring expense related to the fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory and   $25 million   acceleration of Bucyrus stock compensation expense.   
    
  The pro forma results do not include any anticipated synergies or other expected benefits of the acquisition.  Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma financial information below is not necessarily indicative of either future results of operations or results that might have been achieved had the acquisition been completed on the dates indicated. 

Bucyrus Distribution Business Divestitures 
    
  In conjunction with our acquisition of Bucyrus in July 2011, we announced our intention to sell the Bucyrus distribution business to Caterpillar dealers that support mining customers around the world in a series of individual transactions.  Bucyrus predominantly employed a direct to end customer model to sell and support products.  The intention is for all Bucyrus products to be sold and serviced by Caterpillar dealers, consistent with our long-held distribution strategy.  These transitions are occurring in phases based on the mining business opportunity within each dealer territory. 
    
    A-  126 

As portions of the Bucyrus distribution business are sold or classified as held for sale, they will not qualify as discontinued operations because Caterpillar expects significant continuing direct cash flows from the Caterpillar dealers after the divestitures.  The gain or loss on disposal, along with the continuing operations of these disposal groups, will be reported in the Resource Industries segment.  Goodwill will be allocated to each disposal group using the relative fair value method.  The value of the customer relationship intangibles related to each portion of the Bucyrus distribution business to be sold will be included in the disposal groups.  The disposal groups will be recorded at the lower of their carrying value or fair value less cost to sell.  In 2013 and 2012, we recorded asset impairment charges of   $11 million   and   $27 million   respectively, related to disposal groups being sold to Caterpillar dealers.  Fair value was determined based upon the negotiated sales price.  The impairments were recorded in Other operating (income) expenses and included in the Resource Industries segment.  The portions of the distribution business that were sold were not material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flow. 
    
  In 2013, we completed   19   sale transactions whereby we sold portions of the Bucyrus distribution business to Caterpillar dealers for an aggregate price of   $466 million  .  A portion of these transactions are subject to certain working capital adjustments.  For the full year 2013, after-tax profit was unfavorably impacted by   $39 million   as a result of the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities.  This is comprised of   $95 million   of income related to sales transactions, a   $34 million   unfavorable adjustment due to a change in estimate to increase the reserve for parts returns related to prior sale transactions (both included in Other operating (income) expenses), costs incurred related to the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities of   $104 million   (included in Selling, general and administrative expenses) and an income tax benefit of   $4 million  . 
     
  Assets sold in 2013 included customer relationship intangibles of   $127 million  , other assets of   $65 million  , which consisted primarily of inventory and fixed assets, and allocated goodwill of   $56 million   related to the divested portions of the Bucyrus distribution business. 
    
  As part of the 2013 divestitures, Cat Financial provided   $132 million   of financing to   five   of the Caterpillar dealers. 
    
  In 2012, we completed   12   sale transactions whereby we sold portions of the Bucyrus distribution business to Caterpillar dealers for an aggregate price of   $1,443 million  , which included   $38 million   of working capital adjustments paid throughout 2013.  For the full year 2012, after-tax profit was unfavorably impacted by   $28 million   as a result of the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities.  This is comprised of   $310 million   of income (included in Other operating (income) expenses) related to  sales transactions, offset by costs incurred related to the Bucyrus distribution divestiture activities of   $177 million   (included in Selling, general and administrative expenses) and income tax of   $161 million  . 
    
  Assets sold in 2012 included customer relationship intangibles of   $256 million  , other assets of   $254 million  , which consisted primarily of inventory and fixed assets, and allocated goodwill of   $405 million   related to the divested portions of the Bucyrus distribution business. 
    
  As part of the 2012 divestitures, Cat Financial provided   $739 million   of financing to   five   of the Caterpillar dealers.   
    
  In December 2011, we completed   one   sale transaction whereby we sold a portion of the Bucyrus distribution business to a Caterpillar dealer for   $337 million  , which includes a   $23 million   working capital adjustment paid in the third quarter of 2012.  After-tax profit was favorably impacted by   $9 million   in 2011 as a result of the Bucyrus distribution business divestiture activities. This is comprised of   $96 million   of income (included in Other operating (income) expenses) primarily related to the sale transaction, offset by costs incurred related to the Bucyrus distribution business divestiture activities of   $32 million   (included in Selling, general and administrative expenses) and income tax of   $55 million  .  Assets sold included customer relationship intangibles of   $63 million  , other assets of   $53 million  , which consisted primarily of inventory and fixed assets, and allocated goodwill of   $101 million  . 
    
  Third Party Logistics Business Divestiture 
    
  On July 31, 2012, Platinum Equity acquired a   65 percent   equity interest in Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC, the third party logistics division of our wholly owned subsidiary, Caterpillar Logistics Inc., for   $567 million   subject to certain working capital adjustments.  The purchase price of   $567 million   was comprised of a   $107 million   equity contribution from Platinum Equity to, and third party debt raised by, Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC.  The sale of the third party logistics business supports Caterpillar's increased focus on the continuing growth opportunities in its core businesses.  Under the terms of the agreement, Caterpillar retained a   35 percent   equity interest.  
    
  As a result of the divestiture, we recorded a pretax gain of   $278 million   (included in Other operating (income) expenses).  In addition, we recognized   $8 million   of incremental incentive compensation expense.  The fair value of our retained noncontrolling interest was   $58 million  , as determined by the   $107 million   equity contribution from Platinum Equity, and was included in Investments in unconsolidated affiliated companies in Statement 3.  The disposal did not qualify as discontinued operations because  
    A-  127 

Caterpillar has significant continuing involvement through its noncontrolling interest.  The financial impact of the disposal was reported in the All Other operating segment.  Results for our remaining interest will be recorded in Equity in profit (loss) of unconsolidated affiliated companies and are reported in the All Other operating segment.   
    
  The controlling financial interest in Caterpillar Logistics Services LLC was not material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flow.   
    
    GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
    
           1. 
    All Other Segment   - Primarily includes activities such as: the remanufacturing of Cat  engines and components and remanufacturing services for other companies as well as the product management, development, manufacturing, marketing and product support of undercarriage, specialty products, hardened bar stock components and ground engaging tools primarily for Caterpillar products; logistics services; the product management, development, marketing, sales and product support of on-highway vocational trucks for North America; distribution services responsible for dealer development and administration, dealer portfolio management and ensuring the most efficient and effective distribution of machines, engines and parts.  On July 31, 2012, we sold a majority interest in Caterpillar s third party logistics business.  
       
           2. 
    Consolidating Adjustments   - Eliminations of transactions between Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
       
           3. 
    Construction Industries   - A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in infrastructure and building construction applications.  Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support.  The product portfolio includes backhoe loaders, small wheel loaders, small track-type tractors, skid steer loaders, multi-terrain loaders, mini excavators, compact wheel loaders, select work tools, small, medium and large track excavators, wheel excavators, medium wheel loaders, compact track loaders, medium track-type tractors, track-type loaders, motor graders and pipelayers.  In addition, Construction Industries has responsibility for Power Systems and three wholly-owned dealers in Japan and an integrated manufacturing cost center. 
       
           4. 
    Currency   - With respect to sales and revenues, currency represents the translation impact on sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar.  With respect to operating profit, currency represents the net translation impact on sales and operating costs resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar.  Currency includes the impact on sales and operating profit for the Machinery and Power Systems lines of business only; currency impacts on Financial Products revenues and operating profit are included in the Financial Products portions of the respective analyses.  With respect to other income/expense, currency represents the effects of forward and option contracts entered into by the company to reduce the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates and the net effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our foreign currency assets and liabilities for consolidated results.  
       
           5. 
    Debt-to-Capital Ratio   - A key measure of Machinery and Power Systems  financial strength used by both management and our credit rating agencies.  The metric is defined as Machinery and Power Systems  short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year and long-term debt due after one year (debt) divided by the sum of Machinery and Power Systems  debt and stockholders  equity.  Debt also includes Machinery and Power Systems  borrowings from Financial Products. 
       
           6. 
    EAME   - A geographic region including Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). 
       
           7. 
    Earning Assets   - Assets consisting primarily of total finance receivables net of unearned income, plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation at Cat Financial. 
       
           8. 
    Financial Products Segment   -     Provides financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment, as well as some financing for Caterpillar sales to dealers.  Financing plans include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, working capital loans and wholesale financing plans.  The segment also provides various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and lease of our equipment. 
       
           9. 
    Latin America   - Geographic region including Central and South American countries and Mexico. 
       
           10. 
    LIFO Inventory Decrement Benefits   - A significant portion of Caterpillar's inventory is valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.  With this method, the cost of inventory is comprised of "layers" at cost levels for years when inventory increases occurred.  A LIFO decrement occurs when inventory decreases, depleting layers added in earlier, generally lower cost, years.  A LIFO decrement benefit represents the impact on operating profit of charging cost of goods sold with prior-year cost levels rather than current period costs. 
       
    A-  128 

11. 
    Machinery and Power Systems (M PS)   - Represents the aggregate total of Construction Industries, Resource Industries, Power Systems, and All Other Segment and related corporate items and eliminations. 
       
           12. 
    Machinery and Power Systems Other Operating (Income) Expenses   - Comprised primarily of gains/losses on disposal of long-lived assets, long-lived asset impairment charges, legal settlements, employee separation charges and benefit plan curtailment, settlement and contractual termination benefits. 
       
           13. 
    Manufacturing Costs   - Manufacturing costs exclude the impacts of currency and represent the volume-adjusted change for variable costs and the absolute dollar change for period manufacturing costs.  Variable manufacturing costs are defined as having a direct relationship with the volume of production.  This includes material costs, direct labor and other costs that vary directly with production volume such as freight, power to operate machines and supplies that are consumed in the manufacturing process.  Period manufacturing costs support production but are defined as generally not having a direct relationship to short-term changes in volume.  Examples include machinery and equipment repair, depreciation on manufacturing assets, facility support, procurement, factory scheduling, manufacturing planning and operations management. 
       
           14. 
    Power Systems   - A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using reciprocating engines, turbines and related parts across industries serving electric power, industrial, petroleum and marine applications as well as rail-related businesses.  Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management, development, manufacturing, marketing, sales and product support of reciprocating engine powered generator sets, integrated systems used in the electric power generation industry, reciprocating engines and integrated systems and solutions for the marine and petroleum industries; reciprocating engines supplied to the industrial industry as well as Caterpillar machinery; the business strategy, product design, product management, development, manufacturing, marketing, sales and product support of turbines and turbine-related services; the development, manufacturing, remanufacturing, maintenance, leasing, and service of diesel-electric locomotives and components and other rail-related products and services. 
       
           15. 
    Price Realization   - The impact of net price changes excluding currency and new product introductions.  Consolidated price realization includes the impact of changes in the relative weighting of sales between geographic regions. 
       
           16. 
    Resource Industries   - A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in mining and quarrying applications.  Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support.  The product portfolio includes large track-type tractors, large mining trucks, underground mining equipment, electric rope shovels, draglines, hydraulic shovels, drills, highwall miners, tunnel boring equipment, large wheel loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, wheel tractor scrapers, wheel dozers, select work tools, forestry products, paving products, industrial and waste products, machinery components and electronics and control systems.  Resource Industries also manages areas that provide services to other parts of the company, including integrated manufacturing and research and development.  In addition, segment profit includes the impact from divestiture of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business and the acquisition of Siwei. 
       
           17. 
    Restructuring Costs   - Primarily costs for employee severance and long-lived asset impairments. 
       
           18. 
    Sales Volume   - With respect to sales and revenues, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the quantities sold for Machinery and Power Systems as well as the incremental revenue impact of new product introductions, including emissions-related product updates.  With respect to operating profit, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the quantities sold for Machinery and Power Systems combined with product mix as well as the net operating profit impact of new product introductions, including emissions-related product updates.  Product mix represents the net operating profit impact of changes in the relative weighting of Machinery and Power Systems sales with respect to total sales. 
       
           19. 
    Siwei   - ERA Mining Machinery Limited, including its wholly-owned subsidiary Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical   Electrical Manufacturing Co., Ltd., commonly known as Siwei, which was acquired during the second quarter of 2012.  Siwei primarily designs, manufactures, sells and supports underground coal mining equipment in China and is included in our Resource Industries segment.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, Siwei was renamed to Caterpillar (Zhengzhou) Ltd. 
       
    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
    
  Sources of funds 
    
  We generate significant capital resources from operating activities, which are the primary source of funding for our Machinery and Power Systems' operations.  Funding for these businesses is also available from commercial paper and long-term debt issuances.  Financial Products' operations are funded primarily from commercial paper, term debt issuances and collections from its existing  
    A-  129 

portfolio.  Throughout 2013, we experienced favorable liquidity conditions globally in both our Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products' operations.  On a consolidated basis, we ended 2013 with $6.08 billion of cash, an increase of $591 million from year-end 2012.  We intend to maintain a strong cash and liquidity position.  Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world with approximately $3.5 billion held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries.  Amounts held outside the United States are available for general corporate use and could be used in the United States without incurring significant additional U.S. taxes. 
    
  Consolidated operating cash flow for 2013 was $10.19 billion up from $5.18 billion in 2012.  The increase was primarily due to  favorable changes in inventory and accounts payable.  Throughout 2013, inventory decreased significantly, whereas during 2012, there was an increase in inventory.  In mid-2012, as order rates declined, we began lowering production schedules and incoming material purchases from suppliers around the world to bring inventory levels in line with expected demand.  While production schedules began to decline in the second half of 2012, the most significant impacts on inventory occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 and throughout 2013.  We believe current inventory and production levels are reasonably aligned with anticipated demand.  Changes in accounts payable had a slight positive impact on operating cash flow in 2013, whereas during the second half of 2012, a decline in material purchases to support inventory reduction, resulted in lower accounts payable.  In addition, changes in receivables had a positive impact on operating cash flow, primarily due to lower sales in 2013.  These favorable items were partially offset by lower profit.  See further discussion of operating cash flow under Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
    
  Total debt as of December 31, 2013, was $37.75 billion, a decrease of $2.39 billion from year-end 2012.  Debt related to Machinery and Power Systems decreased $1.64 billion in 2013, primarily due to payments on matured long-term debt and short-term borrowings.  Debt related to Financial Products decreased $753 million, due to an increase in payments, partially offset by increasing portfolio balances. 
    
  We have three global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $10.00 billion (Credit Facility) available in the aggregate to both Caterpillar and Cat Financial for general liquidity purposes.  Based on management's allocation decision, which can be revised from time to time, the portion of the Credit Facility available to Machinery and Power Systems as of December 31, 2013 was $2.75 billion.  Our three Global Credit Facilities are: 

At December 31, 2013, Caterpillar's consolidated net worth was $25.03 billion, which was above the $9.00 billion required under the Credit Facility.  The consolidated net worth is defined as the consolidated stockholder's equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other postretirement benefits balance within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 
    
  At December 31, 2013, Cat Financial's covenant interest coverage ratio was 1.96 to 1.  This is above the 1.15 to 1 minimum ratio calculated as (1) profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to (2) interest expense calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended, required by the Credit Facility. 
    
  In addition, at December 31, 2013, Cat Financial's six-month covenant leverage ratio was 8.14 to 1 and year-end covenant leverage ratio was 7.99 to 1.  This is below the maximum ratio of debt to net worth of 10 to 1, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31, required by the Credit Facility. 
    
  In the event Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet one or more of their respective financial covenants under the Credit Facility in the future (and are unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the syndicate of banks may terminate the commitments allocated to the party that does not meet its covenants.  Additionally, in such event, certain of Cat Financial's other lenders under other loan agreements where similar financial covenants or cross default provisions are applicable, may, at their election, choose to pursue remedies under those loan agreements, including accelerating the repayment of outstanding borrowings.  At December 31, 2013, there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility. 
    
  Our total credit commitments as of   December 31, 2013   were: 
    A-  130 

Other consolidated credit lines with banks as of December 31,   2013   totaled $4.51 billion. These committed and uncommitted credit lines, which may be eligible for renewal at various future dates or have no specified expiration date, are used primarily by our subsidiaries for local funding requirements.  Caterpillar or Cat Financial may guarantee subsidiary borrowings under these lines. 
    
  In the event that Caterpillar or Cat Financial, or any of their debt securities, experiences a credit rating downgrade, it would likely result in an increase in our borrowing costs and make access to certain credit markets more difficult.  In the event economic conditions deteriorate such that access to debt markets becomes unavailable, our Machinery and Power Systems operations would rely on cash flow from operations, use of existing cash balances, borrowings from Cat Financial and access to our Credit Facility.  Our Financial Products operations would rely on cash flow from its existing portfolio, existing cash balances, access to our Credit Facility and other credit line facilities of Cat Financial and potential borrowings from Caterpillar.  In addition, we maintain a support agreement with Cat Financial, which requires Caterpillar to remain the sole owner of Cat Financial and may, under certain circumstances, require Caterpillar to make payments to Cat Financial should Cat Financial fail to maintain certain financial ratios. 
    
  Machinery and Power Systems 
    
  Net cash provided by operating activities was $8.96 billion in 2013, compared with $4.20 billion in 2012.  The increase was primarily due to favorable changes in inventory and accounts payable.  Throughout 2013, inventory decreased significantly, whereas during 2012, there was an increase in inventory.  In mid-2012, as order rates declined, we began lowering production schedules and incoming material purchases from suppliers around the world to bring inventory levels in line with expected demand.  While production schedules began to decline in the second half of 2012, the most significant impacts on inventory occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 and throughout 2013.  We believe current inventory and production levels are reasonably aligned with anticipated demand.  Changes in accounts payable had a slight positive impact on operating cash flow in 2013, whereas during the second half of 2012, a decline in material purchases to support inventory reduction, resulted in lower accounts payable.  In addition, changes in receivables had a positive impact on operating cash flow, primarily due to lower sales in 2013.  These favorable items were partially offset by lower profit. 
    
  Net cash used for investing activities in 2013 was $3.14 billion compared with $1.87 billion in 2012.  The change was primarily due to lower cash proceeds from the sale of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business in 2013 as compared to 2012 and the absence of the sale of a majority interest in our third party logistics business during the third quarter of 2012.  In addition, there was an increase in net loans to Cat Financial in 2013.  Partially offsetting these items were lower capital expenditures in 2013 in response to lower sales. 
    
  Net cash used for financing activities in 2013 was $4.51 billion compared with net cash used for financing activities of $773 million in 2012.  The change was primarily due to the repurchase of $2 billion of Caterpillar stock as well as the net payment of long-term debt in 2013 as compared with the net issuance of long-term debt in 2012.  These items were partially offset by the redemption of the remaining 33 percent interest of Cat Japan in the second quarter of 2012, and the accelerated payment of the fourth quarter 2012 dividend. 
    
  Our priorities for the use of cash are maintaining a strong financial position that helps maintain our credit rating, providing capital to support growth, appropriately funding employee benefit plans, paying dividends and repurchasing common stock. 
    
  Strong financial position         A key measure of Machinery and Power Systems' financial strength used by both management and our credit rating agencies is Machinery and Power Systems' debt-to-capital ratio.  Debt-to-capital is defined as short- 
    A-  131 

term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year and long-term debt due after one year (debt) divided by the sum of debt and stockholders' equity.  Debt also includes Machinery and Power Systems borrowings from Financial Products.  The debt-to-capital ratio for Machinery and Power Systems was 29.7 percent at December 31, 2013, just below our target range of 30 to 45 percent.  The Machinery and Power Systems' debt-to-capital ratio was 37.4 percent at December 31, 2012.  The reduction in the debt-to-capital ratio was due to a reduction of debt during 2013 and an increase in equity, resulting from the year end pension and post-retirement benefit revaluation adjustment and 2013 profit, partially offset by the $2 billion stock repurchase. 
    
  Capital to support growth         Capital expenditures during 2013 were $2.61 billion, a decrease of $830 million compared with 2012.  The reduction in capital expenditures was in response to lower sales.  We expect capital expenditures for 2014 will be slightly lower than 2013 capital expenditures. 
    
  Appropriately funded employee benefit plans         During 2013, we made contributions of $541 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $303 million to our non-U.S. pension plans.  We made contributions of $580 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $446 million to our non-U.S. pension plans in 2012.  We expect to make approximately $510 million of required contributions in 2014.  We believe we have adequate liquidity resources to fund both U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans. 
    
  Paying dividends         Dividends paid totaled $1.11 billion in 2013, representing 52 cents per share paid in the second quarter and 60 cents per share in the third and fourth quarters.  During the first quarter of 2013, there was no dividend payment, as it was accelerated into and paid in December 2012.  Each quarter, our Board of Directors reviews the company's dividend for the applicable quarter.  The Board evaluates the financial condition of the company and considers the economic outlook, corporate cash flow, the company's liquidity needs and the health and stability of global credit markets to determine whether to maintain or change the quarterly dividend. 
    
  Common stock repurchases         In February 2007, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $7.5 billion of Caterpillar stock, and in December 2011, the authorization was extended through December 2015.  We repurchased $1 billion in stock in both the second and third quarters of 2013.  Through the end of 2013, we have repurchased $5.8 billion of Caterpillar stock, leaving approximately $1.7 billion in the authorization.  Basic shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013 were 638 million. 
    
  In January 2014, we completed the current $7.5 billion stock repurchase program as we entered into a definitive agreement with Citibank, N.A. to purchase shares of our common stock under an accelerated stock repurchase transaction (January ASR Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the January ASR Agreement, we have agreed to repurchase approximately $1.7 billion of our common stock from Citibank, N.A., with an immediate delivery of approximately 17.7 million shares.  The final number of shares to be repurchased and the aggregate cost to Caterpillar will be based on Caterpillar's volume-weighted average stock price during the term of the transaction, which is expected to be completed in March 2014. 
    
  In addition, in January 2014, the Board authorized the repurchase of $10 billion of Caterpillar stock, which will expire on December 31, 2018.  
    
  Financial Products 
    
  Financial Products operating cash flow was $1.28 billion in 2013, compared with $1.26 billion in 2012. Net cash used for investing activities in 2013 was $2.53 billion, compared with $4.52 billion in 2012. The change was primarily due to less net cash used for finance receivables due to slower growth in Cat Financial's portfolio. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2013 was $572 million, compared with $4.30 billion in 2012. The change was primarily due to lower funding requirements for investing activities, the impact of net intercompany borrowings and the use of existing cash. 
    
    A-  132 

Contractual obligations 
    
  The company has committed cash outflow related to long-term debt, operating lease agreements, postretirement obligations, purchase obligations, interest on long-term debt and other long-term contractual obligations. Minimum payments for these obligations are: 

1   
    Amounts represent expected contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans through 2023, offset by expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts. 
               2   
    Amount represents invoices received and recorded as liabilities in 2013, but scheduled for payment in 2014. These represent short-term obligations made in the ordinary course of business. 
               3   
    Amount represents contractual obligations for material and services on order at December 31, 2013 but not yet delivered. These represent short-term obligations made in the ordinary course of business. 
               4   
    Amounts represent long-term commitments entered into with key suppliers for minimum purchases quantities. 
               5   
    Amounts represent estimated contractual interest payments on long-term debt, including capital lease interest payments. 
               6   
    Amounts represent contractual obligations primarily related to logistics services agreements with the third party logistics business in which Caterpillar sold a majority interest in during 2012, software license contracts, IT consulting contracts and outsourcing contracts for  benefit plan administration and software system support. 

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting only the timing of tax benefits, was $759 million at December 31, 2013.  Payment of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. Due to the difficulty in determining the timing of settlements, these obligations are not included in the table above.  We do not expect to make a tax payment related to these obligations within the next year that would significantly impact liquidity. 
    
    A-  133 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
    
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts. The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased assets, fair values for goodwill impairment tests, impairment of available-for-sale securities, warranty liability, stock-based compensation, reserves for product liability and insurance losses, postretirement benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes. We have incorporated many years of data into the determination of each of these estimates and we have not historically experienced significant adjustments. These assumptions are reviewed at least annually with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Following are the methods and assumptions used in determining our estimates and an indication of the risks inherent in each. 
    
  Residual values for leased assets     The residual values for Cat Financial s leased assets, which are based upon the estimated wholesale market value of leased equipment at the time of the expiration of the lease, are based on a careful analysis of historical wholesale market sales prices, projected forward on a level trend line without consideration for inflation or possible future pricing action.  At the inception of the lease, residual values are derived from consideration of the following critical factors: market size and demand, any known significant market/product trends, total expected hours of usage, machine configuration, application, location, model changes, quantities and past re-marketing experience, third-party residual guarantees and contractual customer purchase options.  Many of these factors are gathered in an application survey that is completed prior to quotation.  The lease agreement also clearly defines applicable return conditions and remedies for non-compliance, to ensure that the leased equipment will be in good operating condition upon return.  Model changes and updates, as well as market strength and product acceptance, are monitored and adjustments are made to residual values in accordance with the significance of any such changes.  Remarketing sales staff works closely with customers and dealers to manage the sale of lease returns and the recovery of residual exposure. 
    
  During the term of the leases, residual amounts are monitored.  If estimated market values reflect a non-temporary impairment due to economic factors, obsolescence or other adverse circumstances, the residuals are adjusted to the lower estimated values by a charge to earnings.  For equipment on operating leases, the charge is recognized through depreciation expense.  For finance leases, it is recognized through a reduction of finance revenue. 
    
  Fair values for goodwill impairment tests     We test goodwill for impairment annually, at the reporting unit level, and whenever events or circumstances make it likely that an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell all or a portion of a reporting unit.  We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for interim triggering events on an ongoing basis. 
    
  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing a qualitative assessment or a two-step process.  We have an option to make a qualitative assessment of a reporting unit's goodwill for impairment.  If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment and determine the fair value more likely than not exceeds the carrying value, no further evaluation is necessary.  For reporting units where we perform the two-step process, the first step requires us to compare the fair value of each reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash flows, to the respective carrying value, which includes goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the goodwill is not considered impaired.  If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication that an impairment may exist and the second step is required.  In step two, the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the fair values assigned to its assets and liabilities.  If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment loss. 
    
  The impairment test process requires valuation of the respective reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on a discounted five year forecasted cash flow with a year-five residual value. The residual value is computed using the constant growth method, which values the forecasted cash flows in perpetuity. The income approach is supported by a reconciliation of our calculated fair value for Caterpillar to the company's market capitalization. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on each reporting unit's long-term forecast and are subject to review and approval by senior management. The discount rate is a risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital, which we believe approximates the rate from a market participant's perspective. The estimated fair value could be impacted by changes in market conditions, interest rates, growth rates, tax rates, costs, pricing and capital expenditures. 
    
  Annual impairment tests, completed in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2011, indicated the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially  above its respective carrying value, including Goodwill.  Caterpillar's market capitalization has remained significantly above the net book value of the Company. 
    
    A-  134 

The 2012 impairment test, completed in the fourth quarter, indicated the fair value of each of our reporting units was above its respective carrying value, including goodwill, with the exception of our Siwei reporting unit.  The Siwei impairment test was performed as of November 30 after it came to our attention in the month of November that Siwei had engaged in accounting misconduct prior to Caterpillar's acquisition of Siwei in mid-2012.  The accounting misconduct included inappropriate accounting practices involving improper cost allocation that resulted in overstated profit and improper revenue recognition practices involving early and, at times unsupported, revenue recognition.  We determined the carrying value of Siwei exceeded its fair value at the measurement date, requiring step two in the impairment test process.  We assigned the fair value to the reporting unit's assets and liabilities and determined the implied fair value of goodwill was substantially below the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill.  Accordingly, we recognized a $580 million goodwill impairment charge, which resulted in goodwill of $45 million remaining for Siwei as of December 31, 2012.  The goodwill impairment was a result of changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value resulting from the accounting misconduct that occurred before the acquisition.  There was no tax benefit associated with this impairment charge.  The Siwei goodwill impairment charge is reported in the Resource Industries segment. 
    
  A prolonged economic downturn resulting in lower long-term growth rates and reduced long-term profitability may reduce the fair value of our reporting units. Industry specific events or circumstances that have a negative impact to the valuation assumptions may also reduce the fair value of our reporting units.  Should such events occur and it becomes more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value has fallen below its carrying value, we will perform an interim goodwill impairment test(s), in addition to the annual impairment test.  Future impairment tests may result in a goodwill impairment, depending on the outcome of both step one and step two of the impairment review process.  A goodwill impairment would be reported as a non-cash charge to earnings. 
    
  Impairment of available-for-sale securities         Available-for-sale securities, primarily at Insurance Services, are reviewed at least quarterly to identify fair values below cost which may indicate that a security is impaired and should be written down to fair value. 
    
  For debt securities, once a security s fair value is below cost we utilize data gathered by investment managers, external sources and internal research to monitor the performance of the security to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred.  These reviews, which include an analysis of whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery, consist of both quantitative and qualitative analysis and require a degree of management judgment.  Securities in a loss position are monitored and assessed at least quarterly based on severity and timing of loss and may be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at any time.  Once a security s fair value has been 20 percent or more below its original cost for six consecutive months, the security will be other-than-temporarily impaired unless there are sufficient facts and circumstances supporting otherwise. 
    
  For equity securities in a loss position, determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires an analysis of that security's historical sector return as well as the volatility of that return.  This information is utilized to estimate a security s future fair value and to assess whether the security has the ability to recover to its original cost over a reasonable period of time.  Both historical annualized sector returns and the volatility of those returns are considered over a two year period to arrive at these estimates.   
    
  For both debt and equity securities, qualitative factors are also considered in determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired.  These include reviews of the following:  significant changes in the regulatory, economic or technological environment of the investee, significant changes in the general market condition of either the geographic area or the industry in which the investee operates, and length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost.  These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management judgment. 
    
  Warranty liability     At the time a sale is recognized, we record estimated future warranty costs.  The warranty liability is determined by applying historical claim rate experience to the current field population and dealer inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on actual warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine size by customer or dealer location (inside or outside North America).  Specific rates are developed for each product shipment month and are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim experience.  Warranty costs may differ from those estimated if actual claim rates are higher or lower than our historical rates. 
    
  Stock-based compensation     We use a lattice-based option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of our stock options and SARs.  The calculation of the fair value of the awards using the lattice-based option-pricing model is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding the following: 

Volatility is a measure of the amount by which the stock price is expected to fluctuate each year during the expected term of the award and is based on historical Caterpillar stock price movement and current implied volatilities from traded options on Caterpillar stock. The implied volatilities from traded options are impacted by changes in market conditions.  An increase in the volatility would result in an increase in our expense. 
       A-  135 

The expected term represents the period of time that awards granted are expected to be outstanding and is an output of the lattice-based option-pricing model. In determining the expected term of the award, future exercise and forfeiture patterns are estimated from Caterpillar employee historical exercise behavior.  These patterns are also affected by the vesting conditions of the award.  Changes in the future exercise behavior of employees or in the vesting period of the award could result in a change in the expected term.  An increase in the expected term would result in an increase to our expense. 
                
    The weighted-average dividend yield is based on Caterpillar s historical dividend yields.  As holders of stock-based awards do not receive dividend payments, this could result in employees retaining the award for a longer period of time if dividend yields decrease or exercising the award sooner if dividend yields increase.  A decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our expense. 
                
    The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at time of grant.  As the risk-free interest rate increases, the expected term increases, resulting in an increase in our expense. 
       
  The fair value of our RSUs is determined by reducing the stock price on the date of grant by the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting period. The estimated dividends are based on Caterpillar s weighted-average dividend yields. A decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our expense. 
    
  Stock-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the number of awards that are expected to vest.  In determining the stock-based compensation expense to be recognized, a forfeiture rate is applied to the fair value of the award.  This rate represents the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited prior to vesting and is based on Caterpillar employee historical behavior.  Changes in the future behavior of employees could impact this rate.  A decrease in this rate would result in an increase in our expense. 
    
  Product liability and insurance loss reserve     We determine these reserves based upon reported claims in process of settlement and actuarial estimates for losses incurred but not reported. Loss reserves, including incurred but not reported reserves, are based on estimates and ultimate settlements may vary significantly from such estimates due to increased claims frequency or severity over historical levels. 
    
  Postretirement benefits     Primary actuarial assumptions were determined as follows: 

The U.S. expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities weighted by the allocation of our plan assets.  Based on historical performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management of the plan assets.  A similar process is used to determine the rate for our non-U.S. pension plans.  This rate is impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because it represents a long-term rate, it is not significantly impacted by short-term market swings. Changes in our allocation of plan assets would also impact this rate.  For example, a shift to more fixed income securities would lower the rate.   A decrease in the rate would increase our expense.   
                
    The assumed discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to today s dollars.  The U.S. discount rate is based on a benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our benefit obligations could effectively be settled as of our measurement date, December 31.  The benefit cash flow-matching approach involves analyzing Caterpillar s projected cash flows against a high quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate Aa bonds available on the measurement date.  The very highest and lowest yielding bonds (top and bottom 10 percent) are excluded from the analysis.  A similar approach is used to determine the assumed discount rate for our most significant non-U.S. plans.  This rate is sensitive to changes in interest rates.  A decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation and future expense. 
                
    The expected rate of compensation increase is used to develop benefit obligations using projected pay at retirement. It represents average long-term salary increases.  This rate is influenced by our long-term compensation policies.  An increase in the rate would increase our obligation and expense. 
                
    The assumed health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are assumed to increase and is based on historical and expected experience.  Changes in our projections of future health care costs due to general economic conditions and those specific to health care (e.g., technology driven cost changes) will impact this trend rate.  An increase in the trend rate would increase our obligation and expense. 
       
  The effects of actual results   differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are considered actuarial gains or losses.  Actuarial gains or losses are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  When the unamortized actuarial gains or losses for an individual plan exceed 10 percent of the higher of the projected benefit obligation or 10 percent of market-related value of plans assets at the beginning of the year, the excess is amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost using the straight-line method.  The amortization period is generally the average remaining service period of active employees  
    A-  136 

expected to receive benefits from the plan.  For plans in which all or almost all of the plan s participants are inactive, actuarial gains or losses are amortized over the remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants. 
    
  Post-sale discount reserve     We provide discounts to dealers through merchandising programs.  We have numerous programs that are designed to promote the sale of our products.  The most common dealer programs provide a discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted end user.  The amount of accrued post-sale discounts was $1,132 million, $1,066 million and $937 million as of December 31,   2013  ,   2012   and   2011  , respectively.  The reserve represents discounts that we expect to pay on previously sold units and is reviewed at least quarterly.  The reserve is adjusted if discounts paid differ from those estimated.  Historically, those adjustments have not been material. 
    
  Credit loss reserve     The allowance for credit losses is an estimate of the losses inherent in our finance receivable portfolio and includes consideration of accounts that have been individually identified as impaired, as well as pools of finance receivables where it is probable that certain receivables in the pool are impaired but the individual accounts cannot yet be identified.   In identifying and measuring impairment, management takes into consideration past loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower s ability to repay, estimated value of underlying collateral and current economic conditions.  In estimating probable credit losses, we review accounts that are past due, non-performing, in bankruptcy or otherwise identified as at-risk for potential credit loss including accounts which have been modified.  Accounts are identified as at-risk for potential credit loss using information available about the customer, such as financial statements, news reports and published credit ratings, as well as general information regarding industry trends and the economic environment in which our customers operate. 
    
  The allowance for credit losses attributable to specific accounts is based on the most probable source of repayment, which is normally the liquidation of collateral.  In determining collateral value, we estimate the current fair market value of the collateral less selling costs.  We also consider credit enhancements such as additional collateral and contractual third-party guarantees. The allowance for credit losses attributable to the remaining accounts not yet individually identified as impaired is estimated utilizing probabilities of default and the estimated loss given default.  In addition, qualitative factors not able to be fully captured in previous analysis including industry trends, macroeconomic factors and model imprecision are considered in the evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses.  These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management judgment. 
    
  While management believes it has exercised prudent judgment and applied reasonable assumptions, there can be no assurance that in the future, changes in economic conditions or other factors would not cause changes in the financial health of our customers. If the financial health of our customers deteriorates, the timing and level of payments received could be impacted and therefore, could result in a change to our estimated losses. 
    
  Income taxes     We are subject to the income tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate.  These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation.  In establishing the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. 
    
  Despite our belief that our tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax laws, we believe that taxing authorities could challenge certain positions. Settlement of any challenge can result in no change, a complete disallowance, or some partial adjustment reached through negotiations or litigation. We record tax benefits for uncertain tax positions based upon management s evaluation of the information available at the reporting date.  To be recognized in the financial statements, a tax benefit must be at least more likely than not of being sustained based on technical merits.  The benefit for positions meeting the recognition threshold is measured as the largest benefit more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.  Significant judgment is required in making these determinations and adjustments to unrecognized tax benefits may be necessary to reflect actual taxes payable upon settlement.  Adjustments related to positions impacting the effective tax rate affect the provision for income taxes.  Adjustments related to positions impacting the timing of deductions impact deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
    
  Our income tax positions and analysis are based on currently enacted tax law.  Future changes in tax law could significantly impact the provision for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable, and the deferred tax asset and liability balances.  Deferred tax assets generally represent tax benefits for tax deductions or credits available in future tax returns.  Certain estimates and assumptions are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.  In making this assessment, management analyzes and estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and available prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.  Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, we record or adjust the related valuation allowance in the period that the change in facts and circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease in the provision for income taxes. 
    
    A-  137 

A provision for U.S. income taxes has not been recorded on undistributed profits of our non-U.S. subsidiaries that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S.  If management intentions or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. A deferred tax asset is recognized only if we have definite plans to generate a U.S. tax benefit by repatriating earnings in the foreseeable future. 
    
    GLOBAL WORKFORCE 
    
  Caterpillar worldwide full-time employment was 118,501 at the end of 2013 compared with 125,341 at the end of 2012, a decrease of 6,840 full-time employees.  The flexible workforce decreased 2,863 for a total decrease in the global workforce of 9,703.  The decrease was primarily the result of restructuring programs and lower production volumes. 

OTHER MATTERS 
    
  ENVIRONMENTAL AND LEGAL MATTERS 
    
  The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. We have made, and will continue to make, significant research and development and capital expenditures to comply with these emissions standards. 
    
  We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the investigation, remediation, and operating and maintenance costs are accrued against our earnings.  Costs are accrued based on consideration of currently available data and information with respect to each individual site, including available technologies, current applicable laws and regulations, and prior remediation experience.  Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, we accrue the minimum.  Where multiple potentially responsible parties are involved, we consider our proportionate share of the probable costs.  In formulating the estimate of probable costs, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others.  We reassess these accrued amounts on a quarterly basis.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in Accrued expenses in Statement 3.  There is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all the sites in the aggregate, will be required.   
    
  On October 24, 2013, Progress Rail Services Corporation (Progress Rail), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Caterpillar Inc., received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The subpoena requests documents and information from Progress Rail, United Industries Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Progress Rail, and Caterpillar Inc. relating to allegations that Progress Rail conducted improper or unnecessary railcar inspections and repairs and improperly disposed of parts, equipment, tools and other items. In connection with this subpoena, Progress Rail was informed by the U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of environmental laws and alleged improper business practices. The Company is cooperating with the authorities. The Company is unable to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate the potential loss; however, we currently believe that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operation, financial position or liquidity.  
    A-  138 

Beginning in September 2010, the company filed a series of legal claims to collect policy proceeds from a third party insurance company to recover amounts paid for covered asbestos defense and settlement costs for occurrences between 1962 and 1981.  In the fourth quarter of 2013, the company reached final settlement with the third party insurance company.  As a result, a gain of $68 million was recognized in Other operating (income) expense in Statement 1. 
    
  In addition, we are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve disputes related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues, environmental matters or intellectual property rights.  The aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities, if any, associated with these unresolved legal actions is not material.  In some cases, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of loss because there is insufficient information regarding the matter.  However, there is no more than a remote chance that any liability arising from these matters would be material.  Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 
    
    RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
    
  We recognized pension expense of $732 million in 2013 as compared to $723 million in 2012.  The increase in expense was primarily due to higher amortization of net actuarial losses mostly due to lower discount rates at the end of 2012 and a $31 million charge to recognize a previously unrecorded liability related to a subsidiary's pension plans.  The increase in expense was partially offset by lower interest costs, higher expected return on plan assets due to higher asset levels, $10 million of contractual termination benefits related to the closure of the Electro-Motive Diesel facility (discussed below) recognized in 2012 and $7 million of curtailment expense due to changes in our hourly U.S. pension plan (discussed below) and $7 million of settlement losses due to the disposal of the third party logistics business recognized in 2012.  Accounting guidance on retirement benefits requires companies to discount future benefit obligations back to today s dollars using a discount rate that is based on high-quality fixed income investments.  A decrease in the discount rate increases the pension benefit obligation, while an increase in the discount rate decreases the pension benefit obligation.  This increase or decrease in the pension benefit obligation is recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently amortized into earnings as an actuarial gain or loss.  The guidance also requires companies to use an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for computing current year pension expense.  Differences between the actual and expected returns are also recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently amortized into earnings as actuarial gains and losses.  At the end of 2013, total actuarial losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for pension plans were $5.77 billion, as compared to $9.19 billion in 2012. The majority of the actuarial losses are due to changes in discount rates, losses from other demographic and economic assumptions over the past several years and plan asset losses.  The decrease from 2012 to 2013 was primarily the result of an increase in discount rates, current year asset gains and amortization of net actuarial losses into earnings during 2013. 
    
  In 2013, we recognized other postretirement benefit expense of $261 million compared to $244 million in 2012.  The increase in expense was primarily the result of the absence of $40 million of curtailment gains recognized in 2012, of which $37 million is related to the closure of the Electro-Motive Diesel facility discussed below.  This was partially offset by a decrease in expense related to a $22 million adjustment for certain other benefits in 2013.  At the end of 2013 total actuarial losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for other postretirement benefit plans were $0.66 billion as compared to $1.53 billion in 2012.  These losses mainly reflect the impact of discount rates, changes in our health care trend assumption, and plan asset losses, partially offset by gains from lower than expected health care costs.  The decrease from 2012 to 2013 was primarily the result of an increase in discount rates, gains from lower than expected health care costs, current year asset gains and amortization of net actuarial losses into earnings during 2013. 
    
  Actuarial losses for both pensions and other postretirement benefits will be impacted in future periods by actual asset returns, actual health care inflation, discount rate changes, actual demographic experience and other factors that impact these expenses.  These losses, reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), will generally be amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits from the plan.  For plans in which all or almost all of the plan s participants are inactive, actuarial losses are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants.  At the end of 2013, the average remaining service period of active employees or life expectancy for inactive participants was 10 years for our U.S. pension plans, 13 years for non-U.S. pension plans and 9 years for other postretirement benefit plans.  We expect our amortization of net actuarial losses to decrease approximately $260 million in 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to an increase in discount rates during 2013 and plan asset gains during 2013.  We expect our total pension and other postretirement benefits expense to decrease approximately $300 million in 2014 which is primarily due to a decrease in amortization of net actuarial losses.  
    
    A-  139 

In February 2012, we announced the closure of the Electro-Motive Diesel facility located in London, Ontario.  As a result of the closure, we recognized a $37 million other postretirement benefits curtailment gain.  This excludes a $21 million loss of a third-party receivable for other postretirement benefits that was eliminated due to the closure.  In addition, a $10 million contractual termination benefit expense was recognized related to statutory pension benefits required to be paid to certain affected employees.  As a result, a net gain of $6 million related to the facility closure was recognized in Other operating (income) expenses. 
    
  In August 2012, we announced changes to our U.S. hourly pension plan, which impacted certain hourly employees.  For the impacted employees, pension benefit accruals were frozen on January 1, 2013 or will freeze January 1, 2016, at which time employees will become eligible for various provisions of company sponsored 401(k) plans including a matching contribution and an annual employer contribution.  The plan changes resulted in a curtailment and required a remeasurement as of August 31, 2012.  The curtailment and the remeasurement resulted in a net increase in our Liability for postemployment benefits of $243 million and a net loss of $153 million, net of tax, recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  The increase in the liability was primarily due to a decline in the discount rate.  Also, the curtailment resulted in expense of $7 million which was recognized in Other operating (income) expenses. 
    
  For our U.S. pension plans, our year-end 2013 asset allocation was 61 percent equity securities, 34 percent fixed income securities and 5 percent other.  Our current U.S. pension target asset allocations are 60 percent equity and 40 percent fixed income.  Our strategy includes further aligning our investments to our liabilities, while reducing risk in our portfolio.  Target allocation policies will be revisited periodically to ensure they reflect the overall objectives of the fund.  The U.S. plans are rebalanced to plus or minus 5 percentage points of the target asset allocation ranges on a monthly basis. 
    
  The year-end 2013 asset allocation for our non-U.S. pension plans was 53 percent equity securities, 37 percent fixed income securities, 6 percent real estate and 4 percent other.  The 2013 target allocation for our non-U.S. pension plans is 59 percent equity securities, 32 percent fixed income securities, 7 percent real estate and 2 percent other.  Our target asset allocations reflect our investment strategy of maximizing the rate of return on plan assets and the resulting funded status, within an appropriate level of risk.  The frequency of rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies depending on the plan. 
    
  The use of certain derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and necessary for achieving overall investment policy objectives.  The plans do not engage in derivative contracts for speculative purposes. 
    
  During 2013, we made contributions of $541 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $303 million to our non-U.S. pension plans.  We made contributions of $580 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $446 million to our non-U.S. pension plans in 2012.  We expect to make approximately $510 million of required contributions in 2014.  We believe we have adequate liquidity resources to fund both U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans. 
    
  Actuarial assumptions have a significant impact on both pension and other postretirement benefit expenses.  The effects of a one percentage point change in our primary actuarial assumptions on 2013 benefit costs and year-end obligations are included in the table below. 
    
    A-  140 

Postretirement Benefit Plan Actuarial Assumptions Sensitivity 
    
  Following are the effects of a one percentage-point change in our primary pension and other postretirement benefit actuarial assumptions (included in the following table) on   2013   pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations: 

SENSITIVITY 
    
  Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity 
    
  Machinery and Power Systems use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and outflow.  Our objective is to minimize the risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency cash flow.  Our policy allows for managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to five years.  Based on the anticipated and firmly committed cash inflow and outflow for our Machinery and Power Systems operations for the next 12 months and the foreign currency derivative instruments in place at year-end, a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to all other currencies would adversely affect our expected   2014   cash flow for our Machinery and Power Systems operations by approximately $361 million.  Last year similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $526 million adverse impact on   2013   cash flow.  We determine our net exposures by calculating the difference in cash inflow and outflow by currency  
    A-  141 

and adding or subtracting outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments.  We multiply these net amounts by 10 percent to determine the sensitivity. 
    
  Since our policy for Financial Products operations is to hedge the foreign exchange risk when the currency of our debt portfolio does not match the currency of our receivable portfolio, a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to all other currencies would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow.  Neither our policy nor the effect of a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar has changed from that reported at the end of last year. 
    
  The effect of the hypothetical change in exchange rates ignores the effect this movement may have on other variables, including competitive risk.  If it were possible to quantify this competitive impact, the results would probably be different from the sensitivity effects shown above.  In addition, it is unlikely that all currencies would uniformly strengthen or weaken relative to the U.S. dollar.  In reality, some currencies may weaken while others may strengthen.  Our primary exposure (excluding competitive risk) is to exchange rate movements in the euro, Japanese yen, British pound and Australian dollar. 
    
  Interest Rate Sensitivity 
    
  For our Machinery and Power Systems operations, we have the option to use interest rate swaps to lower the cost of borrowed funds by attaching fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to fixed-rate debt, and by entering into forward rate agreements on future debt issuances.  A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would have a minimal impact to   2014   pre-tax earnings of Machinery and Power Systems.  Last year, similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $14 million adverse impact on   2013   pre-tax earnings.  This effect is caused by the interest rate fluctuations on our short-term debt and forward and fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. 
    
  For our Financial Products operations, we use interest rate derivative instruments primarily to meet our match-funding objectives and strategies.  We have a match-funding policy whereby the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate) of our debt portfolio is matched to the interest rate profile of our earning asset portfolio (finance receivables and operating leases) within certain parameters.  In connection with that policy, we use interest rate swap agreements to modify the debt structure.  Match funding assists us in maintaining our interest rate spreads, regardless of the direction interest rates move. 
    
  In order to properly manage sensitivity to changes in interest rates, Financial Products measures the potential impact of different interest rate assumptions on pre-tax earnings.  All on-balance sheet positions, including derivative financial instruments, are included in the analysis.  The primary assumptions included in the analysis are that there are no new fixed rate assets or liabilities, the proportion of fixed rate debt to fixed rate assets remains unchanged and the level of floating rate assets and debt remain constant.  An analysis of the December 31,   2013   balance sheet, using these assumptions, estimates the impact of a 100 basis point immediate and sustained adverse change in interest rates to have a minimal impact on pre-tax earnings.  Last year, similar assumptions and calculations yielded a minimal impact to   2013   pre-tax earnings. 
    
  This analysis does not necessarily represent our current outlook of future market interest rate movement, nor does it consider any actions management could undertake in response to changes in interest rates.  Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual results would be consistent with the results of our estimate. 
    
    NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
    
  The following definitions are provided for  non-GAAP financial measures  in connection with Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  These non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and therefore are unlikely to be comparable to the calculation of similar measures for other companies.  Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. 
    
  Supplemental Consolidating Data 
    
  We are providing supplemental consolidating data for the purpose of additional analysis.  The data has been grouped as follows: 
    
  Consolidated     Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries. 
    
  Machinery and Power Systems     The Machinery and Power Systems data contained in the schedules on pages A-144 to A-146 are  non-GAAP financial measures  as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation G. These non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and therefore, are unlikely to be comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies. Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Caterpillar defines Machinery and Power Systems as it is presented in the  
    A-  142 

supplemental data as Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis. Machinery and Power Systems information relates to our design, manufacturing, marketing and parts distribution operations. Financial Products information relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment. The nature of these businesses is different, especially with regard to the financial position and cash flow items. Caterpillar management utilizes this presentation internally to highlight these differences. We also believe this presentation will assist readers in understanding our business. 
    
  Financial Products     primarily our finance and insurance subsidiaries, Cat Financial and Insurance Services. 
    
  Consolidating Adjustments     eliminations of transactions between Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
  Pages A-144 to A-146 reconcile Machinery and Power Systems with Financial Products on the equity basis to Caterpillar Inc. consolidated financial information. 
    
    A-  143 

1   
    Represents Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis. 
               2   
    Elimination of Financial Products  revenues earned from Machinery and Power Systems. 
               3   
    Elimination of net expenses recorded by Machinery and Power Systems paid to Financial Products. 
               4   
    Elimination of interest expense recorded between Financial Products and Machinery and Power Systems. 
               5   
    Elimination of discount recorded by Machinery and Power Systems on receivables sold to Financial Products and of interest earned between Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
               6   
    Elimination of Financial Products  profit due to equity method of accounting. 
               7   
    Profit attributable to common stockholders. 

A-  144 

1   
    Represents Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis. 
               2   
    Elimination of receivables between Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
               3   
    Reclassification of Machinery and Power Systems  trade receivables purchased by Financial Products and Financial Products' wholesale inventory receivables. 
               4   
    Elimination of Machinery and Power Systems  insurance premiums that are prepaid to Financial Products. 
               5   
    Elimination of Financial Products  equity which is accounted for on Machinery and Power Systems on the equity basis. 
               6   
    Reclassification reflecting required netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities by taxing jurisdiction. 
               7   
    Elimination of debt between Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
               8   
    Elimination of payables between Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
               9   
    Elimination of prepaid insurance in Financial Products  accrued expenses. 

A-  145 

1   
    Represents Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis. 
               2   
    Elimination of Financial Products  profit after tax due to equity method of accounting. 
               3   
    Elimination of non-cash adjustment for the undistributed earnings from Financial Products. 
               4   
    Elimination of non-cash adjustments and changes in assets and liabilities related to consolidated reporting. 
               5   
    Reclassification of Financial Products' cash flow activity from investing to operating for receivables that arose from the sale of inventory. 
               6   
    Elimination of net proceeds and payments to/from Machinery and Power Systems and Financial Products. 
               7   
    Elimination of dividend from Financial Products to Machinery and Power Systems. 
               8   
    Elimination of proceeds received from Financial Products related to Machinery and Power Systems  sale of portions of the Bucyrus distribution business to Cat dealers. 
               9   
    Reclassification of Financial Products' payments related to Machinery and Power Systems' acquisition of Caterpillar Tohoku Limited. 

A-  146 

SUPPLEMENTAL STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION 
    
                       Stockholder Services 

Registered stockholders should contact: 

Shares held in Street Position 
  Stockholders that hold shares through a street position should contact their bank or broker with questions regarding those shares. 
    
                       Stock Purchase Plan 

Current stockholders and other interested investors may purchase Caterpillar Inc. common stock directly through a Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan for Caterpillar Inc. which is sponsored and administered by our Transfer Agent, Computershare.  The program materials and enrollment form are available on-line from Computershare's website   https://www-us.computershare.com/Investor/   or by following a link from   www.caterpillar.com/dspp  . 
    
                       Investor Relations 

Institutional analysts, portfolio managers, and representatives of financial institutions seeking additional information about the Company should contact: 

Company Information 

Current information - 

phone our Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 764-9492 (Outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of Caterpillar s latest financial results and current outlook, or to request a copy of results by fax or mail 
                
    request, view, or download materials on-line by visiting   www.caterpillar.com/materialsrequest     or register for e-mail alerts by visiting   www.caterpillar.com/investors 
       
  Historical information - 

view/download on-line at   www.caterpillar.com/historical 
       
    A-  147 

Annual Meeting 

On Wednesday, June 11, 2014, at 8:00 a.m., Central Time, the annual meeting of stockholders will be held in Corinth, Mississippi.  We expect to send proxy materials to stockholders on or about May 1, 2014. 
    
                       Internet 

Visit us on the Internet at   www.caterpillar.com  . 
  Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this document. 
    
                       Common Stock (NYSE: CAT) 

Listing Information:   Caterpillar common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the United States, and on stock exchanges in France, Germany and Switzerland.  We expect to delist from the Deutsche Boerse in Germany effective February 28, 2014.  
    
  Price Ranges:   Quarterly price ranges of Caterpillar common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal market in which the stock is traded, were: 

Number of Stockholders:   Stockholders of record at year-end totaled 32,161, compared with 35,738 at the end of 2012. Approximately 62 percent of our issued shares are held by institutions and banks, 32 percent by individuals, and 6 percent by employees through company stock plans. 
    
    A-  148 

Performance Graph:  Total Cumulative Stockholder Return for Five-Year Period Ending December 31, 2013 

The graph below shows the cumulative stockholder return assuming an investment of $100 on December 31, 2008, and reinvestment of dividends issued thereafter. 

A-  149 

Directors/Committee Membership (as of February 1, 2014) 

Audit 
      
    Compensation   Human Resources 
      
    Public Policy   Governance 
      David L. Calhoun 

Daniel M. Dickinson 

Juan Gallardo 

Jesse J. Greene, Jr. 

Jon M. Huntsman, Jr. 

Peter A. Magowan 

Dennis A. Muilenburg 

Douglas R. Oberhelman 

William A. Osborn 
       * 

Edward B. Rust, Jr. 

* 
      Susan C. Schwab 

Miles D. White 

* 

* Chairman of Committee 

A-  150 

Officers   (as of February 1, 2014, except as noted) 

Douglas R. Oberhelman 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
      Bradley M. Halverson 
    Group President and Chief Financial Officer 
      Stuart L. Levenick 
    Group President 
      Edward J. Rapp 
    Group President 
      D. James Umpleby III 
    Group President 
      Steven H. Wunning 
    Group President 
      James B. Buda 
    Executive Vice President, Law and Public Policy 
      David P. Bozeman 
    Senior Vice President 
      Kent M. Adams 
    Vice President 
      William P. Ainsworth 
    Vice President 
      Mary H. Bell 
    Vice President 
      Thomas J. Bluth 
    Vice President 
      Robert B. Charter 
    Vice President 
      Qihua Chen 
    Vice President 
      Frank J. Crespo 
    Vice President 
      Christopher C. Curfman 
    Vice President 
      Michael L. DeWalt 
    Vice President 
      Paolo Fellin 
    Vice President 
      William E. Finerty 
    Vice President 
      Gregory S. Folley 
    Vice President 
      Thomas G. Frake 
    Vice President 
      Stephen A. Gosselin 
    Vice President 
      Hans A. Haefeli    (1)  
    Vice President 
      Kimberly S. Hauer 
    Vice President 
      Gwenne A. Henricks 
    Vice President 
      Denise C. Johnson 
    Vice President 
      James W. Johnson 
    Vice President 
      Kathryn Dickey Karol 
    Vice President 
      Pablo M. Koziner 
    Vice President 
      Randy M. Krotowski 
    Vice President 
      Julie A. Lagacy 
    Vice President 
      Nigel A. Lewis 
    Vice President 
      Steven W. Niehaus 
    Vice President 
      Thomas A. Pellette 
    Vice President 
      Mark E. Sweeney 
    Vice President 
      Tana L. Utley 
    Vice President 
      Karl E. Weiss 
    Vice President 
      Ramin Younessi 
    Vice President 
      Edward J. Scott 
    Treasurer 
      Amy A. Campbell 
    Chief Audit Officer 
      Christopher C. Spears 
    Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 
      Jananne A. Copeland 
    Chief Accounting Officer 
      Jill E. Daugherty 
    Controller 
      Christopher M. Reitz 
    Corporate Secretary 
      Robin D. Beran 
    Assistant Treasurer 
      Joni J. Funk 
    Assistant Secretary 
      Patrick G. Holcombe 
    Assistant Secretary 

(1)    will retire effective 4/30/2014 

A-  151 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 11
 ex21.htm
 EX-21

EX21 

EXHIBIT 21 
      CATERPILLAR INC. 
   Subsidiaries    and    Affiliated Companies  
  (as of December 31, 2013) 
    
      Subsidiaries (51% or more ownership) 
      
      Name of Company 
    Where Organized 
      Adex Zonex Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Advanced Tri-Gen Power Systems, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Amoixa Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      Anchor Coupling Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Ankexin Ex Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Asia Power Systems (Tianjin) Ltd. 
    China 
      AsiaTrak (Tianjin) Ltd. 
    China 
      Banco Caterpillar S.A. 
    Brazil 
      Berg Propulsao Maritima do Brasil LTDA 
    Brazil 
      Berg Propulsion Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      Berg Propulsion International Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Berg Propulsion International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Berg Propulsion Istanbul Makina Ticaret Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 
      Berg Propulsion Italy S.R.L. 
    Italy 
      Berg Propulsion Maritime Namibia (Proprietary) Limited 
    Namibia 
      Berg Propulsion Maritime South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Berg Propulsion Production Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Berg Propulsion Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Berg Propulsion Spain, Sociedad Limitada 
    Spain 
      Broadland Radiators and Heat Exchangers Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Bucyrus (Huainan) Machinery Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Bucyrus Africa Underground (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Bucyrus Australia Surface Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Bucyrus Australia Underground Holdings Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Bucyrus Australia Underground LAD Proprietary Limited 
    Australia 
      Bucyrus Botswana (Proprietary) Limited 
    Botswana 
      Bucyrus Central Asia LLC 
    Mongolia 
      Bucyrus Colombia S.A.S. 
    Columbia 
      Bucyrus Equipment LLC 
    Delaware 
      Bucyrus Europe Holdings, Ltd. 
    England and Wales 
      Bucyrus India Private Limited 
    India 
      Bucyrus International (Chile) Limitada 
    Chile 
      Bucyrus International (Peru) S.A. 
    Peru 
      Bucyrus International Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Bucyrus Mining Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Bucyrus Mining China LLC 
    Delaware 
      Bucyrus Wisconsin Property, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Cat Rental Kyushu Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar (Africa) (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 

1 

Caterpillar (Bermuda) Holding Company 
    Bermuda 
      Caterpillar (China) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (China) Machinery Components Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (HK) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Caterpillar (Langfang) Mining Equipment Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (Luxembourg) Investment Co. S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Caterpillar (Newberry) LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar (NI) Limited 
    Northern Ireland 
      Caterpillar (Qingzhou) Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (Suzhou) Logistics Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Caterpillar (Tongzhou) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (U.K.) Limited 
    England 
      Caterpillar (Wujiang) Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar (Zhengzhou) Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Acquisition Holding Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Americas C.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Caterpillar Americas Co. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Americas Funding Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Americas Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Asia Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Caterpillar Asia Pacific L.P. 
    Bermuda 
      Caterpillar Asia Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Caterpillar Belgium S. A. 
    Belgium 
      Caterpillar Brasil Comercio de Maquinas e Pecas Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Caterpillar Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Caterpillar Brazil LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Castings Kiel GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Centro de Formacion, S.L. 
    Spain 
      Caterpillar China Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Caterpillar CleanAIR Systems Inc 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Commercial Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Caterpillar Commercial Holding S.A.R.L. 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Commercial LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Commercial Northern Europe Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Commercial S.A. 
    Belgium 
      Caterpillar Commercial S.A.R.L. 
    France 
      Caterpillar Commercial Services S.A.R.L. 
    France 
      Caterpillar Commerciale S.r.L. 
    Italy 
      Caterpillar Communications LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Corporativo Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Credito, S.A. de C.V., SOFOM, E.N.R. 
    Mexico 

2 

Caterpillar DC Pension Trust Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Distribution International LLC 
    Russia 
      Caterpillar Distribution Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Distribution Services Europe B.V.B.A. 
    Belgium 
      Caterpillar East Japan Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar East Real Estate Holding Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar Elkader LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Energy Solutions GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Energy Solutions Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Energy Solutions, S.A. 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Engine Systems Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Equipos Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Eurasia LLC 
    Russia 
      Caterpillar Finance Corporation 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar Finance France S.A. 
    France 
      Caterpillar Financial Acquisition Funding LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Financial Australia Leasing Pty Limited 
    Australia 
      Caterpillar Financial Australia Limited 
    Australia 
      Caterpillar Financial Commercial Account Corporation 
    Nevada 
      Caterpillar Financial Corporacion Financiera, S.A., E.F.C. 
    Spain 
      Caterpillar Financial Dealer Funding LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Financial Funding Corporation 
    Nevada 
      Caterpillar Financial New Zealand Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Caterpillar Financial Nordic Services AB 
    Sweden 
      Caterpillar Financial Nova Scotia Corporation 
    Nova Scotia 
      Caterpillar Financial OOO 
    Russia 
      Caterpillar Financial Receivables Corporation 
    Nevada 
      Caterpillar Financial Renting, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Caterpillar Financial SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Financial Services (Dubai) Limited 
    United Arab Emirates 
      Caterpillar Financial Services (Ireland) plc 
    Ireland 
      Caterpillar Financial Services (UK) Limited 
    England 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Argentina S.A. 
    Argentina 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Asia Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 
    Belgium 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Financial Services CR, s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Caterpillar Financial Services GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Korea, Ltd. 
    Korea 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Leasing ULC 
    Alberta 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Limited Les Services Financiers Caterpillar Limitee 
    Canada 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Netherlands B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Norway AS 
    Norway 
      Caterpillar Financial Services Philippines Inc. 
    Philippines 

3 

Caterpillar Financial Services Poland Sp. z o.o. 
    Poland 
      Caterpillar Financial UK Acquisition Funding Partners 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Financial Ukraine LLC 
    Ukraine 
      Caterpillar Fluid Systems S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Caterpillar Fomento Comercial Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Caterpillar Forest Products Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Caterpillar GB, L.L.C. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining America LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Colombia S.A.S. 
    Columbia 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Czech Republic, a.s. 
    Czech Republic 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Equipamentos De Mineracao do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Equipment LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Europe GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Expanded Products Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Field Services LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Germany Holdings GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Highwall Miners LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining HMS GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Holdings GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Hong Kong AFC Manufacturing Holding Co., Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Caterpillar Global Mining LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Mexico LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Polska Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Caterpillar Global Mining SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Services Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Global Mining U.S. Parts LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Ukraine LLC 
    Ukraine 
      Caterpillar Global Mining Virginia LLC 
    Virginia 
      Caterpillar Global Services LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Group Services S.A. 
    Belgium 
      Caterpillar Holding (France) S.A.S. 
    France 
      Caterpillar Holding Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Holding Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Caterpillar Hungary Components Manufacturing Ltd. 
    Hungary 
      Caterpillar Hydraulics Italia S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Caterpillar Impact Products Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar India Private Limited 
    India 
      Caterpillar Industrias Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Caterpillar Insurance Company 
    Missouri 
      Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc. 
    Delaware 

4 

Caterpillar Insurance Services Corporation 
    Tennessee 
      Caterpillar International Finance Limited 
    Ireland 
      Caterpillar International Finance Luxembourg Holding S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Caterpillar International Finance Luxembourg, S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Caterpillar International Investments Co peratie U.A. 
    Netherlands 
      Caterpillar International Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Caterpillar International Luxembourg I S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Caterpillar International Product SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar International Services Corporation 
    Nevada 
      Caterpillar International Services del Peru S.A. 
    Peru 
      Caterpillar Investment Limited 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Investment One SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Investment Two SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Investments 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar IPX LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar IRB LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Japan Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar Latin America Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Latin America Services de Panama, S. de R.L. 
    Panama 
      Caterpillar Latin America Services, S.R.L. 
    Costa Rica 
      Caterpillar Latin America Servicios de Chile Limitada 
    Chile 
      Caterpillar Latin America Support Services, S. DE R.L. 
    Panama 
      Caterpillar Leasing (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Caterpillar Leasing Chile, S.A. 
    Chile 
      Caterpillar Leasing GmbH (Leipzig) 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Leasing Operativo Limitada 
    Chile 
      Caterpillar Life Insurance Company 
    Missouri 
      Caterpillar Logistics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Logistics (UK) Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Logistics Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Logistics ML Services France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Caterpillar Logistics Services (Tianjin) Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Logistics Services China Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Caterpillar Luxembourg Group S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Caterpillar Luxembourg LLC 
    Luxembourg 
      Caterpillar Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Caterpillar Marine Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Caterpillar Marine Power UK Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Marine Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Maroc SARL 
    Morocco 
      Caterpillar Materiels Routiers SAS 
    France 
      Caterpillar Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Mining Canada ULC 
    Canada 
      Caterpillar Mining Chile Servicios Limitada 
    Chile 
      Caterpillar Motoren (Guangdong) Co. Ltd. 
    China 

5 

Caterpillar Motoren GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Motoren Henstedt-Ulzburg GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Motoren Rostock GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Motoren Verwaltungs-GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar North America C.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Caterpillar NZ Funding Parent Limited 
    Bermuda 
      Caterpillar of Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Caterpillar of Canada Corporation 
    Canada 
      Caterpillar of Delaware, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Operator Training Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar Overseas Credit Corporation SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Overseas Investment Holding SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Overseas Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Overseas SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Panama Services S.A. 
    Panama 
      Caterpillar Paving Products Inc. 
    Oklahoma 
      Caterpillar Paving Products Xuzhou Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Pension Trust Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Poland Sp. z o.o. 
    Poland 
      Caterpillar Power Generations Systems (Chile) SpA 
    Chile 
      Caterpillar Power Generations Systems L.L.C. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Power Systems Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Power Ventures Europe B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Caterpillar Power Ventures International, Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Caterpillar Precision Seals Korea 
    Korea 
      Caterpillar Prodotti Stradali S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Caterpillar Product Development SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Product Services Corporation 
    Missouri 
      Caterpillar Propulsion AB 
    Sweden 
      Caterpillar Propulsion Production AB 
    Sweden 
      Caterpillar Propulsion Sweden AB 
    Sweden 
      Caterpillar Propulsion Technology AB 
    Sweden 
      Caterpillar R D Center (China) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Ramos Arizpe LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Ramos Arizpe Servicios S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Ramos Arizpe, S. de R.L. de  C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Reman Powertrain Indiana LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Reman Powertrain Services, Inc. 
    South Carolina 
      Caterpillar Remanufacturing Drivetrain LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services Chaumont France 
    France 
      Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services Radom Poland 
    Poland 
      Caterpillar Renting France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Caterpillar Reynosa, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

6 

Caterpillar Sales Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar Services Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      Caterpillar Services Limited 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Servicios Limitada 
    Chile 
      Caterpillar Servicios Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Servizi Italia Srl 
    Italy 
      Caterpillar Shrewsbury Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Sistemas De Geracao De Energia Do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Caterpillar Skinningrove Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Solution Engineering Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar Special Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 
    Belgium 
      Caterpillar Switchgear Holding Inc. 
    Georgia 
      Caterpillar Tianjin Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Tohuku Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar Torreon S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Caterpillar Tosno, L.L.C. 
    Russia 
      Caterpillar Transmissions France S.A.R.L. 
    France 
      Caterpillar Tunnelling Canada Corporation 
    Canada 
      Caterpillar Tunnelling Canada Holdings Ltd. 
    Ontario 
      Caterpillar Tunnelling Europe Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar UK Acquisition Partners LP 
    United Kingdom 
      Caterpillar UK Employee Trust Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar UK Engines Company Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar UK Group Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar UK Holdings Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Caterpillar Undercarriage (Xuzhou) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Caterpillar Underground Mining Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Caterpillar Used Equipment Services Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Used Equipment Services International SARL 
    Switzerland 
      Caterpillar West Japan Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar West Real Estate Holding Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Caterpillar Work Tools B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Caterpillar Work Tools, Inc. 
    Kansas 
      Caterpillar World Trading Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Xuzhou Ltd. 
    China 
      Centre de Distribution de Wallonie SPRL 
    Belgium 
      Chemetron-Railway Canada Corporation 
    Ontario 
      Chemetron-Railway Products, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      CSSC Motoren Anquig-Kiel Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      DEUTZ Power Systems Verwaltungs GmbH 
    Germany 
      Eastfield No 25 Limited 
    England and Wales 
      EDC European Excavator Design Center Beteiligungs-GmbH 
    Germany 
      EDC European Excavator Design Center GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      Electro-Motive Canada Co. 
    Canada 

7 

Electro-Motive Diesel and Locomotive Company (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Electro-Motive Diesel International Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Electro-Motive Diesel Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Electro-Motive Diesel, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Electro-Motive Maintenance Operations Pty Ltda. 
    Australia 
      Electro-Motive Maintenance Services, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Electro-Motive Technical Consulting Co. (Beijing) Ltd. 
    China 
      EMC Holding Corp. 
    Delaware 
      EMD International Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      EMD Locomotive Company de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      EMD Locomotive Maintenance de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      EMD Locomotive Technologies Private Limited 
    India 
      Energy Services International Limited 
    Bermuda 
      Equipment Assurance Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      Equipos de Acuna, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      ERA Mining Machinery Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Erduosi Siwei Dibite Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      F. Perkins Limited 
    England 
      FG Wilson (Engineering) Limited 
    Northern Ireland 
      GB Holdco (China), Inc. 
    Delaware 
      GFCM Servicios, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Halco America LLC 
    Georgia 
      Halco Drilling (Ireland) Limited 
    Northern Ireland 
      Halco Group Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Halco Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Halco Rock Tools Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Hong Kong Siwei Holdings Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      HSA Drilling Equipment (Pty) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Hypac (Tianjin) International Trading Company Limited 
    China 
      Hypac Holdings LLC 
    Delaware 
      Inmobiliaria Conek, S.A. 
    Mexico 
      Kentuckiana Railcar Repair   Storage Facility, LLC 
    Indiana 
      Locomotoras Progress Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Magnum Power Products, LLC 
    Delaware 
      MaK Americas Inc. 
    Illinois 
      MaK Beteiligungs GmbH 
    Germany 
      Mec-Track S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Metalmark Financial Services Limited 
    England 
      MGE Equipamentos e Servicos Ferroviarios Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Motoren Steffens GmbH 
    Germany 
      MWM (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      MWM Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      MWM Austria GmbH 
    Austria 
      MWM Benelux B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      MWM Canada Inc. 
    Canada 

8 

MWM Energy Australia Pty Ltd 
    Austalia 
      MWM Energy Hungaria Kft. 
    Hungary 
      MWM France S.A.S. 
    France 
      MWM Holding GmbH 
    Germany 
      MWM Latin America Solucoes Energeticas Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      MWM of America, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      MWM Real Estate GmbH 
    Germany 
      Necoles Investments B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      O   K Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      OOO Bucyrus Service 
    Russian Federation 
      Overseas Rail Holdings, B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      P. T. Caterpillar Finance Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      P.T. Solar Services Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      Perkins Engines (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd 
    Singapore 
      Perkins Engines Company Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Perkins Engines, Inc. 
    Maryland 
      Perkins France (S.A.S.) 
    France 
      Perkins Group Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Perkins Holdings Limited LLC 
    Delaware and   England and Wales 
      Perkins India Private Limited 
    India 
      Perkins International Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Perkins Limited 
    England 
      Perkins Motoren GmbH 
    Germany 
      Perkins Motores do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Perkins Power Systems Technology (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Perkins Shibaura Engines (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Perkins Shibaura Engines Limited 
    England 
      Perkins Shibaura Engines LLC 
    Delaware 
      Perkins Technology Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Progress Metal Reclamation Company 
    Kentucky 
      Progress Rail Canada Corporation 
    Canada 
      Progress Rail Equipment Leasing Corporation 
    Michigan 
      Progress Rail Holdings, Inc. 
    Alabama 
      Progress Rail Inspection   Information Systems GmbH 
    Germany 
      Progress Rail Inspection   Information Systems S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Progress Rail Leasing Canada Corporation 
    Canada 
      Progress Rail Leasing Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Progress Rail Manufacturing Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Progress Rail Raceland Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Progress Rail Services Corporation 
    Alabama 
      Progress Rail Services de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Progress Rail Services Holdings Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Progress Rail Services LLC 
    Delaware 
      Progress Rail Services UK Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Progress Rail Switching Services LLC 
    Delaware 

9 

Progress Rail Transcanada Corporation 
    Nova Scotia 
      Progress Rail Wildwood, LLC 
    Florida 
      Progress Vanguard Corporation 
    Delaware 
      PT. Bucyrus Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      PT. Caterpillar Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      PT. Caterpillar Indonesia Batam 
    Indonesia 
      Pyroban (Suzhou) Safety Systems Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Pyroban Benelux B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Pyroban Corporation 
    New Jersey 
      Pyroban Envirosafe Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Pyroban France SARL 
    France 
      Pyroban Group Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Pyroban Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Pyropress Engineering Company Limited (The) 
    England and Wales 
      Pyrrha Investments B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Pyrrha Investments Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Qingzhou Aoweier Engineering Machinery Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Railcar, Ltd. 
    Georgia 
      S   L Railroad, LLC 
    Nebraska 
      SCM Singapore Holdings Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Servicios Administrativos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Servicios de Turbinas Solar, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Servicios Ejecutivos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Solar Turbines (Beijing) Trading   Services Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Solar Turbines (Thailand) Ltd. 
    Thailand 
      Solar Turbines Canada Ltd./Ltee. 
    Canada 
      Solar Turbines Central Asia Limited Liability Partnership 
    Kazakhstan 
      Solar Turbines CIS Limited Liability Company 
    Russia 
      Solar Turbines EAME s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Solar Turbines Egypt L.L.C. 
    Egypt 
      Solar Turbines Europe S.A. 
    Belgium 
      Solar Turbines Incorporated 
    Delaware 
      Solar Turbines India Private Limited 
    India 
      Solar Turbines International Company 
    Delaware 
      Solar Turbines Malaysia Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 
      Solar Turbines Services Company 
    California 
      Solar Turbines Services Nigeria Limited 
    Nigeria 
      Solar Turbines Services of Argentina S.R.L. 
    Argentina 
      Solar Turbines Trinidad   Tobago Limited 
    Trinidad and Tobago 
      SPL Software Alliance LLC 
    Delaware 
      Superior Highwall Miners B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Taiyuan Siwei Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Tangshan DBT Machinery Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Tecnologia Modificada, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Tokyo Rental Ltd. 
    Japan 

10 

Turbinas Solar de Venezuela, C.A. 
    Venezuela 
      Turbinas Solar S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Turbo Tecnologia de Reparaciones S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Turbomach Endustriyel Gaz Turbinleri Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited 
    Turkey 
      Turbomach France SARL 
    France 
      Turbomach GmbH 
    Germany 
      Turbomach Netherlands B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Turbomach Pakistan (Private) Limited 
    Pakistan 
      Turbomach S.A., Unipersonal 
    Spain 
      Turbomach S.r.L. 
    Italy 
      Turbomach SA 
    Switzerland 
      Turbomach Sp. Z o.o. 
    Poland 
      Turbomach-Solar de Colombia S.A. 
    Columbia 
      Turner Powertrain Systems Limited 
    England and Wales 
      UK Hose Assembly Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Underground Imaging Technologies LLC 
    Delaware 
      United Industries Corporation 
    Kentucky 
      VALA (UK) LP 
    England and Wales 
      VALA Inc. 
    Delaware 
      VALA LLC 
    Delaware 
      Vasky Energy Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 
      Veratech Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      West Virginia Auto Shredding Inc. 
    West Virginia 
      Western Gear Machinery LLC 
    Delaware 
      Wisconsin Holdings Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Zeit Comercia e Montagem de Equipamentos Electronicos Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Zhengzhou Chengjin Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zhengzhou Jingchuang Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zhengzhou Siwei Coal Mining Machinery Rebuild Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zhengzhou Siwei Marco Automatic Control System Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Sales Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zhengzhou Siwei Xingyang Machinery Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zhengzhou Yushen Mechanical and Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Affiliated Companies (50% and less ownership) 
      
      Name of Company 
    Where Organized 
      10G LLC 
    Delaware 
      Advanced Filtration Services, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Advanced Filtration Systems Inc. 
    Delaware 
      AFSI Europe s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      AP Operation   Maintenance Limited 
    Jersey 
      Atlas Heavy Engineering Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Black Horse LLC 
    Delaware 
      Caterpillar Trimble Control Technologies LLC 
    Delaware 

11 

Datong Tongbi Machinery Company Limited 
    China 
      Electro-Motive Diesel Africa Proprietary Limited 
    South Africa 
      EQUIPX, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Heavy Haul Track Systems Joint Venture 
    Australia 
      Intelligent Switchgear Organization LLC 
    Delaware 
      Leading Edge Hydraulic Systems Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      M.O.P.E.S.A. Motores Power, S.A. 
    Mexico 
      Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift Asia Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Neovia Logistics Administrative Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    China 
      Neovia Logistics Finance Corporation 
    United States 
      Neovia Logistics France S.A.S. 
    Mexico 
      Neovia Logistics Germany GmbH 
    Egypt 
      Neovia Logistics Holdings I S.a r l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Neovia Logistics Holdings II S.a r l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Neovia Logistics IP Holdings, LLC 
    United States 
      Neovia Logistics Limited Liability Company 
    Hungary 
      Neovia Logistics Real Estate Holdings, LLC 
    United States 
      Neovia Logistics Services (France) S.A.S. 
    France 
      Neovia Logistics Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Neovia Logistics Services (UK) Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Neovia Logistics Services Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Neovia Logistics Services Canada Ltd. 
    Canada 
      Neovia Logistics Services de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Neovia Logistics Services Egypt Ltd. 
    Egypt 
      Neovia Logistics Services India Private Limited 
    India 
      Neovia Logistics Services International LLC 
    Russia 
      Neovia Logistics Services International N.V. 
    Belgium 
      Neovia  Logistics Services Polska Sp. z o.o. 
    Delaware 
      Neovia Logistics Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd. 
    Poland 
      Neovia Logistics Services Spain, S.A. 
    South Africa 
      Neovia Logistics Services, LLC 
    Belgium 
      Neovia Logistics Supply Chain Services GmbH 
    Germany 
      Neovia Logistics Supply Chain Services Italia S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Neovia Logistics, LLC 
    United States 
      Neovia Solutions Brasil Servicos De Logistica Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Shanxi Xishan Siwei Mechanical   Electrical Equipment Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      SPL Logistics France Sarl 
    France 
      SPL Logistics Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      SPL Logistics Intermediate Holdings, LLC 
    United States 
      SPL Logistics UK Holdings Limited 
    England and Wales 
      Suzhou Liaoan Machinery Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Tech Itoh Co., Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Terex NHL Mining Equipment Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Turboservices SDN BHD 
    Malaysia 
      Vector Hydraulics Private Limited 
    India 

12 

VirtualSite Solutions LLC 
    Delaware 
      Xi an FC Intelligence Transmission Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Yeep Co. 
    Japan 
      Yuchai Remanufacturing Services (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Zoko Rail Services (Z.P.) Ltd. 
    Israel 

13 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 12
 cat_exx23x12312013.htm
 EX-23

CAT_EX_23_12.31.2013 

EXHIBIT 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-184729, 333-43133, 33-46194, 333-22041, 333-43983, 333-57512, 333-136265, 333-71468, 333-135465, 33-40393, 33-39120, 333-159262, 333-162837, 333-135123), Form S-4 (Nos. 333-183774, 333-121003) and Form S-8 (Nos. 2-97450, 333-37353, 33-8003, 333-03609, 333-41464, 333-98197, 333-115837, 333-32853, 333-32851, 333-111355, 333-128342, 333-135467, 333-133275, 333-133266, 333-133265, 333-141548, 333-170405, 333-170403, 333-170399, 333-168894, 333-168868, 333-168867, 333-186742, 333-186744, 333-192766) of Caterpillar Inc. of our report dated   February 18, 2014   relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10 K. 

/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  Peoria, Illinois 
  February 18, 2014    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 cat_exx311x12312013.htm
 EX-31.1

CAT_EX_31.1_12.31.2013 

EXHIBIT 31.1 
      SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION 
      I, Douglas R. Oberhelman, certify that: 
      1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Caterpillar Inc.; 
      2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
      3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
      4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
        
    a) 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
        
    b) 
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
        
    c) 
    
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
        
    d) 
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
      5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
        
    a) 
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
        
    b) 
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

February 18, 2014 
      
    /s/Douglas R. Oberhelman 
      
    Chairman of the Board and   Chief Executive Officer 

(Douglas R. Oberhelman) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 cat_exx312x12312013.htm
 EX-31.2

CAT_EX_31.2_12.31.2013 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
      SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION 
      I, Bradley M. Halverson, certify that: 
      1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Caterpillar Inc.; 
      2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
      3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
      4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
        
    a) 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
        
    b) 
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
        
    c) 
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
        
    d) 
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
      5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
        
    a) 
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
        
    b) 
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

February 18, 2014 
      
    /s/Bradley M. Halverson 
      
    Group President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 

(Bradley M. Halverson) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 15
 cat_exx32x12312013.htm
 EX-32

CAT_EX_32_12.31.2013 

EXHIBIT 32 
    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  In connection with the annual report of Caterpillar Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending   December 31, 2013   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of our knowledge: 
    
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934; and 
       
           (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Chairman of the Board and 
      February 18, 2014 
    /s/Douglas R. Oberhelman 
      
    Chief Executive Officer 
        
    (Douglas R. Oberhelman) 

Group President and 
      February 18, 2014 
    /s/Bradley M. Halverson 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
        
    (Bradley M. Halverson) 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Caterpillar Inc. and will be retained by Caterpillar Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-95>
 16
 cat_exx95x12312013.htm
 EX-95

CAT_EX_95_12.31.2013 

Exhibit 95 
    
  Mine Safety Disclosures 

</EX-95>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 cat-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 cat-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 cat-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 cat-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 21
 cat-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 22
 cat-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

10-K
 23
 final10k2013pdfwithexhibits.pdf
 10-K PDF WITH EXHIBITS

