<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_1326160_0001193125-09-041096_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4948904</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1321361</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>746510</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2330929</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>202</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-041096.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227164805
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-041096
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Duke Energy CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001326160
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED [4931]
		IRS NUMBER:				202777218
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32853
		FILM NUMBER:		09643771

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		526 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
		STREET 2:		EC03T
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		704-594-6200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		526 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
		STREET 2:		EC03T
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28202

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Duke Energy Holding Corp.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20050628

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Deer Holding Corp.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20050504

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Adn25fUHdHaXg4dw3tY92T+cjYUsT+bRYAqE+BypOc+O5FIMShieTWrN77f6YQtJ
 GI8skDCGKkPbDWKvHDMGkQ==

 0001193125-09-041096.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

   UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549             FORM
10-K             FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS      PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934            (Mark One)                       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2008 or                       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the transition period   from                          to
                                  Commission file number 1-32853             DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)         
          704-594-6200      (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:         

Title of each
class                                        

Name of each exchange on which registered   

Common Stock, $0.001 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange, Inc.   
          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes         No                    Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes         No                    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes         No                    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
 large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):         

Large accelerated filer         

Accelerated filer            
 
    Non-accelerated filer         

Smaller reporting company            
 
  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes         No           

Table of Contents  

     TABLE OF CONTENTS             DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION        FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED        DECEMBER 31, 2008          

Item    

Page    
 
    PART I.     

1.  
      
   BUSINESS   
      
  3   

GENERAL    
      
  3   

U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS    
      
  8   

COMMERCIAL POWER    
      
  20   

INTERNATIONAL ENERGY    
      
  24   

OTHER    
      
  25   

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS    
      
  26   

GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS    
      
  27   

EMPLOYEES    
      
  27   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF DUKE ENERGY    
      
  27   

1A.  
      
   RISK FACTORS   
      
  28   

1B.  
      
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
      
  35   

2.  
      
   PROPERTIES   
      
  35   

3.  
      
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
      
  37   

4.  
      
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
      
  37   

PART II.     

5.  
      
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
      
  38   

6.  
      
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
      
  40   

7.  
      
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
      
  42   

7A.  
      
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
      
  82   

8.  
      
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
      
  83   

9.  
      
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
      
  196   

9A.  
      
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
      
  196   

PART III.     

10.  
      
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
      
  197   

11.  
      
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
      
  197   

12.  
      
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
      
  197   

13.  
      
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
      
  197   

14.  
      
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
      
  197   

PART IV.     

15.  
      
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
      
  198   

SIGNATURES    
      
  199   

EXHIBIT INDEX    
      
  E-1   
          CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
INFORMATION            This document includes forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management s beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified
by terms and phrases such as  anticipate,   believe,   intend,   estimate,   expect,   continue,   should,   could,   may,   plan, 
 project,   predict,   will,   potential,   forecast,   target,  and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be
materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to:   

State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements;

State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives and rulings that affect cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures;

Costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims;      

Industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke Energy Corporation s (Duke Energy) service territories;      

Additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation;      

Political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business;      

The influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy s operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts
and tornados;      

The timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates;      

Unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints;      

The performance of electric generation and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy s non-regulated businesses;      

The results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy s ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke
Energy s credit ratings and general economic conditions;      

Declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy s defined benefit pension plans;      

The level of credit worthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy s transactions;      

Employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel;      

Growth in opportunities for Duke Energy s business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects;

Construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy s capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including risks
related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from ratepayers in a timely
manner;      

The effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and      

The ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans.         In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke
Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.   

Table of Contents  

     PART I               Item 1. Business.                GENERAL        Overview.  Duke Energy Corporation
(collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company located primarily in the Americas that provides its services through the business units described below.      In the second quarter of 2006, Duke Energy and Cinergy Corp. (Cinergy) consummated a merger which combined the Duke Energy and Cinergy regulated franchises, as well
as deregulated generation in the Midwestern United States.       Duke Energy Holding Corp. (Duke Energy HC) was incorporated in Delaware on May 3,
2005 as Deer Holding Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy Corporation (Old Duke Energy, for purposes of this discussion regarding the merger). On April 3, 2006, in accordance with the merger agreement, Old Duke Energy and Cinergy
merged into wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy HC, resulting in Duke Energy HC becoming the parent entity. In connection with the closing of the merger transactions, Duke Energy HC changed its name to Duke Energy Corporation (New Duke Energy
or Duke Energy) and Old Duke Energy converted into a limited liability company named Duke Power Company LLC (subsequently renamed Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas) effective October 1, 2006). As a result of the merger
transaction, each outstanding share of Cinergy common stock was converted into 1.56 shares of common stock of Duke Energy, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 313 million shares of Duke Energy common stock. Additionally, each share
of common stock of Old Duke Energy was converted into one share of Duke Energy common stock. Old Duke Energy is the predecessor of Duke Energy for purposes of U.S. securities regulations governing financial statement filing. Therefore, the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the results of operations of Old Duke Energy for the three months ended March 31, 2006. New Duke Energy had separate operations for the period beginning with the effective date of the
Cinergy merger, and references to amounts for periods after the closing of the merger relate to New Duke Energy. Cinergy s results have been included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations from the effective date of
acquisition and thereafter (see  Cinergy Merger  in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets ). Both Old Duke Energy and New Duke Energy are referred
to as Duke Energy hereinafter.       On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses, named Spectra Energy
Corp. (Spectra Energy), including its wholly-owned subsidiary Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Energy Capital, formerly Duke Capital LLC). The natural gas businesses spun off primarily consisted of Duke Energy s Natural Gas Transmission
business segment and Duke Energy s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream, LLC (DCP Midstream, formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC), which was part of the Field Services business segment. The results of operations of these businesses are
presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods prior to the spin-off. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. 
     During the third quarter of 2005, Duke Energy s Board of Directors authorized and directed management to execute the sale or disposition of
substantially all of former Duke Energy North America s (DENA) remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets. The exit plan was completed in the second
quarter of 2006. Certain assets of the former DENA business were transferred to the Commercial Power business segment and certain operations that Duke Energy continues to wind-down are in Other. The results of operations of the former DENA
businesses which Duke Energy exited have been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods prior to the completion of the exit activities.       Business Segments.  At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy operated the following business segments, all of which are considered reportable segments under the
provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information , : U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas,
Commercial Power and International Energy. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent was a reportable business segment of Duke Energy; however, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent is no longer considered an operating segment of
Duke Energy as Duke Energy s chief operating decision maker no longer reviews Crescent s operating results in order to make resource allocation decisions and evaluate its performance. Accordingly, the results of Crescent have been included
in Other for all periods presented. Prior to Duke Energy s sale of an effective 50% ownership interest in Crescent in September 2006 (see below), the then Crescent segment represented Duke Energy s 100% ownership of Crescent Resources,
LLC. Duke Energy s chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. For additional information on each of these business
segments, including financial and geographic information about each reportable business segment, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Business Segments.          
   3   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            The following is a brief description of the nature of operations of each of Duke Energy s reportable business segments, as well as Other.       U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas.  U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in central and western North
Carolina, western South Carolina, southwestern Ohio, central, north central and southern Indiana, and northern Kentucky. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas also transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. It conducts
operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana) and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky). These electric and gas
operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(PUCO), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC). Substantially all of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  operations are regulated and, accordingly, these operations are accounted for
under the provisions of SFAS No. 71,   Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,   (SFAS No. 71).        Commercial Power  .  Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these plants as well as other
contractual positions. Commercial Power s generation asset fleet consists of Duke Energy Ohio s non-regulated generation in Ohio, acquired from Cinergy in April 2006, and the five Midwestern gas-fired non-regulated generation assets that
were a portion of the former DENA operations. Commercial Power s assets, excluding wind energy generation assets, comprise approximately 7,550 net megawatts (MW) of power generation primarily located in the Midwestern U.S. The asset portfolio
has a diversified fuel mix with baseload and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural gas-fired units. Most of the generation asset output in Ohio has been contracted through the Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP), which
expired on December 31, 2008; effective January 1, 2009 Commercial Power began operating under an Electric Security Plan (ESP), which expires on December 31, 2011. As a result of the approval of the ESP, certain of Commercial
Power s operations are accounted for under SFAS No. 71 effective December 17, 2008. For more information on the RSP and ESP, as well as the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain of its operations, see the  Commercial
Power  section below. Through Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. and its affiliates (DEGS), Commercial Power develops, owns and operates electric generation for large energy consumers, municipalities, utilities and industrial facilities.
DEGS currently manages 6,300 MW of power generation at 21 facilities throughout the U.S. In addition, DEGS engages in the development, construction and operation of wind energy projects. Currently, DEGS has over 5,000 MW of wind energy projects in
the development pipeline with approximately 370 net MW of wind generating capacity in operation as of December 31, 2008. In 2008, DEGS initiated a joint venture with Areva Inc. named ADAGE, LLC, to develop, design, build, and operate wood
burning biomass power plants in the U.S.        International Energy  .  International Energy owns, operates and manages power generation
facilities, and engages in sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas outside the U.S. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy International, LLC (DEI) and its activities target power generation in Latin America.
Additionally, International Energy owns equity investments in Saudi Arabia and Greece.       Other  .  The remainder of Duke Energy s
operations is presented as Other. While it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain unallocated corporate costs, Crescent, DukeNet Communications, LLC (DukeNet) and related telecom businesses and Bison Insurance Company
Limited (Bison), Duke Energy s wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. Additionally, Other includes the remaining portion of Duke Energy s business formerly known as DENA that was not exited or transferred to Commercial Power,
primarily Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM), which management is currently in the process of winding down. Unallocated corporate costs include certain costs not allocable to Duke Energy s reportable business segments, primarily
governance costs, costs to achieve mergers and divestitures (such as the Cinergy merger and spin-off of Spectra Energy) and costs associated with certain corporate severance programs. Crescent develops and manages high-quality commercial,
residential and multi-family real estate projects primarily in the Southeastern and Southwestern U.S. Some of these projects are developed and managed through joint ventures. Crescent also manages  legacy  land holdings in North and South
Carolina. DukeNet develops, owns and operates a fiber optic communications network, primarily in the Carolinas, serving wireless, local and long-distance communications companies, internet service providers and other businesses and organizations.
Bison s principal activities as a captive insurance entity include the insurance and reinsurance of various business risks and losses, such as workers compensation, property, business interruption and general liability of subsidiaries and
affiliates of Duke Energy. On a limited basis, Bison also participates in reinsurance activities with certain third parties.       General.  Duke
Energy is a Delaware corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 526 South Church Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. The telephone number is 704-594-6200. Duke Energy electronically files reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies and amendments to such reports. The public may read and copy any materials that Duke Energy files with the SEC at
the SEC s Public  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           
 Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at  http://www.sec.gov . Additionally, information
about Duke Energy, including its reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy s web site at  http://www.duke-energy.com . Such reports are accessible at no charge through Duke Energy s web site and are made available
as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.             GLOSSARY OF TERMS       The following terms or acronyms used in this Form 10-K are defined below:   

Term or Acronym    
      
     Definition     
 
  AAC  
      
  Annually Adjusted Component   

AFUDC  
      
  Allowance for Funds Used During Construction   

AOCI  
      
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income   

APB  
      
  Accounting Principles Board   

ARO  
      
  Asset Retirement Obligation   

Attiki  
      
  Attiki Gas Supply S.A.   

Bison  
      
  Bison Insurance Company Limited   

BPM  
      
  Bulk Power Marketing   

BREDL  
      
  Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League   

Bridgeport  
      
  Bridgeport Energy LLC   

CAA  
      
  Clean Air Act   

CAIR  
      
  Clean Air Interstate Rule   

Campeche  
      
  Compa  a de Servicios de Compresi n de Campeche, S.A. de C.V.   

CAMR  
      
  Clean Air Mercury Rule   

CC  
      
  Combined Cycle   

CMT  
      
  Cinergy Marketing and Trading, LP, and Cinergy Canada, Inc.   

CT  
      
  Combustion Turbine   

Cinergy  
      
  Cinergy Corp.   

CO 2   
      
  Carbon Dioxide   

COL  
      
  Combined Construction and Operating License   

CPCN  
      
  Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity   

Crescent  
      
  Crescent Resources, LLC   

DB  
      
  Defined Benefit Pension Plan   

DCP Midstream  
      
  DCP Midstream, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)   

DEGS  
      
  Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc.   

DEI  
      
  Duke Energy International, LLC   

DEM  
      
  Duke Energy Merchants, LLC   

DENA  
      
  Duke Energy North America   

DENR  
      
  Department of Environment and Natural Resources   

DETM  
      
  Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC   

DOE  
      
  Department of Energy   
 
  DOJ  
      
  Department of Justice   
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

   PART I         

Term or Acronym    
      
     Definition     

DSM  
      
  Demand Side Management   

Duke Energy  
      
  Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries)   

Duke Energy Carolinas  
      
  Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC   

Duke Energy Indiana  
      
  Duke Energy Indiana, Inc.   

Duke Energy Kentucky  
      
  Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc.   

Duke Energy Ohio  
      
  Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.   

EITF  
      
  Emerging Issues Task Force   

EPA  
      
  Environmental Protection Agency   

EPS  
      
  Earnings Per Share   

ESP  
      
  Electric Security Plan   

EWG  
      
  Exempt Wholesale Generator   

FASB  
      
  Financial Accounting Standards Board   

FEED  
      
  Front End Engineering and Design Study   

FERC  
      
  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission   

FIN  
      
  Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation   

FPP  
      
  Fuel and Purchased Power   

FSP  
      
  Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position   

FTC  
      
  Federal Trade Commission   

GAAP  
      
  United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles   

GCSA  
      
  Gas Compression Services Agreement   

IGCC  
      
  Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle   

IRS  
      
  Internal Revenue Service   

ISO  
      
  Independent Transmission System Operator   

IURC  
      
  Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission   

KPSC  
      
  Kentucky Public Service Commission   

LIBOR  
      
  London Interbank Offered Rate   

LS Power  
      
  LS Power Equity Partners   

MACT  
      
  Maximum achievable control technology   

MBSSO  
      
  Market-Based Standard Service Offer   

Mcf  
      
  Thousand cubic feet   

MMBtu  
      
  Million British Thermal   

Moody s  
      
  Moody s Investor Services   

Modernization Act  
      
  Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act   

MRO  
      
  Market Rate Option   

MSREF  
      
  Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V U.S., L.P.   

MTBE  
      
  Methyl tertiary butyl ether   

MW  
      
  Megawatt   

NCUC  
      
  North Carolina Utilities Commission   

NDTF  
      
  Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds   
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

   PART I         

Term or Acronym    
      
     Definition     

NEIL  
      
  Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited   

NERC  
      
  North American Electric Reliability Council   

NMC  
      
  National Methanol Company   

NOx  
      
  Nitrogen oxide   

NRC  
      
  Nuclear Regulatory Commission   

OCC  
      
  Office of the Ohio Consumers  Counsel   

OIL  
      
  Oil Insurance Limited   

ORS  
      
  South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff   

OUCC  
      
  Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor   

PEMEX  
      
  Mexican National Oil Company   

PSCSC  
      
  Public Service Commission of South Carolina   

PUCO  
      
  Public Utilities Commission of Ohio   

PUHCA  
      
  Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended   

PV  
      
  Photovoltaic   

RSP  
      
  Rate Stabilization Plan   

RTO  
      
  Regional Transmission Organization   

SAB  
      
  Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin   

SB 221  
      
  Ohio Senate Bill 221   

sEnergy  
      
  sEnergy Insurance Limited   

SEC  
      
  Securities and Exchange Commission   

SFAS  
      
  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards   

SO 2   
      
  Sulfur dioxide   

SPE  
      
  Special Purpose Entity   

Spectra Energy  
      
  Spectra Energy Corp.   

Spectra Capital  
      
  Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (formerly Duke Capital LLC)   

SRT  
      
  System Reliability Tracker   

S P  
      
  Standard   Poor s   

Synfuel  
      
  Synthetic Fuel   

TEPPCO GP  
      
  Texas Eastern Products Pipeline Company, LLC   

TEPPCO LP  
      
  TEPPCO Partners, L.P.   

UBE  
      
  United Bridgeport Energy LLC   

VIE  
      
  Variable Interest Entity   

WARN  
      
  North Carolina Waste Awareness Reduction Network   

Westcoast  
      
  Westcoast Energy, Inc.   
    The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy s reportable business
segments, as well as Other. (For more information on the operating outlook of Duke Energy and its reportable segments, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Introduction Executive
Overview and Economic Factors for Duke Energy s Business . For financial information on Duke Energy s reportable business segments, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Business Segments. )         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   PART I               U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS              Service Area and Customers       U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas generates,
transmits, distributes and sells electricity and transports and sells natural gas. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky (Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana
and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest). Its service area covers about 48,000 square miles with an estimated population of 11 million in central and western North Carolina, western South Carolina, southwestern
Ohio, central, north central and southern Indiana, and northern Kentucky. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas supplies electric service to approximately 4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers over 150,900 miles of distribution
lines and a 20,900 mile transmission system. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas provides domestic regulated transmission and distribution services for natural gas to approximately 500,000 customers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky via
approximately 7,200 miles of gas mains (gas distribution lines that serve as a common source of supply for more than one service line) and service lines. Electricity is also sold wholesale to incorporated municipalities and to public and private
utilities. In addition, municipal and cooperative customers who purchased portions of the power generated by the Catawba Nuclear Station may also buy power from a variety of suppliers, including Duke Energy Carolinas, through contractual agreements.
For more information on the Catawba Nuclear Station joint ownership, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Joint Ownership of Generating and Transmission Facilities.       Duke Energy Carolinas  service area has a diversified commercial and industrial presence. Manufacturing continues to be the largest contributor to the economy
in the region. Other sectors such as finance, insurance, real estate services, and local government also constitute key components of the states  gross domestic product. Chemicals, food, electronics and motor vehicle manufacturing industries
were the most significant contributors to the area s manufacturing output. In contrast, the majority of Duke Energy Carolinas  industrial and commercial electric sales revenue for 2008 came from the textiles industry, which continues to
decline, real estate and education services sectors.      Duke Energy Carolinas has business development strategies to leverage the competitive advantages
of its service territory to attract and expand advanced manufacturing and data intensive businesses. These competitive advantages, including a quality workforce, strong educational institutions, superior transportation infrastructure and competitive
electric rates approximately 30% below the national average were key factors in attracting new businesses. The success in attracting new companies, as well as expanding the operations of existing customers, partially offset the sales declines in the
industries like apparel, textile and furniture in 2008.      Duke Energy Ohio s and Duke Energy Kentucky s service area both have a diversified
commercial and industrial presence. Major components of the economy include manufacturing, real estate and rental leasing, wholesale trade, financial and insurance services, retail trade, education, healthcare and professional/business
services.      The primary metals industry, transportation equipment, chemicals, and paper and plastics were the most significant contributors to the
area s manufacturing output and Duke Energy Ohio s and Duke Energy Kentucky s industrial sales revenue for 2008. Food and beverage manufacturing, fabricated metals, and electronics also have a strong impact on the area s economic
growth and the region s industrial sales.      Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky have business development strategies to leverage the
competitive advantages of the Greater Cincinnati Region to attract and expand advanced manufacturing and life sciences sectors. The availability of a highly skilled workforce, superior highway access, low cost of living, and proximity to markets and
raw materials are key factors in attracting new customers in the aerospace, transportation, food manufacturing, chemical manufacturing, plastics and Information technology industries.      Industries of major economic significance in Duke Energy Indiana s service territory include food products, stone, clay and glass, primary metals, and
transportation. Other significant industries operating in the area include chemicals, fabricated metal, and other manufacturing. Key sectors among general service customers include education and retail trade.      Duke Energy Indiana has business development strategies to leverage the competitive advantages of the Indiana region to attract new advanced manufacturing,
logistics, life sciences and data center business to Duke Energy Indiana s service territory. These advantages, including competitive electric rates, a strong transportation network, excellent institutions of higher learning, and a quality
workforce, are key in attracting new customers and encouraging existing customer expansions. This ability to attract business investment in the service territory helped balance the decline in sales in the stone, clay and glass,
primary metals and other manufacturing and transportation equipment sector in 2008.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            The number of residential and general service customers within the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  service territory continues to increase. As a result,
sales to these customers are increasing due to the growth in these sectors, although near-term growth is being hampered by the current economic conditions. As sales to residential and commercial customers are expected to increase over the coming
years, the level of sales to industrial customers becomes a smaller, yet still significant, portion of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas sales.      U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas  costs and revenues are influenced by seasonal patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, resulting in higher revenue and cash flows during those periods. By contrast, fewer sales
of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance during those periods. Peak gas sales occur during the winter months.      The following maps show the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  service territories and operating facilities.           

9   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           

             Energy Capacity and Resources              Electric energy for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  customers is generated
by three nuclear generating stations with a combined net capacity of 5,173 MW (including Duke Energy s approximate 19% ownership in the Catawba Nuclear Station), fifteen coal-fired stations with a combined net capacity of 13,472 MW (including
Duke Energy s 69% ownership in the East Bend Steam Station and 50.05% ownership in Unit 5 of the Gibson Steam Station), thirty-one hydroelectric stations (including two pumped-storage facilities) with a combined net capacity of 3,263 MW,
fifteen combustion turbine (CT) stations burning natural gas, oil or other fuels with a combined net capacity of 5,245 MW and one combined cycle (CC) station burning natural gas with a net capacity of 285 MW. Energy and capacity are also supplied
through contracts with other generators and purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas to purchase power for its customers include generating plant outages, extreme weather conditions, summer reliability,
growth, and price. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and energy, and reliability of power supply.
      U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and
fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve native-load customers. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time
basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements. The vast majority of customer energy needs are met by large, low-energy-production-cost nuclear and coal-fired generating units that operate almost
continuously (or at baseload levels). In 2008, approximately 99.0% of the total generated energy came from U.S Franchised Electric and Gas  low-cost, efficient nuclear and coal units (66.9% coal and 32.1% nuclear). The remaining energy needs
were supplied by hydroelectric, CT and CC generation or economic purchases from the wholesale market.      Hydroelectric (both conventional and pumped
storage) in the Carolinas and gas/oil CT and CC stations in both the Carolinas and Midwest operate primarily during the peak-hour load periods (at peaking levels) when customer loads are rapidly changing. CT s and CC s produce energy at
higher production costs than either nuclear or coal, but are less expensive to build and maintain, and can be rapidly started or stopped as needed to meet changing customer loads. Hydroelectric units produce low-cost energy, but their operations are
limited by the availability of water flow.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  major pumped-storage hydroelectric facilities offer the added flexibility of using low-cost off-peak energy to pump water
that will be stored for later generation use during times of higher-cost on-peak generation periods. These facilities allow U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas to maximize the value spreads between different high- and low-cost generation periods.
      U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is engaged in planning efforts to meet projected load growth in its service territories. Long-term
projections indicate a need for significant capacity additions, which may include new nuclear, integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC), coal facilities or gas-fired generation units. Because of the long lead times required to develop such
assets, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is taking steps now to ensure those options are available. Significant current or potential future capital projects are discussed below.        William States Lee III Nuclear Station.   On December 12, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
(NRC) for a combined construction and operating license (COL) for two Westinghouse AP1000 (advanced passive) reactors for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station at a site in Cherokee County, South Carolina. Each reactor is capable of
producing approximately 1,117 MW. Submitting the COL application does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build nuclear units. On February 25, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas received confirmation from the NRC that its COL application has been
accepted and docketed for the next stage of review. On June 27, 2008, the Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League (BREDL) filed a petition to intervene in the COL proceeding before the NRC. On September 22, 2008, the Atomic Safety and
Licensing Board issued a decision denying BREDL s Petition to Intervene and Request for Hearing. BREDL did not appeal the decision. On December 7, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed applications with the NCUC and the PSCSC for approval of
Duke Energy Carolinas  decision to incur development costs associated with the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station. The NCUC had previously approved Duke Energy Carolinas  decision to incur the North Carolina allocable share of
up to $125 million in development costs through 2007. The 2007 requests cover a total of up to $230 million in pre-construction development costs through 2009, which is comprised of $70 million incurred through December 31, 2007 plus an
additional $160 million of anticipated costs in 2008 and 2009. The PSCSC approved Duke Energy Carolinas  Lee Nuclear project development cost application on June 9, 2008, and the NCUC issued its approval order on June 11, 2008. On
July 24, 2008, environmental intervenors filed motions to rescind or amend the approval orders issued by the NCUC and the PSCSC, and Duke Energy Carolinas subsequently filed responses in opposition to the motions. On August 13 and
August 25, 2008, the PSCSC and NCUC denied the environmental intervenor motions. The NRC review of the COL application is ongoing and the current schedule concludes the COL may be granted in early 2012.         Cliffside Unit 6.   On June 2, 2006, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
(CPCN) to construct two 800 MW state of the art coal generation units at its existing Cliffside Steam Station in North Carolina. On March 21, 2007, the NCUC issued an Order allowing Duke Energy Carolinas to build one 800 MW unit. The
NCUC s Order explained the basis for its decision to approve construction of one unit, with an approved cost estimate of $1.93 billion (including allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC)), and included certain conditions including
providing for updates on construction cost estimates. On February 29, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed its updated cost estimate of $1.8 billion (excluding approximately $600 million of AFUDC) for the approved new Cliffside Unit 6. Duke Energy
Carolinas believes that the overall cost of Cliffside Unit 6 will be reduced by approximately $125 million in federal advanced clean coal tax credits. On February 20, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into an amended and restated engineering,
procurement, construction and commissioning services agreement, valued at approximately $1.3 billion, with an affiliate of The Shaw Group, Inc., of which approximately $950 million relates to participation in the construction of Cliffside Unit 6,
with the remainder related to a flue gas desulfurization system on an existing unit at Cliffside.      On January 29, 2008, the North Carolina
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) issued a final air permit for the new Cliffside Unit 6 and on-site construction has begun. In March 2008, four contested case petitions were filed appealing the final air permit. Duke Energy has
intervened in all four cases, which have been consolidated. A hearing is not expected before the end of 2009.         Dan River and Buck Steam
Stations.   On June 29, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed with the NCUC preliminary CPCN information to construct a 620 MW combined cycle natural gas-fired generating facility at its existing Dan River Steam Station, as well as updated
preliminary CPCN information to construct a 620 MW combined cycle natural gas-fired generating facility at its existing Buck Steam Station. On December 14, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed CPCN applications for the two combined cycle
facilities. The NCUC consolidated its consideration of the two CPCN applications and held an evidentiary hearing on the applications on March 11, 2008. The NCUC issued its order approving the CPCN applications for the Buck and Dan River
combined cycle projects on June 5, 2008. On May 5, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into an engineering, construction and commissioning services agreement for the Buck combined cycle project, valued at approximately $275 million, with
Shaw North Carolina, Inc. On November 5, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas notified the NCUC that since the issuance of the CPCN Order, recent economic factors have caused increased uncertainty with regard to forecasted load and near-term capital
expenditures, which has resulted in a modification of the construction schedule. Under the revised schedule, the Buck Project is  
        
   11   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            
 expected to be delayed for a period of up to one year and is currently anticipated to begin operation in simple cycle mode in summer 2011 and is expected to convert to
combined cycle mode in summer 2012. The Dan River Project is expected to begin operation in combined cycle mode in 2012 as originally planned, but without a phased-in simple cycle commercial operation.        Edwardsport IGCC.   On September 7, 2006, Duke Energy Indiana and Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company d/b/a Vectren Energy Delivery of
Indiana (Vectren) filed a joint petition with the IURC seeking a CPCN for the construction of a 630 MW IGCC power plant at Duke Energy Indiana s Edwardsport Generating Station in Knox County, Indiana. The petition describes the applicants 
need for additional base load generating capacity and requests timely recovery of all construction and operating costs related to the proposed generating station, including financing costs, together with certain incentive ratemaking treatment. In
April 2007, Duke Energy Indiana and Vectren filed a Front End Engineering and Design (FEED) Study Report which included an updated estimated cost for the IGCC project of approximately $2 billion (including approximately $120 million of AFUDC). In
June 2007, Vectren decided not to proceed with the CPCN petition, and in August 2007, Vectren formally withdrew its participation in the IGCC plant. In June 2007, a hearing was conducted on the CPCN petition based on Duke Energy Indiana owning 100%
of the project. On November 20, 2007, the IURC issued an order granting Duke Energy Indiana a CPCN for the proposed IGCC project, approved the cost estimate of $1.985 billion and approved the timely recovery of costs related to the project.
      On May 1, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana filed its first semi-annual IGCC Rider and ongoing review proceeding with the IURC as required under
the CPCN order issued by the IURC in November 2007, which approved the IGCC Project. In its filing, Duke Energy Indiana requested approval of a new cost estimate for the IGCC Project of $2.35 billion (including approximately $125 million of AFUDC)
and for approval of plans to study carbon capture as required by the IURC s November 2007 CPCN Order. An evidentiary hearing was conducted on August 25, 2008. On January 7, 2009, the IURC approved Duke Energy Indiana s request,
including the new cost estimate of $2.35 billion, and cost recovery associated with a study on carbon capture. On November 3, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana filed its second semi-annual IGCC rider and ongoing review proceeding with the IURC. Duke
Energy Indiana was also required to file its plans for studying carbon storage related to the project within 60 days of the order. Under the CPCN order and statutory provisions, Duke Energy Indiana is entitled to recover the costs reasonably
incurred in reliance on the CPCN Order. Duke Energy Indiana has begun construction on the Edwardsport IGCC plant and entered into a $200 million engineering, procurement and construction management agreement with Bechtel Power Corporation in
December 2008 in connection with the construction of the plant.      See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters, 
for further discussion on the above in-process or potential construction projects.             Fuel Supply       U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas relies principally on coal and nuclear fuel for its generation of electric energy. The
following table lists U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  sources of power and fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2008.         

(a)  
  Statistics related to coal generation and all fuels reflect U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  69% ownership interest in the East Bend Steam Station and 50.05% ownership interest in Unit
5 of the Gibson Steam Station.     

(b)  
  Statistics related to nuclear generation and all fuels reflect U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  12.5% interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station through September 30, 2008 and an
approximate 19% ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station from October 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008.     

(c)  
  Cost statistics include amounts for light-off fuel at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  coal-fired stations.     

(d)  
  Generating figures are net of output required to replenish pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods.     

(e)  
  Includes legacy Cinergy regulated operations from the date of acquisition (April 3, 2006) and thereafter.          Coal.   U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas meets its coal demand in the Carolinas and Midwest through a portfolio of purchase supply contracts and spot
agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under supply contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas uses spot-market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by supply
contracts. Expiration dates for its supply contracts, which have various price adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range from 2009 to 2013. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts
with other  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           
 suppliers for the quantities and quality of coal required as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. The coal
purchased for the Carolinas is primarily produced from mines in eastern Kentucky, West Virginia and southwestern Virginia. The coal purchased for the regulated Midwest entities is primarily produced in Indiana, Illinois, and Kentucky. U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas has an adequate supply of coal to fuel its projected 2009 operations and a significant portion of supply to fuel its projected 2010 operations.      The current average sulfur content of coal purchased by U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas for the Carolinas is
approximately 1%; however, as Carolinas coal plants continue to bring on scrubbers over the next several years, the sulfur content of coal purchased could increase as higher sulfur coal options are considered. The current average sulfur content of
coal purchased by U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas for the Midwest is approximately 2%. Coupled with the use of available sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) emission allowances on the open market, this satisfies the current emission limitations for
SO 2  for existing facilities in the Carolinas and Midwest.        Gas  . U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is responsible for the
purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to native load customers in its Ohio and Kentucky service territories. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  natural gas procurement strategy is to buy firm natural gas supplies (natural gas
intended to be available at all times) and firm interstate pipeline transportation capacity during the winter season (November through March) and during the non-heating season (April through October) through a combination of firm supply
and transportation capacity along with spot supply and interruptible transportation capacity. This strategy allows U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas to assure reliable natural gas supply for its high priority (non-curtailable) firm customers during
peak winter conditions and provides U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas the flexibility to reduce its contract commitments if firm customers choose alternate gas suppliers under U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  customer choice/gas transportation
programs. In 2008, firm supply purchase commitment agreements provided approximately 90% of the natural gas supply, with the remaining gas purchased on the spot market. These firm supply agreements feature two levels of gas supply,
specifically (1) baseload, which is a continuous supply to meet normal demand requirements, and (2) swing load, which is gas available on a daily basis to accommodate changes in demand due primarily to changing weather conditions.
     U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas also owns two underground caverns with a total storage capacity of approximately 16 million gallons of liquid
propane. In addition, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas has access to 5.5 million gallons of liquid propane storage and product loan through a commercial services agreement with a third party. This liquid propane is used in the three propane/air
peak shaving plants located in Ohio and Kentucky. Propane/air peak shaving plants vaporize the propane and mix with natural gas to supplement the natural gas supply during peak demand periods and emergencies.      U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas manages natural gas procurement-price volatility mitigation programs for Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky. These
programs pre-arrange between 10-25% of total winter heating season gas requirements for Duke Energy Ohio, between 10-35% of total winter heating season gas requirements for Duke Energy Kentucky and between 10-50% of total summer season gas
requirements for both Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky for up to three years in advance of the delivery month. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky use primarily fixed-price forward contracts and contracts with a ceiling and floor
on the price. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky, combined, had locked in pricing for approximately 24% of their winter 2008/2009 system load requirements.      U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to the gas turbine generators to serve native electric
load customers in the Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky service territories. The natural gas procurement strategy is to contract with one or several suppliers who buy spot market natural gas supplies along with firm
or interruptible interstate pipeline transportation capacity for deliveries to the site. This strategy allows for competitive pricing, flexibility of delivery, and reliable natural gas supplies to each of the natural gas plants. Many of the natural
gas plants can be served by several supply zones and multiple pipelines.      Duke Energy Indiana hedges a percentage of its winter and summer expected
native gas burn from Indiana gas turbine units using financial swaps tied to the NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas futures.        Nuclear.   The
industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, the services to convert uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the services to enrich the
uranium hexafluoride, and the services to fabricate the enriched uranium hexafluoride into usable fuel assemblies.      Duke Energy Carolinas has
contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel the Oconee, McGuire and Catawba Nuclear Stations in the Carolinas. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of long-term
supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country of origin and pricing. Duke Energy Carolinas staggers its contracting so that its portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements at Oconee, McGuire
and Catawba in the near-term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time thereafter. Due to the technical complexities of changing suppliers of  
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           
 fuel fabrication services, Duke Energy Carolinas generally sources these services to a single domestic supplier on a plant-by-plant basis using multi-year contracts.
     Duke Energy Carolinas has entered into fuel contracts that, based on its current need projections, cover 100% of the uranium concentrates, conversion
services, and enrichment services requirements of the Oconee, McGuire and Catawba Nuclear Stations through at least 2011 and cover fabrication services requirements for these plants through at least 2016. For subsequent years, a portion of the fuel
requirements at Oconee, McGuire and Catawba are covered by long-term contracts. For future requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, Duke Energy Carolinas believes it will be able to renew contracts as they expire, or enter into
similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have been and are expected to be fulfilled with uranium spot market purchases.   
  In 1999, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into a contract with Shaw AREVA MOX Services (MOX Services; formerly Duke COGEMA Stone   Webster, LLC) to
purchase mixed-oxide fuel for use in the McGuire and Catawba nuclear reactors. Under this contract, beginning in 2007, MOX Services would fabricate batches of mixed-oxide fuel from stockpiles of plutonium derived from surplus weapons at a facility
under construction at the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Savannah River site in Aiken, South Carolina. Mixed oxide fuel is similar to conventional uranium fuel. Following review and approval by the NRC, four MOX fuel lead assemblies, fabricated in
France, were irradiated for two fuel cycles (approximately three years) in Unit 1 of the Catawba Nuclear Station. In 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas and MOX Services engaged in discussions to renegotiate the terms of the contract prior to its expiration
on December 1, 2008. The parties were unable to reach agreement and the contract automatically terminated on December 1, 2008. Duke Energy Carolinas has communicated to MOX Services that it continues to support the objectives of the
surplus weapons disposition program and is interested in receiving a future proposal from MOX Services for the use of MOX fuel.         Energy
Efficiency   .  In May 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed its Save-A-Watt energy efficiency plan with the NCUC seeking approval to implement new energy efficiency programs, a new regulatory recovery model and a rate rider. The plan
recognizes energy efficiency as a reliable, valuable resource that is a  fifth fuel,  that should be part of the portfolio available to meet customers  growing need for electricity along with coal, nuclear, natural gas, or renewable
energy. The plan would compensate Duke Energy Carolinas for verified reductions in energy use and be available to all customer groups. The plan contains proposals for several different energy efficiency programs. Customers would pay for
energy efficiency programs with an energy efficiency rider that would be included in their power bill and adjusted annually. The proposed energy efficiency rider would be based on 90% of the avoided capacity and energy cost of generation not needed
as a result of the success of Duke Energy Carolinas  energy efficiency efforts. The plan is consistent with Duke Energy Carolinas  public commitment to invest 1% of its annual retail revenues from the sale of electricity in energy
efficiency programs subject to the appropriate regulatory treatment of Duke Energy Carolinas  energy efficiency investments. Piedmont Natural Gas Company and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc. raised certain concerns regarding the
incentives offered to Duke Energy Carolinas  customers under its proposed portfolio of energy efficiency programs. In June 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed settlement agreements resolving all issues with these parties. Duke Energy Carolinas
has not reached settlement with any of the other intervenors. The evidentiary hearing occurred the week of July 28, 2008 and concluded on August 18, 2008. Duke Energy Carolinas was unable to reach a settlement with any party to the
proceeding. On October 7, 2008 Duke Energy Carolinas filed its proposed order and legal brief with the NCUC. Duke Energy Carolinas is awaiting a decision from the NCUC.       On February 26, 2009, the NCUC issued an order approving the proposed energy efficiency programs as new programs eligible for incentives under North Carolina s
2009 energy legislation. The NCUC requested additional information regarding the earnings potential under its proposed Save-A-Watt recovery mechanism before ruling on this issue; however, it authorized Duke Energy Carolinas to implement its proposed
energy efficiency rider pending final resolution and subject to refund.      On February 25, 2009, the PSCSC issued a directive rejecting Duke Energy
Carolinas  Save-A-Watt energy efficiency plan, which was filed with the PSCSC on September 28, 2007.      On July 11, 2007, the PUCO approved
Duke Energy Ohio s Demand Side Management/ Energy Efficiency Program (DSM). The DSM programs were first proposed in 2006 and were endorsed by the Duke Energy Community Partnership, which is a collaborative group made up of representatives of
organizations interested in energy conservation, efficiency and assistance to low-income customers. The program costs will be recouped through a cost recovery mechanism that will be adjusted annually to reflect the previous year s activity.
Duke Energy Ohio is permitted to recover lost revenues, program costs and shared savings (once the programs reach 65% of the targeted savings level) through the cost recovery mechanism based upon impact studies to be provided to the Staff of the
PUCO. Duke Energy Ohio filed the Save-A-Watt Energy Efficiency Plan as part of its ESP filed with PUCO on July 31, 2008 (see  Commercial Power  section below). A Stipulation and Recommendation for consideration by the PUCO regarding
Duke Energy Ohio s ESP filing, including implementation of Save-A-Watt, was filed in October 2008. The ESP hearing occurred on November 10, 2008. On December 17, 2008,  
        
   14   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            
 the PUCO determined that certain non-residential customers may opt out of Duke Energy Ohio s energy efficiency initiative. Applications for rehearing of this
decision have been filed by environmental groups and a residential customer advocate group. On February 11, 2009 the PUCO issued an Entry denying the rehearing requests.       In October 2007, Duke Energy Indiana filed its petition with the IURC requesting approval of an alternative regulatory plan to increase its energy efficiency
efforts in the state. Similar to the plans in North Carolina and South Carolina, Duke Energy Indiana seeks approval of a plan that will be available to all customer groups and will compensate Duke Energy Indiana for verified reductions in
energy usage. Under the plan, customers would pay for energy efficiency programs through an energy efficiency rider that would be included in their power bill and adjusted annually through a proceeding before the IURC. The energy
efficiency rider proposal is based on the avoided cost of generation not needed as a result of the success of Duke Energy Indiana s energy efficiency programs. A number of parties have intervened in the proceeding. On May 29, 2008,
Duke Energy and Vectren Energy Delivery of Indiana, Inc. filed a stipulation and settlement agreement in the proceeding. On August 1, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana reached a settlement agreement with the OUCC resolving all issues in the proceeding.
The settlement agreement was filed with the IURC on August 15, 2008. On October 31, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana reached a settlement agreement with Nucor Corporation, Steel Dynamics, Inc. and the Kroger Company resolving all issues in the
proceeding. The settlement agreement was filed with the IURC on November 3, 2008. On January 15, 2009, Duke Energy Indiana entered into a settlement that amended the October 31, 2008 settlement, adding two additional intervenors to
the settlement   the Indiana Industrial Group and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Duke Energy Indiana has not reached a settlement with one intervenor in the proceeding, the Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, Inc. An evidentiary hearing with the IURC
is scheduled to occur in the first quarter of 2009.      On November 15, 2007, Duke Energy Kentucky filed its annual application to continue existing
energy efficiency programs, consisting of nine residential and two commercial and industrial programs, and to true-up its gas and electric tracking mechanism for recovery of lost revenues, program costs and shared savings. On February 11, 2008,
Duke Energy Kentucky filed a motion to amend its energy efficiency programs and applied to reinstitute a low income Home Energy Assistance Program. The KPSC bifurcated the proposed Home Energy Assistance Program from the other energy efficiency
programs. On May 14, 2008, the KPSC approved the energy efficiency programs. On September 25, 2008, the KPSC approved Duke Energy Kentucky s Home Energy Assistance program, making it available for customers at or below 150% of the
federal poverty level. On December 1, 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky filed an application for a Save-A-Watt Energy Efficiency Plan. The application seeks a new energy efficiency recovery mechanism similar to what was proposed in Ohio and Indiana.
       Renewable Energy.   Climate change concerns, as well as the oil price volatility, have sparked rising government support in driving
increasing renewable energy legislation at both the federal and state level. For example, the new energy legislation passed in North Carolina in 2007 establishes a renewable portfolio standard for electric utilities at 3% of output by 2012, rising
gradually to 12.5% by 2021. In 2008, the State of Ohio also passed legislation that included renewable energy and advanced energy targets. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana have issued Request for Proposals seeking bids
for power generated from renewable energy sources, including sun, wind, water, organic matter and other sources.       With the passage of Senate Bill
221 (SB 221) in Ohio in 2008, Duke Energy Ohio is required to include an increasing percentage of renewables as part of its generation portfolio. The percentage, beginning in 2009 with 0.25% non-solar and 0.004% solar, increases to 12.5% non-solar
and 0.5% solar by 2024. Of these percentages, 50% of the resources must come from within the state of Ohio. To address this legislation, Duke Energy Ohio initiated a comprehensive renewable Request for Proposals (RFP) in June 2008. Duke Energy Ohio
evaluated the bids and selected both solar and non-solar bids to begin negotiations aimed toward final contract executions. Initial objectives are focused on meeting the specific near term 2009 and 2010 requirements. Duke Energy Ohio is also working
with regulators to seek clarifications on points of the SB 221 renewable guidelines. Duke Energy Ohio will continue its renewable efforts with bidders, suppliers and the community in Ohio to meet the increasing renewable obligations.   
   With the passage of Senate Bill 3 in North Carolina in 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas was required to include an increasing percentage of renewables as part of
its generation portfolio. Senate Bill 3 requires solar compliance at 0.02% of retail sales beginning in 2010 and 3% of total portfolio to comply with solar, swine and poultry requirements beginning 2012. Total North Carolina renewable energy
resource compliance increases to 12.5% by 2021. To address this legislation, Duke Energy Carolinas initiated a comprehensive renewable RFP in April 2007 to address the 2010 through 2014 renewable portfolio standards requirements. As a result of the
2007 renewable energy RFP, Duke Energy Carolinas has executed a contract with a solar bidder and several landfill gas contracts which will be added to the hydro facilities portfolio to meet future compliance requirements. Duke Energy Carolinas is
working with regulators to seek clarifications on points of the Senate Bill 3 renewable guidelines. Duke Energy Carolinas will continue its growing renewable efforts with bidders, suppliers and the community in the Carolinas to meet the increasing
renewable obligations.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            Duke Energy Indiana issued a comprehensive renewable RFP in October 2007. Due to the uncertainty in the financial markets, Duke Energy Indiana has extended its
timeline for review of the proposals received from the October 2007 renewable RFP. Duke Energy Indiana will continue its renewable efforts with bidders, suppliers and the community in Indiana to stay involved in developing renewable energy efforts
in the state of Indiana.             Inventory       Generation of electricity is capital-intensive. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas must maintain an adequate stock of fuel, materials and supplies in order to ensure
continuous operation of generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2008, the inventory balance for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas was approximately $914 million. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  for additional information.             Nuclear Insurance and Decommissioning             Duke Energy owns
and operates the McGuire and Oconee Nuclear Stations and operates and has a partial ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The McGuire and the Catawba Nuclear Stations each have two nuclear reactors and the Oconee Nuclear Station has
three. Nuclear insurance includes: liability coverage; property, decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and business interruption and/or extra expense coverage. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station reimburse Duke
Energy for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance premiums. The Price-Anderson Act requires Duke Energy to provide for public liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the maximum total financial projection liability, which is
approximately $12.5 billion. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies Nuclear Insurance,  for more information.      In 2005, the NCUC and PSCSC approved a $48 million annual amount for contributions and expense levels for decommissioning. In each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy expensed approximately $48
million and contributed cash of approximately $48 million to the Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds (NDTF) for decommissioning costs. The entire amount of these contributions were to the funds reserved for contaminated costs as contributions to the
funds reserved for non-contaminated costs have been discontinued since the current estimates indicate existing funds to be sufficient to cover projected future costs. The balance of the external NDTF, was approximately $1,436 million as of
December 31, 2008 and $1,929 million as of December 31, 2007.      Estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs, including the cost of
decommissioning plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, total approximately $2.3 billion in 2003 dollars, based on a decommissioning study completed in 2004. This includes costs related to Duke Energy s proportionate
ownership in Catawba Nuclear Station at the time, which was 12.5%. The other joint owners of Catawba Nuclear Station are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership interests in the station. Both the NCUC and the PSCSC have
allowed Duke Energy to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail rates over the expected remaining service periods of Duke Energy s nuclear stations. Duke Energy believes that the decommissioning costs being recovered through
rates, when coupled with expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning.       As the NCUC and the PSCSC
require that Duke Energy update its cost estimate for decommissioning its nuclear plants every five years, new site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies were completed in January 2009 that showed total estimated nuclear decommissioning
costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, of approximately $3 billion in 2008 dollars. This estimate includes Duke Energy s 19.25% ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station.
Duke Energy will file these site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies with the NCUC and the PSCSC later this year. In addition to the decommissioning cost studies, a new funding study is underway to determine the appropriateness of the
annual amounts currently being contributed to the NDTF. The NCUC and the PSCSC will consider the results of the funding study, which could potentially increase the annual required contributions to the NDTF, in the latter part of 2009.      After used fuel is removed from a nuclear reactor, it is cooled in a spent-fuel pool at the nuclear station. Under provisions of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of
1982, Duke Energy contracted with the DOE for the disposal of used nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin accepting used nuclear fuel on January 31, 1998, the date specified by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and in Duke Energy s contract with
the DOE. Duke Energy will continue to safely manage its used nuclear fuel until the DOE accepts it. In 1998, Duke Energy filed a claim with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims against the DOE related to the DOE s failure to accept commercial used
nuclear fuel by the required date. Damages claimed in the lawsuit were based upon Duke Energy s costs incurred as a result of the DOE s partial material breach of its contract, including the cost of securing additional used fuel storage
capacity. On March 5, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) reached a settlement resolving Duke Energy s used nuclear fuel litigation against the DOE. The agreement provided for an initial payment to Duke
Energy of approximately $56 million for certain storage costs incurred through July 31, 2005, with additional amounts reimbursed annually for future storage costs.          
   16   

Table of Contents  

   PART I             Asbestos Related Injuries and Damages Claims       Duke Energy has experienced
numerous claims for indemnification and medical reimbursements relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy
Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.       Duke Energy has third-party insurance to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy
Carolinas  asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Reserves recorded on Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy s best
estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2027. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2027. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a
longer-term forecast, management does not believe they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2027 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if
applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed,
the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change management s estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state
tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside Duke Energy s control, management
believes it is reasonably possible that Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of its recorded reserves.       Duke Energy
Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio have also been named as defendants or co-defendants in lawsuits related to asbestos at their electric generating stations. The impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or financial
position of these cases to date has not been material. Based on estimates under varying assumptions, concerning uncertainties, such as, among others: (i) the number of contractors potentially exposed to asbestos during construction or
maintenance of Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio generating plants; (ii) the possible incidence of various illnesses among exposed workers and (iii) the potential settlement costs without federal or other legislation that addresses
asbestos tort actions, Duke Energy estimates that the range of reasonably possible exposure in existing and future suits over the foreseeable future is not material. This estimated range of exposure may change as additional settlements occur and
claims are made and more case law is established.      See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and
Contingencies-Litigation-Asbestos Related Injuries and Damages Claims,  for more information.             Competition       U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas competes in some areas with government-owned power systems, municipally
owned electric systems, rural electric cooperatives and other private utilities. By statute, the NCUC and the PSCSC assign service areas outside municipalities in North Carolina and South Carolina, respectively, to regulated electric utilities and
rural electric cooperatives. Substantially all of the territory comprising Duke Energy Carolinas  service area has been assigned in this manner. In unassigned areas, Duke Energy Carolinas  business remains subject to competition. A
decision of the North Carolina Supreme Court limits, in some instances, the right of North Carolina municipalities to serve customers outside their corporate limits. In South Carolina, competition continues between municipalities and other electric
suppliers outside the municipalities  corporate limits, subject to the regulation of the PSCSC. In Kentucky, the right of municipalities to serve customers outside corporate limits is subject to court approval. In Ohio, certified suppliers may
offer retail electric generation service to residential, commercial and industrial customers. In Indiana, the state is divided into certified electric service areas for municipal utilities, rural cooperatives and investor owned utilities. There are
limited circumstances where the certified electric service areas can be modified, with approval of the IURC. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas also competes with other utilities and marketers in the wholesale electric business. In addition, U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas continues to compete with natural gas providers.             Regulation              State       The NCUC, the PSCSC, the PUCO, the IURC and the KPSC (collectively, the State Utility Commissions) approve rates for retail electric service within their respective
states. In addition, the PUCO and the KPSC approve rates for retail gas distribution service within their respective states. The FERC approves U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  cost-based rates for electric sales to certain wholesale customers.
The State Utility Commissions, except for the PUCO, also have authority over the construction and operation of U.S. Franchised Elec- 
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           
 tric and Gas  facilities. CPCN s issued by the State Utility Commissions, as applicable, authorize U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas to construct and operate
its electric facilities, and to sell electricity to retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant State Utility Commission is required for Duke Energy s regulated operating companies to issue securities.        Duke Energy Carolinas Rate Case.   In June 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC seeking authority to increase its rates and
charges for electric service in North Carolina effective January 1, 2008. This application complied with a condition imposed by the NCUC in approving the Cinergy merger. On October 5, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an Agreement and
Stipulation of Partial Settlement (Partial Settlement) among Duke Energy Carolinas, the North Carolina Public Staff, the North Carolina Attorney General s Office, Carolina Utility Customers Association Inc., Carolina Industrial Group for Fair
Utility Rates III and Wal-Mart Stores East LP, for consideration by the NCUC. The Partial Settlement, which includes Duke Energy Carolinas and all intervening parties to the rate case, reflected agreements on all but a few issues in these matters,
including two significant issues. The two significant issues related to the treatment of ongoing merger cost savings resulting from the Cinergy merger and the proposed amortization of Duke Energy Carolinas  development costs related to
GridSouth Transco, LLC (GridSouth), a Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) planned by Duke Energy Carolinas and other utility companies as a result of previous FERC rulemakings, which was suspended in 2002 and discontinued in 2005 as a result of
regulatory uncertainty. The Partial Settlement and the remaining disputed issues were presented to the NCUC for a ruling.      The Partial Settlement
reflected an agreed to reduction in net revenues and pre-tax cash flows of approximately $210 million and corresponding rate reductions of 12.7% to the industrial class, 5.05% 7.34% to the general class and 3.85% to the residential class of
customers with an effective date of January 1, 2008. Under the Partial Settlement, effective January 1, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas discontinued the amortization of the environmental compliance costs pursuant to North Carolina clean air
legislation discussed above and began capitalizing all environmental compliance costs above the cumulative amortization charge of $1.05 billion as of December 31, 2007. Over the past five years, the average annual clean air amortization was
$210 million. The Partial Settlement was designed to enable Duke Energy Carolinas to earn a rate of return of 8.57% on a North Carolina retail jurisdictional rate base and an 11% return on the common equity component of the approved capital
structure, which consists of 47% debt and 53% common equity. As part of the settlement, Duke Energy Carolinas agreed to alter the then existing bulk power marketing (BPM) profit sharing arrangement that included a provision to share 50% of the North
Carolina retail allocation of the profits from certain wholesale sales of bulk power from Duke Energy Carolinas  generating units at market based rates. The Partial Settlement provided that Duke Energy Carolinas share 90% of the North Carolina
retail allocation of the profits from BPM transactions beginning January 1, 2008.      The NCUC issued its Order Approving Stipulation and Deciding
Non-Settled Issues (Order) on December 20, 2007. The NCUC approved the Partial Settlement in its entirety. The merger savings rider and GridSouth cost matters are discussed in detail below. For the remaining non-settled issues, the NCUC decided
in Duke Energy Carolinas  favor. With respect to the merger savings rider and GridSouth cost matters, the Order required that Duke Energy Carolinas  test period operating costs reflect an annualized level of the merger cost savings
actually experienced in the test period in keeping with traditional principles of ratemaking. The NCUC explained that because rates should be designed to recover a reasonable and prudent level of ongoing expenses, Duke Energy Carolinas  annual
cost of service and revenue requirement should reflect, as closely as possible, Duke Energy Carolinas  actual costs. However, the NCUC recognized that its treatment of merger savings would not produce a fair result. Therefore, the NCUC
preliminarily concluded that it would reconsider certain language in its 2006 merger order in order to allow it to authorize a 12-month increment rider, beginning January 2008, of approximately $80 million designed to provide a more equitable
sharing of the actual merger savings achieved on an ongoing basis. Additionally, the NCUC concluded that approximately $30 million of costs incurred through June 2002 in connection with GridSouth and deferred by Duke Energy Carolinas, were
reasonable and prudent and approved a ten-year amortization, retroactive to June 2002. As a result of the retroactive impact of the Order, Duke Energy Carolinas recorded an approximate $17 million charge to write-off a portion of the GridSouth costs
in the fourth quarter of 2007. The NCUC did not allow Duke Energy Carolinas a return on the GridSouth investments. As a result of its decision on the non-settled issues, the NCUC ordered an additional reduction in annual revenues of approximately
$54 million, offset by its preliminary authorization of a 12-month, $80 million increment rider, as discussed above. The Order ultimately resulted in an overall average rate decrease of 5% in 2008, increasing to 7% upon expiration of this one-time
rate rider. On February 18, 2008, the NCUC issued an order confirming their preliminary conclusion regarding the merger savings rider and the $80 million increment rider. Duke Energy Carolinas implemented the rate rider effective
January 1, 2008.        Duke Energy Ohio Electric Rate Filing.   Prior to the passage of SB 221 in April 2008, as discussed below, electric
generation supply service had been deregulated in Ohio. Accordingly, Duke Energy Ohio s electric generation had been deregulated and Duke Energy Ohio was in a competitive retail electric service market in the state of Ohio. Under applicable
legislation governing the deregulation of generation, Duke Energy Ohio implemented a RSP, including a market based standard service offer approved by the PUCO. The RSP, among other things, allowed Duke Energy Ohio to recover increased costs
associated with environmental expenditures on its deregulated generating fleet, capacity reserves, and provided for a fuel and emission allowance cost recovery mechanism through 2008.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            SB 221 was passed on April 23, 2008 and signed by the Governor of Ohio on May 1, 2008. The new law codifies the PUCO s authority to approve an
electric utility s standard service offer through an ESP, which would allow for pricing structures similar to the current RSP. Electric utilities are required to file an ESP and may also file an application for a market rate option (MRO) at the
same time. The MRO is a price determined through a competitive bidding process. If a MRO price is approved, the utility would blend in the RSP or ESP price with the MRO price over a six- to ten-year period, subject to the PUCO s discretion. SB
221 provides for the PUCO to approve non-by-passable charges for new generation, including construction work-in-progress from the outset of construction, as part of an ESP. The new law grants the PUCO discretion to approve single issue rate
adjustments to distribution and transmission rates and establishes new alternative energy resources (including renewable energy) portfolio standards, such that the utility s portfolio must consist of at least 25% of these resources by 2025. SB
221 also provides a separate requirement for energy efficiency, which mandates a reduction of 22% through annual energy savings by 2025. The utility s earnings under the ESP is subject to an annual earnings test and the PUCO must order a refund
if it finds that the utility s earnings significantly exceed the earnings of benchmark companies with similar business and financial risks. The earnings test acts as a cap to the ESP price. SB 221 also limits the ability of a utility to
transfer its designated generating asset to an Exempt Wholesale Generator (EWG) absent PUCO approval. Duke Energy Ohio filed an ESP on July 31, 2008, and a settlement with intervening parties was approved by the PUCO on December 17, 2008.
     For more information on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters U.S. Franchised Electric and
Gas.              Federal       Regulations of FERC and the State Utility Commissions govern access to regulated electric and gas customer and other data by non-regulated entities, and services
provided between regulated and non-regulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of non-regulated affiliates with U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas.      The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was signed into law in August 2005. The legislation directs specified agencies to conduct a significant number of studies on various aspects of the energy industry and to implement other provisions
through rule makings. Among the key provisions, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA) of 1935, directed FERC to establish a self-regulating electric reliability organization governed by an independent
board with FERC oversight, extended the Price Anderson Act for 20 years (until 2025), provided loan guarantees, standby support and production tax credits for new nuclear reactors, gave FERC enhanced merger approval authority, provided FERC new
backstop authority for the siting of certain electric transmission projects, streamlined the processes for approval and permitting of interstate pipelines, and reformed hydropower relicensing. In 2005 and 2006, FERC initiated several rule makings as
directed by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. These rulemakings have now been completed, subject to certain appeals and further proceeding. Duke Energy does not believe that these rulemakings or the appeals will have a material adverse effect on its
consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.      The Energy Policy Act of 1992 and subsequent rulemakings and events initiated
the opening of wholesale energy markets to competition. Open access transmission for wholesale transmission provides energy suppliers and load serving entities, including U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and wholesale customers located in the U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas service area, with opportunities to purchase, sell and deliver capacity and energy at market-based prices, which can lower overall costs to retail customers.      Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana are transmission owners in a regional transmission organization operated by the Midwest Independent
Transmission System Operator, Inc. (Midwest ISO), a non-profit organization which maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members. In 2005, the Midwest ISO began administering an energy market within its footprint.
     On December 17, 2001 the IURC approved the transfer of functional control of the operation of the Duke Energy Indiana transmission system to the
Midwest ISO, an RTO established in 1998. On June 1, 2005, the IURC authorized Duke Energy Indiana to transfer control area operations tasks and responsibilities and transfer dispatch and Day 2 energy markets tasks and responsibilities to the
Midwest ISO. On August 13, 2008, the IURC authorized Duke Energy Indiana to transfer additional balancing authority functions to the Midwest ISO to permit Duke Energy Indiana to participate in the Midwest ISO s ancillary services market.
     The Midwest ISO is the provider of transmission service requested on the transmission facilities under its tariff. It is responsible for the reliable
operation of those transmission facilities and the regional planning of new transmission facilities. The Midwest ISO administers energy markets utilizing Locational Marginal Pricing (i.e., the energy price for the next MW may vary throughout the
Midwest ISO market based on transmission congestion and energy losses) as the methodology for relieving congestion on the transmission facilities under its functional control.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            On December 19, 2005, the FERC approved a plan filed by Duke Energy Carolinas to establish an  Independent Entity  (IE) to serve as a coordinator of
certain transmission functions and an  Independent Monitor  (IM) to monitor the transparency and fairness of the operation of Duke Energy Carolinas  transmission system. Duke Energy Carolinas remains the owner and operator of the
transmission system, with responsibility for the provision of transmission service under Duke Energy Carolinas  Open Access Transmission Tariff. Duke Energy Carolinas retained the Midwest ISO to act as the IE and Potomac Economics, Ltd. to act
as the IM. The IE and IM began operations on November 1, 2006. Duke Energy Carolinas is not currently seeking adjustments to its transmission rates to reflect the incremental cost of the proposal, which is not projected to have a material
adverse effect on Duke Energy s future consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.             Other       U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is subject to the
jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of its nuclear generating facilities. In 2000, the NRC renewed the operating license for Duke Energy s three Oconee nuclear units through 2033 for Units 1 and 2 and through 2034
for Unit 3. In 2003, the NRC renewed the operating licenses for all units at Duke Energy s McGuire and Catawba stations. The two McGuire units are licensed through 2041 and 2043, respectively, while the two Catawba units are licensed through
2043. All but one of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  hydroelectric generating facilities are licensed by the FERC under Part I of the Federal Power Act, with license terms expiring from 2005 to 2036. The FERC has authority to issue new
hydroelectric generating licenses. Hydroelectric facilities whose licenses expired in 2005 are operating under annual extensions of the current license until FERC issues a new license. Other hydroelectric facilities whose licenses expire between
2009 and 2016 are in various stages of relicensing. Duke Energy expects to receive new licenses for all hydroelectric facilities with the exception of the Dillsboro Project, for which Duke Energy has filed an application to surrender the license.
Duke Energy expects to remove this project s dam and powerhouse, as part of the multi-stakeholder licensing agreement.      U.S. Franchised Electric
and Gas is subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local environmental agencies. (For a discussion of environmental regulation, see  Environmental Matters  in this section.)   
           COMMERCIAL POWER        Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances
related to these plants as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power s generation asset fleet consists of Duke Energy Ohio s non-regulated generation in Ohio, acquired from Cinergy in April 2006 and the five Midwestern
gas-fired non-regulated generation assets that were a portion of former DENA. Commercial Power s assets, excluding wind energy generation assets, are comprised of approximately 7,550 net MW of power generation primarily located in the
Midwestern United States. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with baseload and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural gas-fired units. Most of the generation asset output in Ohio has been contracted
through the RSP, which expired on December 31, 2008. Effective January 1, 2009, Commercial Power began operating under an ESP, which expires on December 31, 2011, and is described below.          
   20   

Table of Contents  

   PART I             The following map shows the Commercial Power service territories and generation facilities.           

21   

Table of Contents  

   PART I              Through DEGS, Commercial Power is an on-site energy solutions and utility services provider. Primarily through joint ventures, DEGS engages in utility systems
construction, operation and maintenance of utility facilities, as well as cogeneration. Cogeneration is the simultaneous production of two or more forms of usable energy from a single source. In support of a strategy to increase its renewable energy
portfolio, DEGS acquired the wind power development assets of Energy Investor Funds from Tierra Energy in May 2007 and, in September 2008, acquired Catamount Energy Corporation (Catamount) from Diamond Castle Partners. DEGS currently has
approximately 370 net MW of wind energy in operation and over 5,000 MW of wind energy projects in the development pipeline.       The following map
show the location of DEGS wind energy generation assets.     

       In October 2006, Duke Energy completed the sale of Commercial Power s energy marketing and trading activities,
which were acquired in the Cinergy merger. In December 2006, Duke Energy completed the sale of Caledonia Power 1, LLC, which is the project company that operated and managed the Caledonia peaking generation facility in Mississippi. Additionally,
Duke Energy completed the sale of Commercial Power s Brownsville, Tennessee peaking generation facility in April 2008.             Competition       Commercial Power primarily competes for wholesale contracts
for the purchase and sale of electricity, coal, natural gas and emission allowances. The market price of commodities and services, along with the quality and reliability of services provided, drive competition in the energy marketing business.
Commercial Power s main competitors include other non-regulated generators in the Midwestern U.S. wholesale power, coal and natural gas marketers, renewable energy companies and financial institutions and hedge funds engaged in energy commodity
marketing and trading.        Rates and Regulation.   Duke Energy Ohio has been charging the RSP to non-residential customers since
January 1, 2005 and to residential customers since January 1, 2006. The RSP charge has been updated in conjunction with the ESP, which is effective January 1, 2009, and consists of the following discrete charges:   

Annually Adjusted Component (AAC) Rider- This rider is intended to provide cost recovery primarily for environmental compliance expenditures. This component is avoidable (or
by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.      

Fuel and Purchased Power (FPP) Rider   This rider is intended to provide cost recovery for fuel, purchased power and emission allowance expenses (including carbon or
energy taxes) incurred to generate or procure electricity for retail ratepayers that are  
          
   22   

Table of Contents  

   PART I         

provided service by Duke Energy Ohio. This component is avoidable (or by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.

Capacity Dedication Rider   This rider is intended to provide cost recovery for maintaining the generation fleet to serve the retail rate payers. This component is not
avoidable (or non-by-passable) by customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.      

System Reliability Tracker   This tracker is intended to provide actual cost recovery for capacity purchases made to maintain adequate reserve margin. This component is
not avoidable (or non-by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.      

Base Generation Charge   This component reflects a market price for retail generation service and is not a cost-based rate. This component is avoidable (or by-passable)
by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.      

Transmission Cost Recovery Rider   The generation portion of this rider is designed to permit Duke Energy Ohio to recover certain Midwest ISO charges and all FERC
approved transmission costs allocable to retail ratepayers that are provided service by Duke Energy Ohio .  This component is avoidable (or by-passable) by all customers that switch to an alternative electric service provider.
        Commercial Power s generation operations in the Midwest include generation assets located in Ohio that are dedicated to serve
Ohio native load customers. These assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales outside the native load customer base, and such revenue is termed non-native.      Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to any of its operations due to the comprehensive electric
deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. As described further below, effective December 17, 2008, the PUCO approved Commercial Power s ESP, which resulted in the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of
Commercial Power s operations as of that date.       From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, Commercial Power had been operating
under a RSP, which is a market-based standard service offer. Although the RSP contained certain trackers that enhanced the potential for cost recovery, there was no assurance of stranded cost recovery upon the expiration of the RSP on
December 31, 2008 since it was initially anticipated that, upon the expiration of the RSP, there would be a move to full competitive markets. Accordingly, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to any of its
generation operations prior to December 17, 2008. As discussed further in Item 1   Business -U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas Regulation, in April 2008, SB 221 was passed in Ohio and signed by the Governor of Ohio on May 1,
2008. The new law codified the PUCO s authority to approve an electric utility s standard service offer either through an ESP or a MRO. The MRO is a price determined through a competitive bidding process. On July 31, 2008, Duke Energy
Ohio filed an ESP, and with certain amendments, the ESP was approved by the PUCO on December 17, 2008. The ESP became effective on January 1, 2009.       In connection with the approval of the ESP, Duke Energy Ohio reassessed the applicability of SFAS No. 71 to Commercial Power s generation operations as SB 221 substantially increased the PUCO s oversight
authority over generation in the state of Ohio, including giving the PUCO complete approval of generation rates and the establishment of an earnings test to determine if a utility has earned significantly excessive earnings. Duke Energy Ohio
determined that certain costs and related rates (riders) of Commercial Power s operations related to generation serving native load meet the criteria established by SFAS No. 71 for regulatory accounting treatment as SB 221 and Duke Energy
Ohio s approved ESP solidified the automatic recovery of certain costs of its generation serving native load and increased the likelihood that these operations will remain under a cost recovery model for certain costs for the foreseeable
future.       Under the ESP, Commercial Power will bill for its native load generation via numerous riders. SB 221 and the ESP resulted in the approval
of the automatic recovery of certain of these riders, which includes, but is not limited to, a FPP rider and certain portions of a cost of an ACC rider. Accordingly, Commercial Power began applying SFAS No. 71 to the corresponding RSP riders
granting automatic recovery under the ESP on December 17, 2008. The remaining portions of Commercial Power s Ohio native load generation operations, revenues from which are reflected in rate riders for which the ESP does not specifically
allow automatic cost recovery, as well as all generation operations associated with non-native customers, including Commercial Power s Midwest gas-fired generation assets, continue to not apply regulatory accounting as those operations do not
meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers continue to have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. As customers switch,
there is a risk that some or all of the regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. Duke Energy Ohio will continue to monitor the amount of native load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when assessing
the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its native load generation operations.          
   23   

Table of Contents  

          Despite certain portions of the
Ohio native load operations not being subject to the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 71, all of Commercial Power s Ohio native load operations  rates are subject to approval by the PUCO, and thus these operations are referred to as
Commercial Power s regulated operations.       Commercial Power is subject to regulation at the state level, primarily from PUCO and at the
federal level, primarily from FERC. The PUCO approves prices for all retail electric generation sales by Duke Energy Ohio for its native retail service territory. See  Regulation  section within U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas for
additional information regarding deregulation in Ohio.      Regulations of FERC and the PUCO govern access to regulated electric customer and other data
by non-regulated entities, and services provided between regulated and non-regulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of Commercial Power.      Other ongoing regulatory initiatives at both state and federal levels addressing market design, such as the development of capacity markets and real-time electricity markets, impact financial results from Commercial
Power s marketing and generation activities.      Commercial Power is subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental
agencies. (For a discussion of environmental regulation, see  Environmental Matters  in this section.)               INTERNATIONAL ENERGY       International Energy
operates and manages power generation facilities and engages in sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas outside the U.S. It conducts operations primarily through DEI and its activities target power generation in Latin America.
Additionally, International Energy owns equity investments in: National Methanol Company (NMC), located in Saudi Arabia, which is a regional producer of methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) and Attiki Gas Supply S.A. (Attiki), located in
Athens, Greece, which is a natural gas distributor and was acquired in connection with the Cinergy merger.      International Energy s customers
include retail distributors, electric utilities, independent power producers, marketers and industrial/commercial companies. International Energy s current strategy is focused on optimizing the value of its current Latin American portfolio and
expanding the portfolio through investment in generation opportunities in Latin America.      International Energy owns, operates or has substantial
interests in approximately 4,000 net MW of generation facilities.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            The following map shows the locations of International Energy s facilities, including its interest in non-electric generation facilities in Saudi Arabia and
Greece.           

             Competition and Regulation       International Energy s sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas competes directly with other generators and marketers serving its market areas.
Competitors are country and region-specific but include government-owned electric generating companies, local distribution companies with self-generation capability and other privately-owned electric generating companies. The principal elements of
competition are price and availability, terms of service, flexibility and reliability of service.      A high percentage of International Energy s
portfolio consists of baseload hydroelectric generation facilities which compete with other forms of electric generation available to International Energy s customers and end-users, including natural gas and fuel oils. Economic activity,
conservation, legislation, governmental regulations, weather and other factors affect the supply and demand for electricity in the regions served by International Energy.      International Energy s operations are subject to both country-specific and international laws and regulations. (See  Environmental Matters  in this section.)       See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a description of certain of the risks associated with the operations of International Energy.                OTHER        The remainder of Duke Energy s operations is presented as Other. While it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain unallocated
corporate costs, Duke Energy s approximate 50% ownership interest in Crescent, DukeNet and related telecom businesses and Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison), Duke Energy s wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. Additionally,
Other includes the remaining portion of Duke Energy s business formerly known as DENA that was not exited or transferred to Commercial Power, primarily DETM, which management is currently in the process of winding down. Unallocated corporate
costs include certain costs not allocable to Duke Energy s reportable business segments, primarily governance costs, costs to achieve mergers and divestitures (such as the Cinergy merger and spin-off of Spectra Energy) and costs associated with
certain corporate severance programs.  
        
   25   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           
 Crescent develops and manages high-quality commercial, residential and multi-family real estate projects, and manages land holdings, primarily in the Southeastern and
Southwestern U.S. DukeNet develops, owns and operates a fiber optic communications network, primarily in the Carolinas, serving wireless, local and long-distance communications companies, internet service providers and other businesses and
organizations.      On September 7, 2006, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy closed an agreement to create the Crescent JV with
Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V U.S., L.P. (MSREF) and other affiliated funds controlled by Morgan Stanley (collectively the MS Members). Under the agreement, the Duke Energy subsidiary contributed all of the membership interests in Crescent to a
newly-formed joint venture, which was ascribed an enterprise value of approximately $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2005. In conjunction with the formation of the Crescent JV, the joint venture, Crescent and Crescent s subsidiaries entered
into a credit agreement with third party lenders under which Crescent borrowed approximately $1.21 billion, net of transaction costs, of which approximately $1.19 billion was immediately distributed to Duke Energy. Immediately following the debt
transaction, the MS Members collectively acquired a 49% membership interest in the Crescent JV from Duke Energy for a purchase price of approximately $415 million. A 2% interest in the Crescent JV was also issued by the joint venture to the
President and Chief Executive Officer of Crescent, which is subject to forfeiture if the executive voluntarily leaves the employment of the Crescent JV within a three year period. Additionally, this 2% interest can be put back to the Crescent JV
after three years, or possibly earlier upon the occurrence of certain events, at an amount equal to 2% of the fair value of the Crescent JV s equity as of the put date. Therefore, the Crescent JV will accrue the obligation related to the put as
a liability over the three year forfeiture period. Accordingly, Duke Energy has an effective 50% ownership in the equity of Crescent JV for financial reporting purposes. Duke Energy s investment in the Crescent JV has been accounted for as an
equity method investment for periods after September 7, 2006. During 2008, Crescent recorded impairment charges on certain of its property holdings, of which Duke Energy recorded its proportionate share of $238 million. As a result of Duke
Energy recording its proportionate share of Crescent s impairment losses, the carrying value of Duke Energy s investment in Crescent has been reduced to zero at December 31, 2008. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, in accordance
with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18,   The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock   (APB 18) ,  Duke Energy suspended applying the equity method of accounting to its investment in
Crescent since its investment has been reduced to zero. Accordingly, Duke Energy will not record additional losses related to its investment in Crescent. However, should Crescent begin reporting net income in future periods, Duke Energy may resume
applying the equity method of accounting after its proportionate share of that net income equals the share of net losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended. Duke Energy continues to exercise significant influence over
the operations and financial policies of Crescent.      Bison s principal activities as a captive insurance entity include the insurance and
reinsurance of various business risks and losses, such as workers compensation, property, business interruption and general liability of subsidiaries and affiliates of Duke Energy. On a limited basis, Bison also participates in reinsurance
activities with certain third parties.             Competition and Regulation       The entities within Other are subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. (For a discussion of environmental regulation, see
 Environmental Matters  in this section.)               ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS       Duke Energy is subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations
with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting Duke Energy include, but are not limited to:   

The Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air
quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources are responsible for obtaining permits and for annual compliance and reporting.      

The Clean Water Act which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into the environment.      

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which can require any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past may have owned or
operated a disposal site, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site, to share in remediation costs.      

The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be managed
pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime.            
   26   

Table of Contents  

   PART I         

The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental impacts in their decisions, including siting approvals.

The North Carolina clean air legislation that froze electric utility rates from June 20, 2002 to December 31, 2007 (rate
freeze period), subject to certain conditions, in order for North Carolina electric utilities, including Duke Energy, to significantly reduce emissions of SO 2  and NO x  from coal-fired power plants in the state. The legislation
allows electric utilities, including Duke Energy, to accelerate the recovery of compliance costs by amortizing them over seven years (2003-2009). However, Duke Energy Carolinas ended its amortization in 2007 as part of its rate case settlement with
the NCUC.         (For more information on environmental matters involving Duke Energy, including possible liability and capital costs, see
Notes 4 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters,  and  Commitments and Contingencies Environmental,  respectively.)      Except to the extent discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters,  and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies,  compliance with
international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of our various business segments and is not
expected to have a material adverse effect on the competitive position, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Duke Energy.               GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS       For a discussion of Duke
Energy s foreign operations and certain of the risks associated with them, see  Risk Factors,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk Foreign Currency Risk,  and Notes 2 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Business Segments  and  Risk Management and Hedging Activities, Credit Risk, and Financial Instruments, 
respectively.               EMPLOYEES       On December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had approximately 18,250 employees. A total of approximately 4,260 operating and maintenance employees were represented by
unions.               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF DUKE ENERGY    
   STEPHEN G. DE MAY, 46, Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Risk officer. Mr. De May assumed his current position in November 2007. Prior to that,
he served as Assistant Treasurer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. De May served as Vice President, Energy and Environmental Policy of Duke Energy since February 2004.
     LYNN J. GOOD, 49, Group Executive and President, Commercial Businesses. Ms. Good assumed her current position in November 2007. Prior to that,
she served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer since December 2006; prior to that she served as Treasurer and Vice President, Financial Planning since October 2006; and prior to that she served as Vice President and Treasurer since April 2006,
upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Ms. Good served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cinergy from August 2005 and Vice President, Finance and Controller of Cinergy
from November 2003 to August 2005.      DAVID L. HAUSER, 57, Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Hauser assumed his current position in
April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Hauser served as Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Duke Energy since March 2004 and as Acting Chief Financial Officer of
Duke Energy from December 2003 to March 2004.       DHIAA M. JAMIL, 52, Group Executive and Chief Nuclear Officer. Mr. Jamil assumed his current
position in February 2008. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President, Nuclear Support, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC since March 2007; and prior to that he served as Vice President, Catawba Nuclear Station, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC since April
2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Jamil served as Vice President Catawba Nuclear Station, Duke Power from March 2004 to April 2006, and prior to that he served as Nuclear Station
Vice President, Duke Power of Duke Energy from September 2003 to March 2004. Prior to that he served as Vice President, McGuire Nuclear Station Duke Power from September 2002 to September 2003.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            MARC E. MANLY, 56, Group Executive, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Manly assumed the role of Corporate Secretary in December 2008 and assumed
position of Chief Legal Officer in April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Manly served as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Cinergy since November 2002.
     JAMES E. ROGERS, 61, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Rogers assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer and President in
April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy and assumed the role of Chairman on January 2, 2007. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Rogers served as Chairman of the Board of Cinergy since 2000 and as Chief
Executive Officer of Cinergy since 1995.       CHRISTOPHER C. ROLFE, 57, Group Executive and Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Rolfe assumed
his current position in November 2006. Prior to that, he served as Group Executive and Chief Human Resources Officer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Rolfe served as
Vice President, Human Resources of Duke Energy since January 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Rolfe served as Senior Vice President, Strategy, Planning   Human Resources of Duke Energy from March 2003 to January 2005.       B. KEITH TRENT, 49, Group Executive and Chief Strategy, Policy and Regulatory Officer. Mr. Trent assumed his current position in May 2007. Prior to that he
served as Group Executive and Chief Strategy and Policy Officer since October 2006 and prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Development Officer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke
Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Trent served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Duke Energy since March 2005. Prior to that he served as General Counsel, Litigation of Duke Energy from May 2002 to March 2005.      JAMES L. TURNER, 49, Group Executive; President and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. Mr. Turner assumed his current position in May
2007. Prior to that he served as Group Executive and President, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas since October 2006, and prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas since April 2006, upon
the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Turner served as President of Cinergy since 2005, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cinergy from 2004 to 2005 and Executive Vice
President and Chief Executive Officer, Regulated Business Unit of Cinergy from 2001 to 2004.       STEVEN K. YOUNG, 50, Senior Vice President and
Controller. Mr. Young assumed his current position in December 2006. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Controller since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy,
Mr. Young served as Vice President and Controller of Duke Energy since June 2005. Prior to that Mr. Young served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Duke Energy Carolinas from March 2003 to June 2005.   
  Executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected.      There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person involved in officer selection.               Item 1A. Risk Factors.               Duke Energy s franchised electric revenues, earnings and results are
dependent on state legislation and regulation that affect electric generation, transmission, distribution and related activities, which may limit Duke Energy s ability to recover costs.        Duke Energy s franchised electric businesses are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to the statutes and regulatory commission rules
and procedures of North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. If Duke Energy s franchised electric earnings exceed the returns established by the state regulatory commissions, Duke Energy s retail electric rates may be
subject to review and possible reduction by the commissions, which may decrease Duke Energy s future earnings. Additionally, if regulatory bodies do not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, Duke Energy s
future earnings could be negatively impacted.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   PART I              Duke Energy may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to Duke Energy s ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities.
       Duke Energy s ownership interest in and operation of three nuclear stations subject Duke Energy to various risks including, among other
things: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance
commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.
     Duke Energy s ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities requires Duke Energy to meet licensing and safety-related requirements
imposed by the NRC. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised security and safety requirements
promulgated by the NRC, which could be prompted by, among other things, events within or outside of Duke Energy s control, such as a serious nuclear incident at a facility owned by a third-party, could necessitate substantial capital and other
expenditures at Duke Energy s nuclear plants, as well as assessments against Duke Energy to cover third-party losses. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy s
results of operations and financial condition.      Duke Energy s ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities also requires Duke Energy
to maintain funded trusts that are intended to pay for the decommissioning costs of Duke Energy s nuclear power plants. Poor investment performance of these decommissioning trusts  holdings and other factors impacting decommissioning costs
could unfavorably impact Duke Energy s liquidity and results of operations as Duke Energy could be required to significantly increase its cash contributions to the decommissioning trusts.              Duke Energy s plans for future expansion and modernization of its generation
fleet subject it to risk of failure to adequately execute and manage its significant construction plans, as well as the risk of recovering such costs in an untimely manner, which could materially impact Duke Energy s results of operations, cash
flows or financial position.        During the five-year period from 2009 to 2013, Duke Energy anticipates cumulative capital expenditures of
approximately $25 billion. The completion of Duke Energy s anticipated capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities is subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to
financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards. Moreover, Duke Energy s ability to recover these costs in a timely manner
could materially impact Duke Energy s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.              Duke Energy s sales may decrease if Duke Energy is unable to gain adequate, reliable and affordable access to transmission assets.        Duke Energy depends on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity Duke Energy
sells to the wholesale market. FERC s power transmission regulations require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. If transmission is disrupted, or if transmission capacity is
inadequate, Duke Energy s ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered.      The different regional power markets have changing regulatory
structures, which could affect Duke Energy s growth and performance in these regions. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed in the past, and may impose in the
future, price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely impact the profitability of Duke Energy s wholesale power marketing and trading
business.              Duke Energy may be unable to secure long term power
sales agreements or transmission agreements, which could expose Duke Energy s sales to increased volatility.        In the future, Duke Energy
may not be able to secure long-term power sales agreements for Duke Energy s unregulated power generation facilities. If Duke Energy is unable to secure these types of agreements, Duke Energy s sales volumes would be exposed to increased
volatility. Without the benefit of long-term customer power purchase agreements, Duke Energy cannot assure that it will be able to sell the power generated by Duke Energy s facilities or that Duke Energy s facilities will be able to
operate profitably. The inability to secure these agreements could materially adversely affect Duke Energy s financial and operational results.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

   PART I              Competition in the unregulated markets in which Duke Energy operates may adversely affect the growth and profitability of Duke Energy s business.
       Duke Energy may not be able to respond in a timely or effective manner to the many changes designed to increase competition in the
electricity industry. To the extent competitive pressures increase, the economics of Duke Energy s business may come under long-term pressure.      In addition, regulatory changes have been proposed to increase access to electricity transmission grids by utility and non-utility purchasers and sellers of electricity. These changes could continue the disaggregation of many
vertically-integrated utilities into separate generation, transmission, distribution and retail businesses. As a result, a significant number of additional competitors could become active in the wholesale power generation segment of Duke
Energy s industry.      Duke Energy may also face competition from new competitors that have greater financial resources than Duke Energy does,
seeking attractive opportunities to acquire or develop energy assets or energy trading operations both in the United States and abroad. These new competitors may include sophisticated financial institutions, some of which are already entering the
energy trading and marketing sector, and international energy players, which may enter regulated or unregulated energy businesses. This competition may adversely affect Duke Energy s ability to make investments or acquisitions.              Duke Energy must meet credit quality standards and there is no assurance that it
and its rated subsidiaries will maintain investment grade credit ratings. If Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries are unable to maintain an investment grade credit rating, Duke Energy would be required under credit agreements to provide collateral
in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect Duke Energy s liquidity.        Each of Duke Energy s and
its rated subsidiaries senior unsecured long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by various rating agencies. Duke Energy cannot be sure that the senior unsecured long-term debt of Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries will be rated
investment grade in the future.      If the rating agencies were to rate Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries below investment grade, the entity s
borrowing costs would increase, perhaps significantly. In addition, Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources would
likely decrease. Further, if its short-term debt rating were to fall, the entity s access to the commercial paper market could be significantly limited. Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of Duke Energy s
subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase Duke Energy s need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus
reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group.      A downgrade below investment grade could also trigger termination
clauses in some interest rate and foreign exchange derivative agreements, which would require cash payments. All of these events would likely reduce Duke Energy s liquidity and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on Duke
Energy s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.              Duke Energy relies on access to short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets to finance Duke Energy s capital requirements and support Duke Energy s liquidity needs, and Duke Energy s access to those markets
can be adversely affected by a number of conditions, many of which are beyond Duke Energy s control.        Duke Energy s business is
financed to a large degree through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from Duke Energy s assets. Accordingly, Duke Energy relies on access to both short-term
money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from Duke Energy s operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt instruments with disparate
maturities. If Duke Energy is not able to access capital at competitive rates, Duke Energy s ability to finance Duke Energy s operations and implement Duke Energy s strategy will be adversely affected.      Market disruptions may increase Duke Energy s cost of borrowing or adversely affect Duke Energy s ability to access one or more financial markets. Such
disruptions could include: economic downturns; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Duke Energy s facilities or
unrelated energy companies; or the overall health of the energy industry. Restrictions on Duke Energy s ability to access financial markets may also affect Duke Energy s ability to execute Duke Energy s business plan as scheduled. An
inability to access capital may limit Duke Energy s ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that Duke Energy may otherwise rely on for future growth.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            Duke Energy maintains revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for commercial paper programs and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities
typically include financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude Duke Energy from
issuing commercial paper or Duke Energy and its affiliates from issuing letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility. Additionally, failure to comply with these financial covenants could result in Duke Energy being required to
immediately pay down any outstanding amounts under other revolving credit agreements.              Current Levels of Market Volatility are Unprecedented        The capital and credit markets have been experiencing
extreme volatility and disruption. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain companies. A portion
of Duke Energy s borrowings have been issued in the commercial paper markets and, although Duke Energy has continued to issue commercial paper, there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of short-term
financing for Duke Energy. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, Duke Energy may be forced to repay commercial paper as it becomes due or to meet its other liquidity needs by further drawing upon contractually
committed lending agreements primarily provided by global banks, although there is no assurance that the commitments made by lenders under Duke Energy s master credit facility will be available if needed due to the recent turmoil throughout the
financial services industry. This could require Duke Energy to seek other funding sources. However, under such extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance other funding sources would be available or sufficient.              Duke Energy s investments and projects located outside of the United States
expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks may delay or reduce Duke Energy s realization of value from Duke Energy s
international projects.        Duke Energy currently owns and may acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside
the United States. The economic, regulatory, market and political conditions in some of the countries where Duke Energy has interests or in which Duke Energy may explore development, acquisition or investment opportunities could present risks
related to, among others, Duke Energy s ability to obtain financing on suitable terms, Duke Energy s customers  ability to honor their obligations with respect to projects and investments, delays in construction, limitations on Duke
Energy s ability to enforce legal rights, and interruption of business, as well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law, regulations, market rules
or tax policy.              Duke Energy s investments and projects located
outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. These risks, and Duke Energy s activities to mitigate such risks, may adversely affect Duke Energy s cash flows and results of operations.
       Duke Energy s operations and investments outside the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to fluctuations in currency
rates. As each local currency s value changes relative to the U.S. dollar Duke Energy s principal reporting currency the value in U.S. dollars of Duke Energy s assets and liabilities in such locality and the cash flows
generated in such locality, expressed in U.S. dollars, also change.      Duke Energy selectively mitigates some risks associated with foreign currency
fluctuations by, among other things, indexing contracts to the U.S. dollar and/or local inflation rates, hedging through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency and hedging through foreign currency derivatives. These efforts, however, may
not be effective and, in some cases, may expose Duke Energy to other risks that could negatively affect Duke Energy s cash flows and results of operations.      Duke Energy s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real. A 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rate in all of Duke Energy s exposure currencies would result in an estimated net after-tax
loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $10 million in 2009. The consolidated balance sheets would be negatively impacted by such devaluation by approximately $120 million through cumulative currency translation
adjustments.              Duke Energy is exposed to credit risk of the
customers and counterparties with whom Duke Energy does business.        Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of,
customers and counterparties with whom Duke Energy does business could impair the ability of these customers and counterparties to pay for Duke Energy s services or fulfill their contractual obligations, including loss recovery payments under
insurance contracts, or cause them to delay such payments or obligations. Duke Energy  
       
   31   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           
 depends on these customers and counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect Duke Energy s cash
flows, financial position or results of operations.              Poor
investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact Duke Energy s liquidity and results of operations.         Duke Energy s costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan
assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and Duke Energy s required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. While Duke Energy
complied with the minimum funding requirements as of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has certain qualified U.S. pension plans with obligations which exceeded the value of plan assets by approximately $1,308 million. Without sustained growth
in the pension investments over time to increase the value of Duke Energy s plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting Duke Energy s costs as listed above, Duke Energy could be required to fund its plans with significant
amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on Duke Energy s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.          
    Duke Energy is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, can increase Duke Energy s cost
of operations, and which may impact or limit Duke Energy s business plans, or expose Duke Energy to environmental liabilities.         Duke Energy is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of Duke
Energy s present and future operations, including air emissions (such as reducing NO x , SO 2  and mercury emissions in the U.S., or potential future control of greenhouse-gas emissions), water quality, wastewater discharges,
solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require Duke Energy to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses,
permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for clean up costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties, and failure to comply
with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. The steps Duke Energy takes to ensure that its facilities are in compliance could be prohibitively expensive. As a
result, Duke Energy may be required to shut down or alter the operation of its facilities, which may cause Duke Energy to incur losses. Further, Duke Energy s regulatory rate structure and Duke Energy s contracts with customers may not
necessarily allow Duke Energy to recover capital costs Duke Energy incurs to comply with new environmental regulations. Also, Duke Energy may not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for
Duke Energy s operating assets or development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if Duke Energy fails to obtain and comply with them or if environmental laws or regulations change and
become more stringent, then the operation of Duke Energy s facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed or become subject to additional costs. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current
environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy s financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not
have such an effect.       There is growing consensus that some form of regulation will be
forthcoming at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide (CO 2 )) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances.
     In addition, Duke Energy is generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental
condition of Duke Energy s power generation facilities and natural gas assets which Duke Energy has acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with some acquisitions and
sales of assets, Duke Energy may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If Duke Energy incurs a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations
to Duke Energy, Duke Energy could suffer material losses.               Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs that could adversely affect Duke Energy s financial position, results of operations or cash flows and Duke
Energy s utilities  businesses.         Increased competition resulting from deregulation or restructuring efforts, including from the
Energy Policy Act of 2005, could have a significant adverse financial impact on Duke Energy and Duke Energy s utility subsidiaries and consequently on Duke Energy s results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Increased
competition could also result in increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of electricity. Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy and gas service could have a significant adverse financial  
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

   PART I           
 impact on Duke Energy and Duke Energy s subsidiaries due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of
capital. Duke Energy cannot predict the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. Duke Energy cannot predict when Duke Energy will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can Duke Energy predict
the impact of these changes on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.               Duke Energy is involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcome of which are uncertain, and resolution adverse to Duke Energy could negatively affect Duke
Energy s financial position results of operations or cash flows.         Duke Energy is subject to numerous legal proceedings, including
claims for damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen prior to 1985 from the exposure to or use of asbestos at electric generation plants of Duke Energy Carolinas. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and Duke Energy cannot predict
the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which Duke Energy is involved could require Duke Energy to make additional expenditures, in excess of established
reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have a material effect on Duke Energy s cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, it is reasonably possible that the terms of resolution could require Duke
Energy to change Duke Energy s business practices and procedures, which could also have a material effect on Duke Energy s cash flows, financial position or results of operations.              Duke Energy s results of operations may be negatively affected by sustained
downturns or sluggishness in the economy, including low levels in the market prices of commodities, all of which are beyond Duke Energy s control.        Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affect the markets in which Duke Energy operates and negatively influence Duke Energy s energy operations. Declines in demand for electricity as a result of
economic downturns in Duke Energy s franchised electric service territories will reduce overall electricity sales and lessen Duke Energy s cash flows, especially as Duke Energy s industrial customers reduce production and, therefore,
consumption of electricity and gas. Although Duke Energy s franchised electric business is subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of certain costs, such as fuel under periodic adjustment clauses, overall declines in
electricity sold as a result of economic downturn or recession could reduce revenues and cash flows, thus diminishing results of operations. Additionally, prolonged economic downturns that negatively impact Duke Energy s results of operations
and cash flows could result in future material impairment charges being recorded to write-down the carrying value of certain assets, including goodwill, to their respective fair values.      Duke Energy also sells electricity into the spot market or other competitive power markets on a contractual basis. With respect to such transactions, Duke Energy is
not guaranteed any rate of return on Duke Energy s capital investments through mandated rates, and Duke Energy s revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices in Duke Energy s
regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and could reduce Duke Energy s revenues and margins and thereby diminish Duke Energy s results of
operations.      Factors that could impact sales volumes, generation of electricity and market prices at which Duke Energy is able to sell electricity are
as follows:   

weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather that cause lower energy usage for heating or cooling purposes, respectively, and periods of low
rainfall that decrease Duke Energy s ability to operate its facilities in an economical manner;      

supply of and demand for energy commodities;      

illiquid markets including reductions in trading volumes which result in lower revenues and earnings;      

general economic conditions, including downturns in the U.S. or other economies which impact energy consumption particularly in which sales to industrial or large commercial
customers comprise a significant portion of total sales;      

transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies which impact Duke Energy s non-regulated energy operations;      

availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, which are preferred by some customers over electricity produced from coal, nuclear or gas plants, and of
energy-efficient equipment which reduces energy demand;      

natural gas, crude oil and refined products production levels and prices;      

ability to procure satisfactory levels of inventory, such as coal and uranium;      

electric generation capacity surpluses which cause Duke Energy s non-regulated energy plants to generate and sell less electricity at lower prices and may cause some
plants to become non-economical to operate;            
   33   

Table of Contents  

   PART I         

capacity and transmission service into, or out of, Duke Energy s markets;      

natural disasters, acts of terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events to the extent they affect Duke Energy s operations and markets, as well as the cost
and availability of insurance covering such risks; and      

federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation.         These factors have led to industry-wide downturns that have resulted in the slowing down or stopping of construction of new power plants and announcements by Duke
Energy and other energy suppliers and gas pipeline companies of plans to sell non-strategic assets, subject to regulatory constraints, in order to boost liquidity or strengthen balance sheets. Proposed sales by other energy suppliers could increase
the supply of the types of assets that Duke Energy is attempting to sell. In addition, recent FERC actions addressing power market concerns could negatively impact the marketability of Duke Energy s electric generation assets.              Duke Energy s operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly
basis.        Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In most parts of the United States and other markets in which Duke Energy
operates, demand for power peaks during the warmer summer months, with market prices typically peaking at that time. In other areas, demand for power peaks during the winter. Further, extreme weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms
could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. As a result, in the future, the overall operating results of Duke Energy s businesses may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis and thus make period comparison
less relevant.              Duke Energy s business is subject to extensive
regulation that will affect Duke Energy s operations and costs.        Duke Energy is subject to regulation by FERC and the NRC, by federal,
state and local authorities under environmental laws and by state public utility commissions under laws regulating Duke Energy s businesses. Regulation affects almost every aspect of Duke Energy s businesses, including, among other things,
Duke Energy s ability to: take fundamental business management actions; determine the terms and rates of Duke Energy s transmission and distribution businesses  services; make acquisitions; issue equity or debt securities; engage in
transactions between Duke Energy s utilities and other subsidiaries and affiliates; and the ability of the operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to Duke Energy. Changes to these regulations are ongoing, and Duke Energy cannot predict the
future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on Duke Energy s business. However, changes in regulation (including re-regulating previously deregulated
markets) can cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and can substantially increase Duke Energy s costs.              New laws or regulations could have a negative impact on Duke Energy s results of operations.        Changes in laws and regulations affecting Duke Energy, including new accounting standards could change the way Duke Energy is required to record revenues, expenses,
assets and liabilities. These types of regulations could have a negative impact on Duke Energy s financial position, cash flows or results of operations or access to capital.              Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions could adversely affect Duke Energy s business.
       The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies may lead to
increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas and oil which may materially adversely affect Duke Energy in ways Duke Energy cannot predict at this time. In addition, future acts of terrorism
and any possible reprisals as a consequence of action by the United States and its allies could be directed against companies operating in the United States. Infrastructure and generation facilities such as Duke Energy s nuclear plants could be
potential targets of terrorist activities. The potential for terrorism has subjected Duke Energy s operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy s business. In particular, Duke Energy may experience
increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for its plants, including its nuclear power plants under the NRC s design basis threat requirements, such as additional physical plant security, additional security personnel
or additional capability following a terrorist incident.      The insurance industry has also been disrupted by these potential events. As a result, the
availability of insurance covering risks Duke Energy and Duke Energy s competitors typically insure against may decrease. In addition, the insurance Duke Energy is able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, lower coverage
limits and more restrictive policy terms.       Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to Duke Energy or that Duke Energy currently
deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect Duke Energy s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.          
   34   

Table of Contents  

   PART I               Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.       None.
              Item 2. Properties.              U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS             As of December 31, 2008, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas operated three nuclear generating stations with a combined net capacity
of 5,173 MW (including an approximate 19% ownership in the Catawba Nuclear Station), fifteen coal-fired stations with a combined net capacity of 13,472 MW, (including a 69% ownership in the East Bend Steam Station and an approximate 50% ownership in
Unit 5 of the Gibson Steam Station), thirty-one hydroelectric stations (including two pumped-storage facilities) with a combined net capacity of 3,263 MW, fifteen CT stations with a combined net capacity of 5,245 MW and one CC station with a net
capacity of 285 MW. The stations are located in North Carolina, South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky. The MW displayed in the table below are based on summer capacity.         

(A)  
  Duke Energy Indiana owns and operates Gibson Station Units 1-4 and owns 50.05% of Unit 5, but is the operator     

(B)  
  Includes Cayuga Internal Combustion (IC)     

(C)  
  Includes Wabash River IC           
   35   

Table of Contents  

   PART I            In addition, as of December 31, 2008, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas owned approximately 20,900 conductor miles of electric transmission lines, including 600
miles of 525 kilovolts, 1,800 miles of 345 kilovolts, 3,300 miles of 230 kilovolts, 8,800 miles of 100 to 161 kilovolts, and 6,400 miles of 13 to 69 kilovolts. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas also owned approximately 150,900 conductor miles of
electric distribution lines, including 103,300 miles of overhead lines and 47,600 miles of underground lines, as of December 31, 2008 and approximately 7,200 miles of gas mains and service lines. As of December 31, 2008, the electric
transmission and distribution systems had approximately 2,300 substations. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas also owns two underground caverns with a total storage capacity of approximately 16 million gallons of liquid propane. In addition, U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas has access to 5.5 million gallons of liquid propane storage and product loan through a commercial services agreement with a third party. This liquid propane is used in the three propane/air peak shaving plants
located in Ohio and Kentucky. Propane/air peak shaving plants vaporize the propane and mix with natural gas to supplement the natural gas supply during peak demand periods and emergencies.      Substantially all of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  electric plant in service is mortgaged under the indenture relating to Duke Energy Carolinas , Duke
Energy Ohio s and Duke Energy Indiana s various series of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds.      (For a map showing U.S. Franchised Electric
and Gas  properties, see  Business U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  earlier in this section.)             COMMERCIAL POWER              The following table provides information about Commercial Power s generation portfolio as of December 31, 2008. The MW displayed in the table below are
based on summer capacity.          

(A)  
  These generation facilities are jointly owned by Duke Energy Ohio and subsidiaries of American Electric Power, Inc. and Dayton Power and Light, Inc.        (For a map showing Commercial Power s properties, see  Business Commercial Power  earlier in this section.)         
   36   

Table of Contents  

   PART I             INTERNATIONAL ENERGY       The following table provides information about
International Energy s generation portfolio in continuing operations as of December 31, 2008.         
    International Energy also owns a 25% equity interest in NMC. In 2008, NMC produced approximately
1 million metric tons of methanol and 1 million metric tons of MTBE. Approximately 40% of methanol is normally used in the MTBE production. Additionally, International Energy owns a 25% equity interest in Attiki, which is a natural gas
distributor that has an exclusive 30 year license to supply natural gas to residential and commercial customers within the geographical area of Athens, Greece. (For additional information and a map showing International Energy s properties, see
 Business International Energy  earlier in this section.)             OTHER  
      Duke Energy owns approximately 5.7 million square feet of corporate, regional and district office space spread throughout its service
territories in the Carolinas and the Midwest. Additionally, Duke Energy leases approximately 1.5 million square feet of office space throughout the Carolinas, Midwest and in Houston, Texas. In February 2009, Duke Energy entered into a lease for
approximately 500,000 square feet of office space in Charlotte, North Carolina that will become its new corporate headquarters.                Item 3. Legal Proceedings.       For information
regarding legal proceedings, including regulatory and environmental matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters  and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and
Contingencies Litigation  and  Commitments and Contingencies Environmental.        Brazilian Regulatory Citations.  On
September 5, 2007, the State Environmental Agency of Parana assessed fines against International Energy of approximately $10 million for failure to comply with reforestation measures allegedly required by state regulations in Brazil.
International Energy believes that federal law is controlling and has challenged the assessment. In addition, International Energy was assessed a fine by the federal environmental agency, IBAMA, in the amount of approximately $150 thousand for
improper maintenance of existing reforested areas. International Energy believes that it has properly maintained all reforested areas and is also contesting this assessment.               Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.       No matters were submitted to a vote of Duke Energy s security holders during the fourth quarter of 2008.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

     PART II               Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.        Duke Energy s common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) (ticker symbol DUK). As of
February 23, 2009, there were approximately 165,931 common stockholders of record.              Common Stock Data by Quarter          

(a)  
  Stock prices represent the intra-day high and low stock price.     
          Duke Energy expects to continue its
policy of paying regular cash dividends; however, there is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, and financial condition, and are subject to declaration by the Board of
Directors.      Duke Energy s operating subsidiaries have certain restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of dividends or loans
to Duke Energy. See  Liquidity and Capital Resources  within  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for further information regarding these restrictions and their impacts on
Duke Energy s liquidity.             Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for Fourth
Quarter of 2008       There were no repurchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2008.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Stock Performance Graph       The performance graph below illustrates a five
year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Duke Energy Corporation common stock, as compared with the Standard   Poor s (S P) 500 Stock Index and the Philadelphia Utility Index for the
five-year period 2004 through 2008.      This performance chart assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in Duke Energy common stock, in the
S P 500 Stock Index and in the Philadelphia Utility Index and that all dividends are reinvested.           

             NYSE CEO Certification       Duke Energy has filed the certification of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as
exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. In May 2008, Duke Energy s Chief Executive Officer, as required by Section 303A.12(a) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, certified to the NYSE that he
was not aware of any violation by Duke Energy of the NYSE s corporate governance listing standards.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

   PART II               Item 6. Selected Financial Data.  (a)              
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

   PART II         

(a)  
  Significant transactions reflected in the results above include: 2007 spin-off of the natural gas businesses (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies ), 2006 merger with Cinergy (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets ), 2006 Crescent joint venture transaction and subsequent
deconsolidation effective September 7, 2006 (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets ), 2005 DENA disposition, 2005 deconsolidation of DCP Midstream
effective July 1, 2005, 2005 DEFS sale of TEPPCO and 2004 sale of the former DENA Southeast plants.     

(b)  
  2006 increase primarily attributable to issuance of approximately 313 million shares in connection with Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements,  Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets ).     

(c)  
  2007 decrease due to the spin-off of the natural gas businesses to shareholders on January 2, 2007 as dividends subsequent to the spin-off were split proportionately between Duke Energy
and Spectra Energy such that the sum of the dividends of the two stand-alone companies approximated the former total dividend of Duke Energy prior to the spin-off.           
   41   

Table of Contents  

   PART II               Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.              INTRODUCTION       Management s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.      On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas business to shareholders, as discussed below. Accordingly, the results of
operations of Duke Energy s Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additionally, in April 2006, Duke
Energy consummated the merger with Cinergy.             EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW        2008 Financial Results.  For the year-ended December 31, 2008, Duke Energy reported net income of $1,362 million and basic and diluted earnings per share
(EPS) of $1.08 and $1.07, respectively, as compared to net income of $1,500 million and basic and diluted EPS of $1.19 and $1.18, respectively, for the year-ended December 31, 2007. Income from continuing operations was $1,279 million for 2008
as compared to $1,522 million for 2007. Total reportable segment EBIT (defined below in  Segment Results  section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) increased to $3,073 million in
2008 from $2,971 million in 2007.      See  Results of Operations  below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as
well as a detailed discussion of EBIT results for each of Duke Energy s reportable business segments, as well as Other.       2008 Objectives .
Planning for future capital expansion and the related regulatory cost recovery structures was a primary focus in 2008. Over the period 2009 through 2013, Duke Energy plans to spend approximately $25 billion on capital expenditures, with
approximately $18 billion anticipated to support the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. During 2008 and early 2009, Duke Energy achieved important milestones with various state and federal regulators related to future capital projects. In the
Carolinas, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) issued the final air permit for Cliffside Unit 6, the state of the art coal generation unit at Duke Energy Carolinas  existing Cliffside Steam Station and Duke
Energy Carolinas entered into an engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning services agreement with an affiliate of The Shaw Group, Inc. related to participation in the construction of Cliffside Unit 6, which has a current cost
estimate of approximately $2.4 billion, which includes approximately $0.6 billion of allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC). On October 14, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas submitted revised hazardous air pollutant emissions
determination documentation including revised emission source information to North Carolina Department of Air Quality (DAQ) indicating that no maximum achievable control technology (MACT) or MACT-like requirements apply since Cliffside Unit 6 has
been demonstrated to be a minor source of hazardous air pollutants. On October 24, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed to amend its air permit to include emission limits to assure the public of the minor source status of Cliffside Unit 6. As of
December 31, 2008, the Cliffside Unit 6 project was approximately 30% complete. Duke Energy Carolinas is also continuing to seek all necessary regulatory approvals for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station, including December 2007
filings of a Combined Construction and Operating License (COL) application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), which was approved in February 2008, and requests to incur up to $230 million in development costs through 2009, which were
approved in 2008. Although these actions are necessary steps as management continues to pursue the option of building a new nuclear plant, submitting these applications does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build a nuclear unit. In Indiana, the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) issued an order in November 2007 granting Duke Energy Indiana a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) for the proposed 630 megawatt (MW) Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC)
power plant at the Edwardsport Generating Station, and construction is underway. The order also approved the timely recovery of costs related to the project. On January 7, 2009, the IURC approved Duke Energy Indiana s first semi-annual
IGCC Rider including a new cost estimate for the IGCC Project of $2.35 billion (including approximately $125 million of AFUDC) and cost recovery associated with a study on carbon capture. Duke Energy Indiana has begun construction on the Edwardsport
IGCC plant and entered into a $200 million engineering, procurement and construction management agreement with Bechtel Power Corporation in December 2008 in connection with the construction of the plant.      Management is continuing its focus on reducing regulatory lag, which refers to the period of time between making an investment and earning a return and recovering
that investment.      New legislation (SB 221) was passed on April 23, 2008 and signed by the Governor of Ohio on May 1, 2008. The new law
codifies the Public Utility Commission of Ohio s (PUCO) authority to approve an electric utility s standard service offer through an electric security plan (ESP), which would allow for pricing structures similar to the current rate
stabilization plan (RSP) in Ohio. On July 31, 2008, Duke  
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

   PART II           
 Energy Ohio filed a new generation pricing formula to be effective January 1, 2009, when the RSP is scheduled to expire. Among other things, the plan provides
pricing mechanisms for compensation related to the advanced energy, renewables and energy efficiency portfolio standards established by SB 221. On October 27, 2008 Duke Energy Ohio filed a Stipulation which results in a residential net
rate increase of 2% in 2009 and in 2010, and a non-residential rate increase of 2% in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Stipulation also allows the recovery of expenditures incurred to deploy SmartGrid infrastructure modernization technology on the
distribution system. The recovery of such expenditures, net of savings, is subject to an annual residential revenue cap. Further, the Stipulation allows for the implementation of a new energy efficiency compensation model, referred to as
Save-A-Watt, to achieve the energy efficiency mandate pursuant to the recent electric energy legislation. On December 17, 2008, the PUCO issued its finding and order, which adopted a modified Stipulation approving Duke Energy Ohio s ESP.
Specifically, the PUCO modified the Stipulation to permit certain non-residential customers to opt out of utility-sponsored energy efficiency initiatives and to allow residential governmental aggregation customers who leave Duke Energy Ohio s
system to avoid some charges. Applications for rehearing of the PUCO s decision have been filed by environmental groups and a residential customer advocate group.      Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71,   Accounting for the Effects
of Certain Types of Regulation,   (SFAS No. 71) due to the comprehensive electric deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. The approval of the ESP and SB 221 substantially increased the PUCO s oversight
authority over generation in the state of Ohio, including giving the PUCO complete approval of generation rates and the establishment of an earnings test to determine if a utility has earned significantly excessive earnings. Duke Energy Ohio
determined that certain costs and related rates (riders) of Commercial Power s operations related to generation serving native load meet the criteria established by SFAS No. 71 for regulatory accounting treatment. As a result of the
reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of Commercial Power s operations, Commercial Power s future results will be subject to less volatility that had been caused by the timing of under-and-over collections of certain costs,
as well as the impacts of mark-to-market activity on certain coal and power derivatives.      On February 28, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio reached a
settlement agreement with the PUCO Staff and all of the intervening parties on its request for an increase in natural gas base rates. The settlement called for an annual revenue increase of approximately $18 million in base revenue, or 3% over
current revenue, permitted continued recovery of costs through 2018 for Duke Energy Ohio s accelerated gas main replacement program and permitted recovery of carrying costs on gas stored underground via its monthly gas cost adjustment filing.
Certain rate design issues, which were unresolved at the time of the settlement, are currently under appeal at the Ohio Supreme Court.       On
June 25, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed notice with the PUCO that it will seek a rate increase for electric delivery service of approximately $86 million, or 4.8% on total electric revenues, to be effective in the second quarter of 2009.
Management expects the rate case to be resolved by mid-2009. In addition, Duke Energy intends to file for electric rate increases in North Carolina and South Carolina in 2009, with rates becoming effective in 2010.       Global climate change was another primary focus of management during 2008. Duke Energy s strategy for meeting customer demand while building a sustainable
business that allows our customers and our shareholders to prosper in a carbon-constrained environment includes significant commitments to renewable energy, customer energy efficiency, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency
natural gas electric generating plants, and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. In order to expand its wind energy operations, Commercial Power, through Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), acquired the wind power
development assets of Energy Investor Funds from Tierra Energy in May 2007 and, in September 2008, acquired Catamount Energy Corporation (Catamount) from Diamond Castle Partners. DEGS currently has approximately 370 net MW of wind energy in
operation and well over 5,000 MW of wind energy projects in the development pipeline. On June 6, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC for approval of a Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Distributed Generation Program. The
application seeks authorization to invest approximately $100 million to install approximately 850 solar PV facilities on customer rooftops and other customer and company owned property over a two-year period, resulting in a total generating capacity
of 20 MW. On October 20, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed rebuttal testimony, agreeing to reduce the size of the program to an investment of approximately $50 million to install a total generating capacity of 10 MW to address concerns raised
by other parties to the proceeding. On December 31, 2008, the NCUC issued its Order Granting the CPCN subject to certain conditions.      Management
is also making progress on increasing the role energy efficiency will have in meeting customers  growing energy needs. Energy efficiency is considered a  fifth fuel  in the portfolio available to meet customers  growing needs for
electricity, along with coal, nuclear, natural gas and renewable energy. During 2007, new energy efficiency plans were filed in North Carolina, South Carolina and Indiana and energy efficiency programs were expanded in both Kentucky and Ohio. The
energy efficiency plans filed in North Carolina,  
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            
 South Carolina and Indiana are Save-A-Watt programs that would compensate Duke Energy for verified reductions in energy use and be available to all customer groups. In
North Carolina, the NCUC ruled on February 26, 2009 to approve the proposed energy efficiency plan but did not approve cost recovery as the NCUC requested additional information regarding the earnings potential under the proposed Save-A-Watt
recovery mechanism. In South Carolina the PSCSC issued a directive rejecting Duke Energy Carolinas  Save-A-Watt energy efficiency plan on February 25, 2009. In Indiana, a settlement agreement was filed with the IURC between Duke Energy Indiana
and several intervenors and an evidentiary hearing is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2009. On December 1, 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky filed an application for a Save-a-Watt Energy Efficiency Plan. The application seeks a new energy
efficiency recovery mechanism similar to what was proposed in Ohio and Indiana. The ESP approved by the PUCO, as discussed above, includes certain stipulations for Duke Energy Ohio s energy efficiency programs.       Overall, the regulatory and legislative accomplishments during 2008 have positioned Duke Energy well for 2009 and beyond.       Duke Energy Objectives   2009 and beyond.  Management of Duke Energy continues to focus on the following objectives:   

Pursue a balanced approach to meeting future energy needs by pursuing new supply options, including energy efficiency, coal gasification, advanced pulverized coal, nuclear,
natural gas-fired generation and renewable energy, while considering whether they are available, affordable, reliable and clean;      

Pursue low-carbon and no-carbon solutions for meeting future energy needs in anticipation of a carbon-constrained world;      

Control costs, run the businesses efficiently and provide excellent customer service; and      

Meet 2009 financial objectives and, for the long-term, deliver on its promise to shareholders by steadily growing earnings and dividends.      
  The majority of future earnings are anticipated to be contributed from U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, which consists of Duke Energy s regulated
businesses that currently own a capacity of approximately 28,000 megawatts of generation. The regulated generation portfolio consists of a mix of coal, nuclear, natural gas and hydroelectric generation, with the substantial majority of all of the
sales of electricity coming from coal and nuclear generation facilities. Commercial Power has net capacity of approximately 7,550 megawatts of regulated and unregulated generation, excluding wind assets, of which approximately 4,000 megawatts serves
retail customers under the ESP in Ohio. Approximately 75% of International Energy s net capacity of approximately 4,000 megawatts of installed generation capacity in Latin America consists of base load hydroelectric capacity that carries a low
level of dispatch risk; in addition, for 2009 approximately 90% of International Energy s contractible capacity in Latin America is either currently contracted or receives a system capacity payment.      As a result of the downturn in the economy, Duke Energy has experienced reductions in sales volumes, most notably with respect to industrial customers. Management
anticipates that recessionary pressures will continue in 2009, resulting in essentially flat kilowatt-hour sales in both the Carolinas and the Midwest service territories. In order to address these pressures, management is focused on containing
costs and achieving constructive regulatory outcomes to reduce regulatory lag.      As mentioned earlier, during the five-year period from 2009 to 2013,
Duke Energy anticipates total capital expenditures of approximately $25 billion. Of this amount, approximately 30% is expected to be spent on committed projects, including base load power plants to meet long term growth in customer demand, ongoing
environmental projects, and nuclear fuel. Approximately 50% of capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance, customer connections, and corporate expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately
necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth. The remaining planned capital expenditures are of a discretionary nature and relate to
growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities to meet return expectations along with assurance of constructive regulatory treatment in the regulated businesses. Capital expenditures are currently estimated to
be approximately $4.8 billion in 2009. These expenditures are principally related to expansion plans, maintenance costs, environmental spending related to Clean Air Act requirements and nuclear fuel. Duke Energy is committed to adding base load
capacity at a reasonable price while modernizing the current generation facilities by replacing older, less efficient plants with cleaner, more efficient plants. Significant expansion projects include the new IGCC plant at Duke Energy Indiana s
Edwardsport Generating Station, a new 825 MW coal unit at Duke Energy Carolinas  existing Cliffside facility in North Carolina and new gas-fired generation units at Duke Energy Carolinas  existing Dan River and Buck Steam Stations, as well
as other additions due to system growth. Additionally, Duke Energy is evaluating the potential construction of the William States Lee III nuclear power plant in Cherokee County, South Carolina. Costs related to environmental spending are expected to
decrease over the five-year period as the upgrades to comply with the new environmental regulations are completed.      Duke Energy anticipates capital
expenditures at Commercial Power will primarily relate to growth opportunities, such as renewable energy generation projects and environmental control equipment, as well as maintenance on existing plants. Capital expenditures at  
       
   44   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            
 International Energy, which will be funded with cash held or raised by International Energy, will primarily be for strategic growth opportunities, as well as
maintenance on existing plants. Duke Energy does not currently anticipate any additional capital investment related to its investment in the Crescent JV.       With the exception of equity issuances to fund the dividend reinvestment plan and other internal plans, Duke Energy does not currently anticipate funding capital expenditures with the issuance of common equity in the foreseeable future, but
rather through the use of available cash and cash equivalents as well as the issuance of incremental debt. Further, at this time, Duke Energy does not believe the recent market developments significantly impact its ability to obtain financing and
fully expects to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates and terms. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate
bank commitments of approximately $3.14 billion. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of approximately $1.2 billion under this facility. For further information related to management s assessment of liquidity
and capital resources, including known trends and uncertainties, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources  below.      As the majority of Duke
Energy s anticipated future capital expenditures are related to its regulated operations, a risk to Duke Energy is the ability to recover costs related to such expansion in a timely manner. Energy legislation passed in North Carolina and South
Carolina in 2007 provides, among other things, mechanisms for Duke Energy to recover financing costs for new nuclear or coal base load generation during the construction phase. In Indiana, Duke Energy has received approval to recover its development
costs for the new IGCC plant at the Edwardsport Generating Station. Duke Energy has received approval for nearly $260 million of future federal tax credits related to costs to be incurred for the modernization of Cliffside Unit 6, as well as the
IGCC plant in Indiana. In addition, Duke Energy has received general assurances from the NCUC that the North Carolina allocable portion of development costs associated with the William States Lee III nuclear station will be recoverable through a
future rate case proceeding as long as the costs are deemed prudent and reasonable. Duke Energy does not anticipate beginning construction of the proposed nuclear power plant without adequate assurance of cost recovery from the state legislators or
regulators.      In summary, Duke Energy is coordinating its future capital expenditure requirements with regulatory initiatives in order to ensure
adequate and timely cost recovery while continuing to provide low cost energy to its customers.        Economic Factors for Duke Energy s
Business.  Duke Energy s business model provides diversification between stable regulated businesses like U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and certain portions of Commercial Power s operations, and the traditionally higher-growth
businesses like the unregulated portion of Commercial Power s operations and International Energy. As was the case throughout 2008, all of Duke Energy s businesses can be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the
economy, including low market prices of commodities, all of which are beyond Duke Energy s control, and could impair Duke Energy s ability to meet its goals for 2009 and beyond.       Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns would reduce overall electricity sales and lessen Duke Energy s cash flows, especially as
industrial customers reduce production and, thus, consumption of electricity. A weakening economy could also impact Duke Energy s customer s ability to pay, causing increased delinquencies, slowing collections and lead to higher than
normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debts and financing requirements. A portion of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  business risk is mitigated by its regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel costs under fuel adjustment
clauses. The approval of the ESP in Ohio also helps mitigate a portion of the risk associated with certain portions of Commercial Power s generation operations by providing mechanisms for recovery of certain costs associated with, among other
things, fuel and purchased power for native-load customers.      If negative market conditions should persist over time and estimated cash flows over the
lives of Duke Energy s individual assets, including goodwill, do not exceed the carrying value of those individual assets, asset impairments may occur in the future under existing accounting rules and diminish results of operations. A change in
management s intent about the use of individual assets (held for use versus held for sale) could also result in impairments or losses.      Duke
Energy s 2009 goals can also be substantially at risk due to the regulation of its businesses. Duke Energy s businesses in the United States are subject to regulation on the federal and state level. Regulations, applicable to the electric
power industry, have a significant impact on the nature of the businesses and the manner in which they operate. Changes to regulations are ongoing and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in the regulatory environment or the
ultimate effect that any future changes will have on its business.      Duke Energy s earnings are impacted by fluctuations in commodity prices.
Exposure to commodity prices generates higher earnings volatility in the unregulated businesses as there are timing differences as to when such costs are recovered in rates. To mitigate these risks, Duke Energy enters into derivative instruments to
effectively hedge some, but not all, known exposures.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            Additionally, Duke Energy s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries,
taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict and may impact Duke Energy s future results.      Duke Energy also relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not met by cash
flow from operations. An inability to access capital at competitive rates or at all could adversely affect Duke Energy s ability to implement its strategy. Market disruptions or a downgrade of Duke Energy s credit rating may increase
its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access one or more sources of liquidity. Additionally, if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there are no assurances that commitments made by lenders under
Duke Energy s credit facilities will be available if needed as a source of funding due to the turmoil throughout the financial services industry.      For further information related to management s assessment of Duke Energy s risk factors, see Item 1A.  Risk Factors.              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS              Consolidated Operating Revenues        Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007.  Consolidated
operating revenues for 2008 increased approximately $487 million compared to 2007. This change was primarily driven by the following:   

An approximate $419 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Revenue discussion within  Segment Results  for U.S. Franchised Electric and
Gas below for further information; and      

An approximate $125 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within  Segment Results  for International Energy below for further
information.         Partially offsetting these increases was:   

An approximate $55 million decrease at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within  Segment Results  for Commercial Power below for further
information.          Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006.  Consolidated operating revenues for
2007 increased $2,113 million, compared to 2006. This change was driven primarily by the following:   

An approximate $1,642 million increase at U. S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Revenue discussion within  Segment Results  for U.S. Franchised Electric
and Gas below for further information;      

An approximate $550 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within  Segment Results  for Commercial Power below for further
information; and      

An approximate $117 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within  Segment Results  for International Energy below for further
information.         Partially offsetting these increases was:   

An approximate $194 million decrease at Other. See Operating Revenue discussion within  Segment Results  for Other below for further information.
               Consolidated Operating Expenses        Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007.  Consolidated operating expenses for 2008 increased approximately $543 million
compared to 2007. This change was driven primarily by the following:   

An approximate $401 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Expense discussion within  Segment Results  for U.S. Franchised Electric and
Gas below for further information;      

An approximate $123 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within  Segment Results  for International Energy below for further
information; and      

An approximate $27 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within  Segment Results  for Commercial Power below for further
information.            
   46   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006.  Consolidated operating expenses for 2007 increased approximately $1,012 million,
compared to 2006. This change was driven primarily by the following:   

An approximate $1,169 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Expense discussion within  Segment Results  for U.S. Franchised Electric
and Gas below for further information; and      

An approximate $326 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within  Segment Results  for Commercial Power below for further
information.         Partially offsetting these increases were:   

An approximate $400 million decrease in Other. See Operating Expense discussion within  Segment Results  for Other below for further information; and

An approximate $62 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within  Segment Results  for International Energy below for further
information.                 Consolidated Gains on Sales of Investments in
Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate       Consolidated gains on sales of investments in commercial and multi-family real estate were zero in both
2008 and 2007 as a result of the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy s investment in Crescent as an equity method investment. Gains amounted to approximately $201 million in 2006. The gain
in 2006 was driven primarily by pre-tax gains from the sale of two office buildings at Potomac Yard in Washington, D.C. and a gain on a land sale at Lake Keowee in northwestern South Carolina.             Consolidated Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net       Consolidated gains (losses) on sales of other assets and other, net was a gain of approximately $69 million in 2008, a loss of approximately $5 million for 2007 and
a gain of approximately $223 million for 2006. The gain in 2008 relates primarily to Commercial Power s sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, while the loss in 2007 relates primarily to Commercial Power s sales of emission
allowances acquired in connection with Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy in April 2006 which were written up to fair value as part of purchase accounting. The gain in 2006 was due primarily to the pre-tax gains resulting from the sale of an
effective 50% interest in Crescent, creating a joint venture between Duke Energy and MSREF (approximately $246 million), partially offset by Commercial Power s losses on sales of emission allowances acquired in connection with Duke
Energy s merger with Cinergy in April 2006 which were written up to fair value as part of purchase accounting (approximately $29 million).             Consolidated Operating Income        Year Ended December 31, 2008 as
Compared to December 31, 2007.  For 2008, consolidated operating income increased approximately $18 million compared to 2007. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.       Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006.  For 2007, consolidated operating income increased approximately $672 million
compared to 2006. Increased operating income was partially driven by an approximate $237 million favorable impact generated during the first quarter of 2007 related to legacy Cinergy operations (reflected in the results for U.S. Franchised Electric
and Gas and Commercial Power) for which there was zero in the comparable period of the prior year since the Cinergy merger occurred effective April 2006, as well as factors discussed above.      Other drivers to operating income are discussed above. For more detailed discussions, see the segment discussions that follow.             Consolidated Other Income and Expenses        Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007.  For 2008, consolidated other income and expenses decreased approximately $307
million compared to 2007. This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in equity earnings of approximately $259 million due primarily to impairment charges recorded by Crescent, of which Duke Energy s proportionate share was approximately
$238 million, partially offset by increased equity earnings from International Energy of approximately $25 million primarily related to its investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) primarily as a result of higher margins, an approximate $62
million decrease in interest income primarily due to favorable income tax settlements in 2007 and lower earnings on invested cash and short-term investment balances during 2008 as compared to 2007, an approximate $54 million decrease due to
unfavorable investment returns and an approximate $34 million decrease associated with foreign currency losses due primarily to losses in 2008 associated with the remeasurement of certain U.S. dollar denominated cash and debt balances at
International Energy, partially offset by an approximate $80 million increase  
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

   PART II           
 in the equity component of AFUDC as a result of increased capital spending and the absence of convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million recognized in 2007
related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.       Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006.  For 2007, consolidated
other income and expenses increased $74 million, compared to 2006. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in equity earnings of $34 million due primarily to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006 and the subsequent accounting
for Crescent as an equity method investment and increased equity earnings from International Energy of approximately $22 million primarily related to its investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) primarily as a result of higher margins,
approximately $34 million increase in interest income, largely as a result of increased earnings from higher average invested cash and short-term investment balances during 2007 as compared to 2006 (of which approximately $19 million of the increase
relates to interest income of legacy Cinergy in the first quarter 2007 with no comparable amount in 2006), partially offset by lower interest income related to income taxes resulting primarily from favorable income tax settlements in 2006, a $17
million impairment charge at International Energy recorded during the second quarter of 2006, and convertible debt costs of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.             Consolidated Interest Expense        Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007.  Consolidated interest expense increased approximately $56 million in 2008 as
compared to 2007. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances, partially offset by a higher debt component of AFUDC and capitalized interest due to increased capital spending.       Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006.  For 2007, consolidated interest expense increased $53 million, compared to
2006. This increase was due primarily to the debt assumed from the merger with Cinergy, higher interest on debt in Brazil and interest expense recorded on tax items primarily as a result of the adoption of FIN No. 48,   Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109   (FIN 48), partially offset by debt reductions and financing activities and an increase in the debt component of AFUDC resulting from increased capital
spending.             Consolidated Minority Interest (Benefit) Expense        Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007.  Minority interest (benefit) expense was a benefit of approximately $4 million for
2008 as compared to an expense of approximately $2 million in 2007. This decrease was primarily due to losses at Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM).       Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006.  For 2007, consolidated minority interest expense decreased $11 million, compared to 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower earnings at
Aguaytia in 2007 and the deconsolidation of Crescent.             Consolidated Income Tax Expense
from Continuing Operations        Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007.  For 2008, consolidated income tax
expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $96 million compared to 2007. This decrease primarily resulted from lower pre-tax income in 2008 compared to 2007. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased
to approximately 33% compared to 32% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate during 2008 is primarily attributable to adjustments related to prior year tax returns, an increase in foreign taxes, a decrease
in the manufacturing deduction and a deferred state tax benefit recorded in 2007 partially offset by higher AFUDC equity and a tax benefit recorded for certain foreign restructurings.       Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006.  For 2007, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased
approximately $262 million compared to 2006. The increase is primarily the result of higher pre-tax income in 2007 as compared to 2006. Additionally, the effective tax rate increased for the year ended December 31, 2007 (32%) compared to
2006 (29%), due primarily to prior year favorable tax settlements on research and development costs and nuclear decommissioning costs, and tax benefits related to the impairment of an investment in Bolivia, partially offset by an increase in the
manufacturing deduction in 2007 and higher foreign taxes accrued in 2006.             Consolidated Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax       Consolidated income (loss) from discontinued operations was
income of $16 million for 2008, a loss of $22 million for 2007 and income of $783 million for 2006. The 2008 amount is primarily comprised of Commercial Power s sale of its 480 MW natural gas-fired peaking generating station located near
Brownsville, Tennessee to Tennessee Valley Authority, which resulted in an approximate $15 million after-tax gain.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            The 2007 amount is primarily comprised of an after-tax loss of approximately $18 million associated with former DENA contract settlements, an after-tax loss of
approximately $8 million related to Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations and after-tax earnings of approximately $23 million related to Commercial Power s synfuel operations.      The 2006 amount is primarily comprised of after-tax earnings of approximately $953 million related to the natural gas businesses that were spun off to shareholders
on January 2, 2007, approximately $140 million of after-tax losses associated with certain contract terminations or sales at former DENA, and the recognition of approximately $17 million of after-tax losses associated with exiting the
Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations.      See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Discontinued Operations and Assets
Held for Sale  for additional information related to discontinued operations.             Extraordinary Item, net of tax       The reapplication of SFAS No. 71 on December 17, 2008 resulted in an approximate $67 million
after-tax (approximately $103 million pre-tax) extraordinary gain related to total mark-to-market losses previously recorded in earnings associated with open forward native load economic hedge contracts for fuel, purchased power and emission
allowances, which the ESP allows to be recovered through a fuel and purchased power rider.             Segment Results       Management evaluates segment performance based on earnings before interest and taxes from continuing operations,
after deducting minority interest expense related to those profits (EBIT). On a segment basis, EBIT excludes discontinued operations, represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and
taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed centrally by Duke Energy, so interest and dividend income on those balances, as well as gains and losses on
remeasurement of foreign currency denominated balances, are excluded from the segments  EBIT. Management considers segment EBIT to be a good indicator of each segment s operating performance from its continuing operations, as it represents
the results of Duke Energy s ownership interest in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.      See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements,  Business Segments,  for a discussion of Duke Energy s segment structure.      Duke Energy s
segment EBIT may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company because other entities may not calculate EBIT in the same manner. Segment EBIT is summarized in the following table, and detailed discussions follow.             EBIT by Business Segment          

(a)  
  Other includes the results of Crescent for all periods presented as, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent is no longer an operating segment of Duke Energy.

(b)  
  In September 2006, Duke Energy completed a joint venture transaction of Crescent. As a result, Other segment data for 2006 includes Crescent as a consolidated entity for periods prior to
September 7, 2006 and as an equity method investment for periods subsequent to September 7, 2006.     

(c)  
  Other within Interest income and other includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and additional minority interest expense not allocated to the segment results.
          
   49   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            Minority interest expense presented below includes only minority interest expense related to EBIT of Duke Energy s joint ventures. It does not include minority
interest expense related to interest and taxes of the joint ventures.      Segment EBIT, as discussed below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses
that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.             U.S. Franchised
Electric and Gas          

(a)  
  Gigawatt-hours (GWh).     

(b)  
  Relates to operations of former Cinergy from the date of acquisition and thereafter.     

(c)  
  Duke Energy Ohio Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana) and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky) collectively referred to as Duke Energy
Midwest.     

(d)  
  Megawatt (MW).         The following table shows the percent changes in GWh
sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas.         

(a)  
  Major components of Duke Energy Carolinas  retail sales.     

(b)  
  Consists of all components of Duke Energy Carolinas  sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power
marketers.        The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Midwest

(a)  
  Major components of Duke Energy Midwest s retail sales.     

(b)  
  Consists of all components of Duke Energy Midwest s sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power
marketers.           
   50   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007        Operating Revenues.  The increase was driven primarily by:   

A $474 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by higher fuel rates in all regions and legislative changes that allow Duke Energy
Carolinas to collect additional purchased power and environmental compliance costs from retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to both retail and wholesale customers; and      

A $92 million increase related to substantial completion in 2007 of the sharing of anticipated merger savings through rate decrement riders with regulated customers.
        Partially offsetting these increases were:   

A $73 million decrease in weather adjusted sales volumes to retail customers reflecting the overall declining economic conditions, which are primarily impacting the
industrial sector;      

A $53 million decrease in retail rates and rate riders primarily related to the new retail base rates implemented in North Carolina in the first quarter of 2008, net of
increases in recoveries of Duke Energy Indiana s environmental compliance costs from retail customers and higher gas base rates implemented in the second quarter of 2008 for Duke Energy Ohio; and      

A $49 million decrease in GWh/thousand cubic feet (Mcf) sales to retail customers due to milder weather in 2008 compared to 2007. While weather statistics for heating degree
days in 2008 were favorable compared to 2007, this favorable impact was more than offset by the impact of fewer cooling degree days in 2008 compared to 2007.          Operating Expenses.  The increase was driven primarily by:   

A $441 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to higher coal and natural gas prices and increased
purchased power. This increase also reflects a $21 million reimbursement in first quarter 2007 of previously incurred fuel expenses resulting from a settlement between Duke Energy Carolinas and U.S. Department of Justice resolving Duke Energy
Carolinas  used nuclear fuel litigation against the Department of Energy (DOE). The settlement between the parties was finalized on March 5, 2007;      

A $67 million increase in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending; and      

A $66 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher scheduled outage and maintenance costs at nuclear and fossil generating plants, storm
costs primarily in the Midwest related to Hurricane Ike in September 2008 net of deferral of a portion of the Ohio and Kentucky storm costs associated with Hurricane Ike, increased capacity costs due to additional contracts that were entered into in
late 2007 to ensure customer electricity needs were met despite ongoing drought conditions and increased power delivery maintenance charges to increase system reliability, partially offset by lower benefit costs including short-term incentives.
        Partially offsetting these increases was:   

A $170 million decrease in regulatory amortization expenses, including approximately $187 million for the amortization of compliance costs related to North Carolina clean air
legislation, which was completed in 2007. This decrease was partially offset by the write-off in 2007 of a portion of the investment in the GridSouth RTO (approximately $17 million) per a rate order from the NCUC.          Other Income and Expenses, net.  The increase is due primarily to the equity component of AFUDC due to additional capital spending for ongoing construction
projects and a favorable $25 million IURC ruling.       EBIT . The increase resulted primarily from decreased regulatory amortization, the
substantial completion of the required rate reductions due to the merger with Cinergy and increased AFUDC. These increases were partially offset by the impacts of the unfavorable economy on sales, milder weather, additional depreciation as rate base
increased during 2008, higher operation and maintenance costs, overall net lower retail rates and rate riders, and the 2007 DOE settlement.             Matters Impacting Future U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas Results       U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas continues to increase the number of retail customers served, maintain low costs and deliver high-quality customer service in the Carolinas and Midwest; however, sales to all retail customer classes were
negatively impacted by the economic downturn in 2008, particularly sales to the industrial and residential sector. These trends are expected to continue for some period into 2009, and perhaps beyond, until the economy begins to recover. The general
decline in the textile industry in the Carolinas, exacerbated by the struggling economy, is also expected to continue in 2009, fueled by the expiration of certain import limitations related to foreign textile products.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             The North Carolina rate order resulting from the 2007 rate review included a one-time increment rider of approximately $80 million related to merger savings,
effective for retail sales in 2008. The expiration of this rider will have an unfavorable impact on 2009 revenue. Various regulatory activities will continue in 2009. Additionally, Duke Energy Carolinas will continue to consider pursuing legislative
initiatives that would allow more real-time recovery of costs. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters  for information regarding various regulatory activities that could impact U.S. Franchised Electric and
Gas in 2009, including the PUCO s December 17, 2008 approval of Duke Energy Ohio s ESP.       U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas
evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment under the guidance of SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Intangible Assets  . For further information on key assumptions that impact U.S. Franchised Electric and
Gas  goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment. As of the date of the 2008 annual impairment analysis, the fair value of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  reporting units exceeded their
respective carrying value, thus no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. However, management is continuing to monitor the impact of recent market and economic events to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of the U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units have been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2009 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, management would
perform an interim impairment assessment of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  goodwill and it is possible that goodwill impairment charges could be recorded as a result of these assessments. At December 31, 2008, the U.S. Franchised
Electric and Gas segment had goodwill of approximately $3.5 billion.       Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006  
      Operating Revenues.  The increase was driven primarily by:   

A $1,066 million increase in regulated revenues for the first quarter of 2007 due to the merger with Cinergy;      

A $212 million increase in fuel revenues, including emission allowances, driven by increased fuel rates for retail customers and increased GWh sales to retail customers;

A $188 million increase in GWh sales to retail customers due to favorable weather conditions. For the Carolinas and Midwest, cooling degree days for 2007 were approximately
27% and 48% above normal, respectively, compared to close to normal in both regions during 2006;      

An $82 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, due to increased sales volumes primarily due to additional long-term contracts;

A $57 million increase in retail rates and rate riders primarily related to the new electric base rates implemented in the first quarter of 2007 for Duke Energy Kentucky and
the recovery of environmental compliance costs from retail customers in Indiana; and      

A $40 million increase related to the sharing of anticipated merger savings through rate decrement riders with regulated customers, which was substantially completed prior to
the third quarter of 2007.          Operating Expenses.  The increase was driven primarily by:   

An $852 million increase in regulated operating expenses for the first quarter of 2007 due to the merger with Cinergy;      

A $137 million increase in operating and maintenance expense primarily due to higher wage and benefit costs, including increased short-term incentive costs, and maintenance
costs at fossil and nuclear generating plants, partially offset by a one time $12 million donation in the second quarter 2006 ordered by the NCUC as a condition of the Cinergy merger;      

A $133 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather conditions. Generation fueled by
coal and natural gas, as well as purchases to meet retail customer requirements, increased significantly during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a $21
million reimbursement for previously incurred fuel expenses resulting from a settlement between Duke Energy Carolinas and the U.S. Department of Justice resolving Duke Energy s used nuclear fuel litigation against the Department of Energy
(DOE). The settlement between the parties was finalized on March 6, 2007; and      

A $40 million increase in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending in the Carolinas.            
   52   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            Partially offsetting these increases was:   

A $6 million net decrease in regulatory amortization expense primarily due to decreased amortization of compliance costs related to North Carolina clean air legislation
during 2007 as compared to the prior year. Regulatory amortization expenses related to clean air were approximately $187 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to approximately $225 million during the same period in 2006. This
decrease was partially offset by the write-off of a portion of the investment in the GridSouth RTO (approximately $17 million) per a rate order from the NCUC and Ohio s regulatory amortization related to the rate transition charge rider and new
demand side management (DSM) rider.           Other Income and Expenses, net.  The increase is primarily attributable to the equity
component of AFUDC earned from additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects.        EBIT . The increase resulted primarily from
the merger with Cinergy, favorable weather conditions, additional long-term wholesale contracts, increase in retail rates and rate riders and the substantial completion of the required rate reductions due to the merger with Cinergy. These increases
were partially offset by increased operating and maintenance expenses and additional depreciation as rate base increased during 2007.             Commercial Power          
           Year Ended December 31,
2008 as compared to December 31, 2007        Operating Revenues.  The decrease was primarily driven by:   

A $21 million decrease in wholesale electric revenues due to lower hedge realization and lower generation volumes primarily resulting from increased plant outages in 2008
compared to 2007;      

A $20 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $72 million in 2008
compared to losses of $52 million in 2007; and      

A $17 million decrease in revenues due to lower generation volumes from the Midwest gas-fired assets resulting from milder weather net of increased PJM capacity revenues in
2008 compared to 2007.          Operating Expenses.  The increase was primarily driven by:   

An $82 million impairment of emission allowances due to the invalidation of the CAIR in July 2008;      

A $68 million increase in fuel expense due to mark-to-market losses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $3 million in 2008 compared
to gains of $65 million in 2007; and      
    Partially offsetting these increases were:   

A $63 million decrease in emission allowance expenses due to lower cost basis emission allowances consumed and lower overall emission allowance consumption due to
installation of flue gas desulfurization equipment and lower generation volumes due to increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007;      

A $46 million decrease in net fuel and purchased power expense for retail load due to realized gains on fuel hedges partially offset by higher purchased power as a result of
increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007; and            
   53   

Table of Contents  

   PART II         

A $24 million decrease in fuel and operating expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to lower generation volumes and lower amortization of locked-in hedge
losses in 2008 compared to 2007, net of an approximate $15 million bad debt reserve related to the Lehman Bros. bankruptcy and higher plant maintenance expenses.          Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net . The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 is attributable to gains on sales of emission allowances in
2008 compared to losses on sales of emission allowances in 2007. Gains in 2008 were a result of sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, while losses in 2007 were as a result of sales of emission allowances acquired in connection with Duke
Energy s merger with Cinergy in 2006 which were written up to fair value as part of purchase accounting.       EBIT.  The decrease is primarily
attributable to higher mark-to-market losses on economic hedges due to decreasing commodity prices, the impairment of emission allowances, lower retail and wholesale revenues resulting from lower volumes due to the weakening economy and plant
outages. Partially offsetting these decreases were gains on sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, lower emission allowance expense due to lower cost basis emission allowances consumed and lower consumption due to installation of flue gas
desulfurization equipment and lower purchase accounting expense primarily due to the RSP valuation.             Matters Impacting Future Commercial Power Results        Commercial Power s current strategy is focused on maximizing the returns and cash flows from its current portfolio, as well as growing its non-regulated renewable energy portfolio. Results for Commercial Power are sensitive to changes
in power supply, power demand, fuel prices and weather, as well as dependent upon completion of energy asset construction projects and tax credits on renewable energy production.       Commercial Power s generation operations in the Midwest include generation assets located in Ohio that are dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers. These
assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales outside the native load customer base, and such revenue is termed non-native. Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71
due to the comprehensive electric deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. As described further below, effective December 17, 2008, the PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio s ESP, which resulted in the reapplication of SFAS
No. 71 to certain portions of Commercial Power s operations as of that date.       From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008,
Commercial Power had been operating under a RSP, which is a market-based standard service offer. Although the RSP contained certain trackers that enhanced the potential for cost recovery, there was no assurance of stranded cost recovery upon the
expiration of the RSP on December 31, 2008 since it was initially anticipated that, upon the expiration of the RSP, there would be a move to full competitive markets. Accordingly, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of SFAS
No. 71 to any of its generation operations prior to December 17, 2008. In connection with the approval of the ESP, Duke Energy Ohio reassessed the applicability of SFAS No. 71 to Commercial Power s generation operations as SB 221
substantially increased the PUCO s oversight authority over generation in the state of Ohio, including giving the PUCO complete approval of generation rates and the establishment of an earnings test to determine if a utility has earned
significantly excessive earnings. Duke Energy Ohio determined that certain costs and related rates (riders) of Commercial Power s operations related to generation serving native load meet the criteria established by SFAS No. 71 for
regulatory accounting treatment as SB 221 and Duke Energy s approved ESP solidified the automatic recovery of certain costs of its generation serving native load and increased the likelihood that these operations will remain under a cost
recovery model for certain costs for the foreseeable future.       Under the ESP, Commercial Power will bill for its native load generation via
numerous riders. SB 221 and the ESP resulted in the approval of the automatic recovery of certain of these riders, which includes, but is not limited to, a fuel and purchased power (FPP) rider and portions of a cost of environmental compliance (AAC)
rider. Accordingly, Commercial Power began applying SFAS No. 71 to the corresponding RSP riders granting automatic recovery under the ESP on December 17, 2008. The remaining portions of Commercial Power s Ohio native load generation
operations, revenues from which are reflected in rate riders for which the ESP does not specifically allow automatic cost recovery, as well as all generation operations associated with non-native customers, including Commercial Power s Midwest
gas-fired generation assets, continue to not apply regulatory accounting as those operations do not meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers continue to have the
ability to switch to alternative supplier for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there is a risk that some or all of the regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. The level of switching to date has
been insignificant. Duke Energy Ohio will continue to monitor the amount of native load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when assessing the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its native load generation
operations.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            As a result of the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of Commercial Power s operations, Commercial Power s future results will be
subject to less volatility that had been caused by the timing of under-and-over collections of certain costs, as well as the impacts of mark-to-market activity on certain coal and power derivatives.      Commercial Power evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment under the guidance of SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Intangible
Assets  . For further information on key assumptions that impact Commercial Power s goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment. As of the date of the 2008 annual impairment analysis, the fair
value of Commercial Power s reporting units exceeded their respective carrying value, thus no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. However, management is continuing to monitor the impact of recent market and economic events to determine
if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of Commercial Power s reporting units have been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2009 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a
reporting unit below its carrying value, management would perform an interim impairment assessment of Commercial Power s goodwill and it is possible that goodwill impairment charges could be recorded as a result of these assessments. At
December 31, 2008, the Commercial Power segment had goodwill of approximately $960 million.             Year Ended December 31, 2007 as compared to December 31, 2006        Operating Revenues.  The increase was primarily driven by:   

A $387 million increase related to the non-regulated generation assets of former Cinergy, including the impacts of purchase accounting, which reflects the first quarter 2007
operating revenues for which there was zero in the comparable period in the prior year as a result of the merger in April 2006;      

A $185 million increase in retail electric revenues due to higher retail pricing principally related to the time of collections on fuel and purchased power (FPP) rider and
increased retail demand resulting from favorable weather in 2007 compared to 2006; and      

A $134 million increase in revenues due to higher generation volumes and capacity revenues from the Midwest gas-fired assets resulting from favorable weather in 2007 compared
to 2006.         Partially offsetting these increases were:   

A $111 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $52 million in 2007
compared to gains of $59 million in 2006; and      
     Operating Expenses.  The increase was primarily driven by:   

A $327 million increase related to the non-regulated generation assets of former Cinergy, including the impacts of purchase accounting, which reflects the first quarter 2007
operating expenses for which there was zero in the comparable period in the prior year as a result of the merger with Cinergy in April 2006;      

A $116 million increase in fuel expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to increased generation volumes in 2007 compared to 2006; and

A $36 million increase in operating expenses primarily due to increased plant maintenance in 2007.         Partially offsetting these increases were:   

A $114 million decrease in net mark-to-market expenses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $65 million in 2007 compared to losses of
$49 million in 2006; and      
     Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net . Decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 is attributable to lower losses on emission allowance sales in 2007
due to lower sales activity in 2007 compared to 2006.       Other Income and Expenses, net . The decrease is driven by lower equity earnings of
unconsolidated affiliates.       EBIT.  The improvement is primarily attributable to higher retail margins resulting largely from favorable timing of
fuel and purchase power recoveries, increased retail demand as a result of favorable weather and improved results from the Midwest gas-fired assets as a result of higher generation volumes and increased capacity revenues. These favorable variances
were partially offset by higher expenses from increased plant maintenance in 2007.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             International Energy          
           Year Ended December 31,
2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007        Operating Revenues.  The increase was driven primarily by:   

A $60 million increase in Brazil due to higher sales prices, higher demand and favorable exchange rates;      

A $49 million increase in Guatemala and El Salvador due to favorable sales prices partially offset by lower dispatch; and      

A $15 million increase in Argentina due to favorable sales prices as a result of higher demand.          Operating Expenses.  The increase was driven primarily by:   

A $70 million increase in Guatemala and El Salvador primarily due to higher fuel prices;      

A $57 million increase in Peru primarily due to higher purchased power, fuel costs, and royalty fees due to unfavorable hydrology and higher oil reference pricing; and

A $15 million increase in Argentina due to higher gas and power marketing purchases and increased fuel prices.         Partially offsetting these increases was:   

A $24 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel consumption and maintenance costs as a result of lower thermal dispatch and the reversal of a bad debt allowance as a
result of collection of an arbitration award; and      

A $5 million decrease in Brazil due to a transmission credit adjustment and reversal of a bad debt allowance as a result of a customer settlement, partially offset by
unfavorable exchange rates.           Other Income and Expenses, net.  The increase was driven primarily by a $16 million increase
in equity earnings at NMC as a result of higher pricing and volumes for both methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) and approximately $9 million of increased equity earnings at Attiki due to a hedge termination.        EBIT.  The increase in EBIT was primarily due to higher average prices, increased demand, and favorable exchange rates in Brazil, higher MTBE and methanol
margins and sales volumes at NMC; partially offset by unfavorable hydrology, higher royalty fees and the lack of the 2007 transmission congestion in Peru, and unfavorable results in Guatemala, primarily due to higher fuel prices and maintenance
costs.             Matters Impacting Future International Energy Results  
     International Energy s current strategy is focused on selectively growing its Latin American power generation business while continuing to
maximize the returns and cash flow from its current portfolio. EBIT results for International Energy are sensitive to changes in hydrology, power supply, power demand, and fuel and commodity prices. Regulatory matters can also impact EBIT results,
as well as impacts from fluctuations in exchange rates, most notably the Brazilian Real.      Certain of International Energy s long-term sales
contracts and long-term debt in Brazil contain inflation adjustment clauses. While this is favorable to revenue in the long run, as International Energy s contract prices are adjusted, there is an unfavorable impact on interest expense
resulting from revaluation of International Energy s outstanding local currency debt.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             The results of International Energy s earnings from projects accounted for on the equity method are loosely correlated to the price of
crude oil and other commodities. As a result of the decline in oil and other commodity prices, International Energy anticipates that earnings from equity projects, which contributed approximately $127 million of EBIT in 2008, will be lower
in 2009 than in 2008.       International Energy evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment under the guidance of
SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Intangible Assets  . For further information on key assumptions that impact International Energy s goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment. As of
the date of the 2008 annual impairment analysis, the fair value of International Energy s reporting units exceeded their respective carrying value, thus no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. However, management is continuing to monitor
the impact of recent market and economic events, including the impacts of foreign exchange rates in all jurisdictions, as well as the impacts of commodity prices, such as crude oil, on the results of NMC, to determine if it is more likely than not
that the carrying value of International Energy s reporting units have been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2009 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying
value, management would perform an interim impairment assessment of International Energy s goodwill and it is possible that goodwill impairment charges could be recorded as a result of these assessments. At December 31, 2008, the
International Energy segment had goodwill of approximately $260 million.             Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to December 31, 2006        Operating Revenues.  The increase was driven primarily
by:   

An $81 million increase in Brazil due to higher sales prices and favorable exchange rates;      

A $37 million increase in Guatemala due to higher prices and volumes as a result of increased thermal dispatch; and      

A $27 million increase in Peru due to higher spot prices as a result of transmission line congestion.         Partially offsetting these increases were:   

An $18 million decrease in Ecuador due to decreased sales as a result of lower thermal dispatch; and      

A $5 million decrease in Argentina due to lower sales volumes resulting from unfavorable hydrology, partially offset by higher average sales prices.
         Operating Expenses.  The decrease was driven primarily by:   

A $100 million decrease due to a prior year reserve established as a result of a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation;      

A $43 million decrease in Mexico due primarily to a $33 million impairment charge on the notes receivable from the Campeche equity investment in 2006; and

An $11 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel used as a result of lower generation.         Partially offsetting these decreases were:   

A $50 million increase in Brazil primarily due to higher exchange rates and higher regulatory and purchased power costs;      

A $37 million increase in Guatemala due to increased fuel used as a result of higher dispatch and higher maintenance costs as a result of unplanned outages; and

An $8 million increase in Argentina due to higher maintenance costs.           Other Income and Expenses, net.  The increase was driven primarily by a $26 million increase in equity earnings at NMC as a result of higher methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) margins, as well as the absence
of a $17 million impairment of the Campeche equity investment recorded in 2006.        EBIT.  The increase in EBIT was primarily due to a prior
year reserve established as a result of a settlement made in conjunction with the Citrus litigation, a prior year impairment of the Campeche equity investment and note receivable reserve, favorable prices in Peru due to transmission line congestion,
favorable prices and net foreign exchange impacts offset by higher regulatory costs in Brazil and higher equity earnings at National Methanol, partially offset by higher maintenance costs and unfavorable hydrology in Argentina.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Other          
     Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent was a reportable business segment of Duke Energy.
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent is no longer considered an operating segment of Duke Energy as Duke Energy s chief operating decision maker no longer reviews Crescent s operating results in order to make resource
allocation decisions and evaluate its performance. Accordingly, the results of Crescent have been included in Other for all periods presented. As a result of Duke Energy recording its proportionate share of Crescent s impairment losses, the
carrying value of Duke Energy s investment in Crescent has been reduced to zero at December 31, 2008. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, in accordance with Accounting Principles Bulletin (APB) 18,   The Equity Method of
Accounting for Investments in Common Stock,   Duke Energy suspended applying the equity method of accounting to its investment in Crescent since its investment has been reduced to zero. Accordingly, Duke Energy will not record additional
losses related to its investment in Crescent. However, should Crescent begin reporting net income in future periods, Duke Energy may resume applying the equity method of accounting after its proportionate share of that net income equals the share of
net losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended.             Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007        Operating Revenues . The reduction was driven primarily
by higher premiums earned by Bison in 2007 related to the assumption of liabilities by Bison from other Duke Energy business units.         Operating Expenses . The reduction was primarily driven by the establishment of reserves related to liabilities assumed by Bison from other Duke Energy business units in 2007 with no comparable charges in 2008, a prior year
donation to the Duke Foundation, reduced benefit costs, and decreased severance costs. These favorable variances were partially offset by a prior year benefit related to contract settlement negotiations and unfavorable property loss experience at
Bison.         Other Income and Expenses, net.  The increase in net expense was primarily driven by approximately $230 million of losses at
Crescent in 2008 compared to earnings of approximately $38 million in 2007 due to Duke Energy recording its proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent and lower earnings as a result of the downturn in the real estate market,
unfavorable returns on investments related to executive life insurance and lower investment income at Bison, partially offset by prior year convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy with no
comparable charges in 2008.       EBIT.  The decrease was due to Duke Energy s proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent
and lower overall earnings at Crescent, a prior year benefit related to contract settlement negotiations, unfavorable investment returns and unfavorable property loss experience at Bison, partially offset by a prior year donation to Duke Foundation,
prior year convertible debt charges, decreased severance costs and reduced benefits costs.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Matters Impacting Future Other Results       Other s
future results could be impacted by continued volatility in the debt and equity markets and other economic conditions, which could result in the recording of other-than-temporary impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of investments in debt
and equity securities, including certain investments in auction rate debt securities, to their estimated fair value. Duke Energy analyzes all investments in debt and equity securities to determine whether a decline in fair value should be considered
other-than-temporary. Criteria used to evaluate whether an impairment is other-than-temporary includes, but is not limited to, the length of time over which the market value has been lower than the cost basis of the investment, the percentage
decline compared to the cost of the investment and management s intent and ability to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.       Duke Energy has guaranteed approximately $100 million of outstanding surety bonds and letters of credit related to projects at Crescent. This amount represents the
face value of the guarantees; however, Crescent has already completed a substantial portion of its obligations under these guarantees. As of December 31, 2008, it is reasonably possible that Duke Energy could have exposure of approximately $40
million under these guarantees should Crescent fail to perform under its obligations associated with these projects, which would become more likely should Crescent declare bankruptcy in the near future. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements,  Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Related Party Transactions,  for a discussion of impairment losses recorded by Crescent during 2008 and Crescent s significant debt obligations as of December 31, 2008.
             Year Ended December 31, 2007 as Compared to
December 31, 2006        Operating Revenues . The decrease was driven primarily by:   
    Partially offsetting this decrease was:   

A $15 million increase related to revenues earned for services performed for Spectra Energy, and      

A $14 million increase related to DETM, primarily driven by mark-to-market activity.          Operating Expenses . The decrease was driven primarily by:   

A $110 million decrease related to contract settlement negotiations. Duke Energy was party to an agreement with a third party service provider related to certain future
purchases. The agreement contained certain damage payment provisions if qualifying purchases were not initiated by September 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Duke Energy initiated early settlement discussions regarding this agreement and
recorded a reserve of approximately $65 million. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Duke Energy paid the third party service provider approximately $20 million, which directly reduced Duke Energy s future exposure under the
agreement, and further reduced the reserve by $45 million based upon qualifying purchase commitments that fulfilled Duke Energy s obligations under the agreement.      

A $74 million decrease in costs to achieve related to the Cinergy merger;      

A $50 million decrease at Bison due primarily to lower charges for mutual insurance exit obligations of approximately $76 million, partially offset by higher operating
expenses of approximately $26 million;      

A $42 million decrease in governance and other corporate costs, including prior year shared services cost allocations to Spectra Energy not classified as discontinued
operations; and      

A $22 million decrease in amortization costs related to Crescent capitalized interest.         Partially offsetting these decreases were:   

A $25 million increase due to a donation to the Duke Foundation, a non-profit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected
non-profits and government subdivisions; and      

A $12 million increase related to employee severance costs.           Gains on sales of investments in Commercial and Multi-family real estate.  The decrease was due to the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006.             Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net.  The decrease was driven primarily by a $246 million pre-tax gain
resulting from the sale of and effective 50% interest in Crescent.          
   59   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Other Income and Expenses, net.  The decrease was driven primarily by convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra
Energy, partially offset by a $9 million increase due to the deconsolidation of Crescent effective September 7, 2006 and an increase in investment returns related to executive life insurance of $8 million.       EBIT.  The decrease was primarily driven by a gain on the sale of ownership interest in Crescent in the third quarter 2006 and lower results due to the
downturn in the real estate market, an increase in captive insurance expenses, a donation to the Duke Foundation, convertible debt charges related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy and employee severance charges, partially offset by contract
settlement negotiations, lower charges for mutual insurance exit obligations, the reduction of costs to achieve related to the Cinergy merger, lower governance and other corporate costs and a decrease in amortization costs related to Crescent
capitalized interest.             CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES             The application of accounting policies and estimates is an important process that
continues to evolve as Duke Energy s operations change and accounting guidance evolves. Duke Energy has identified a number of critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant estimates and judgments.   
  Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other various assumptions that they believe are reasonable at the time of
application. The estimates and judgments may change as time passes and more information about Duke Energy s environment becomes available. If estimates and judgments are different than the actual amounts recorded, adjustments are made in
subsequent periods to take into consideration the new information. Duke Energy discusses its critical accounting policies and estimates and other significant accounting policies with senior members of management and the audit committee, as
appropriate. Duke Energy s critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed below.             Regulatory Accounting       Duke Energy accounts for certain of its regulated operations (primarily U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and
certain portions of Commercial Power) under the provisions of SFAS No. 71,   Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation .  As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from the regulated
ratemaking process that would not be recorded under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of
future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that either are not likely to or have yet to be incurred. Management continually assesses
whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation
legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to
change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the
depreciation of property, plant and equipment, nuclear decommissioning costs and amortization of regulatory assets. Total regulatory assets were $4,077 million as of December 31, 2008 and $2,645 million as of December 31, 2007. Total
regulatory liabilities were $2,678 as of December 31, 2008 and $2,674 million as of December 31, 2007. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters.       In order to apply the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 71 and record regulatory assets and liabilities, the scope criteria in SFAS No. 71 must be met.
Management makes significant judgments in determining whether the scope criteria of SFAS No. 71 are met for its operations, including determining whether revenue rates for services provided to customers are subject to approval by an
independent, third-party regulator, whether the regulated rates are designed to recover specific costs of providing the regulated service, and a determination of whether, in view of the demand for the regulated services and the level of competition,
it is reasonable to assume that rates set at levels that will recover the operations  costs can be charged to and collected from customers. This final criterion requires consideration of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition,
direct and indirect, during the recovery period for any capitalized costs. If facts and circumstances change so that a portion of Duke Energy s regulated operations meet all of the scope criteria set forth in SFAS No. 71 when such criteria
had not been previously met, SFAS No. 71 would be reapplied to all or a separable portion of the operations. Such reapplication includes adjusting the balance sheet for amounts that meet the definition of a regulatory asset or regulatory
liability of SFAS 71.      Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants in the Midwestern United States. Commercial Power s generation
asset fleet consists of Duke Energy Ohio s generation in Ohio, primarily coal-fired assets, that are dedicated to serve Ohio native load  
       
   60   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            
 customers (native load), and five Midwestern gas-fired non-regulated generation assets that are not dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers (non-native). The
non-native generation operations are not accounted for under SFAS No. 71 as these operations do not meet the scope criteria. Most of the generation asset native load output in Ohio was contracted through the RSP through December 31, 2008.
As discussed further in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, specifically Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  and Note 4,  Regulatory Matters , beginning on December 17, 2008, Commercial Power
reapplied the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of its native load operations due to the passing of SB 221 and the approval of the ESP. However, other portions of Commercial Power s native load operations continue to not meet
the scope criteria of SFAS No. 71, as certain costs of the native load operations do not result in a rate structure designed to recover the specific costs of that portion of the operations. Despite certain portions of the Ohio native load
operations not being subject to the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 71, all of Commercial Power s Ohio native load operations  rates are such to approval by the PUCO, and thus these operations are referred to here-in as Commercial
Power s regulated operations. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers continue to have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there
is a risk that some or all of Commercial Power s regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. Duke Energy will continue to monitor the amount of native load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when
assessing the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its native load generation operations.       No other operations within
Commercial Power, and no operations within the International Energy business segment, meet the criteria for accounting under SFAS No. 71.      Substantially all of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas s operations meet the scope criteria in SFAS No. 71 and thus its costs of business and related revenues can result in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities, as
described above.             Goodwill Impairment Assessments       At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy had goodwill balances of $4,720 million and $4,642 million, respectively. Duke Energy evaluates the impairment of
goodwill under SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   (SFAS No. 142). The majority of Duke Energy s goodwill at December 31, 2008 and 2007 relates to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006, whose
assets are primarily included in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. The remainder relates to International Energy s Latin American operations. As of the acquisition date, Duke Energy allocates goodwill to a
reporting unit, which Duke Energy defines as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. As required by SFAS No. 142, Duke Energy performs an annual goodwill impairment test and updates the test between annual tests if events
or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Duke Energy performs its annual impairment assessment as of August 31 each year. Duke Energy primarily uses a discounted
cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of its reporting units. Key assumptions used in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and estimated run rates of operation,
maintenance, and general and administrative costs. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory stability and ability to renew contracts, as well as other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts. Duke
Energy did not record any impairment on its goodwill as a result of the 2008, 2007 or 2006 impairment tests required by SFAS No. 142.      One of the
most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its
reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the cost of equity and pre-tax cost of debt. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the
nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. In determining the appropriate WACC for each of Duke Energy s reporting units, Duke Energy considered current and historical market
data for risk free interest rates over a 10-year period and applied an appropriate equity risk premium for the equity component of the WACC, and utilized credit ratings and appropriate risk premiums for the debt component. Duke Energy also
considered implied WACC s for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2008 for each of Duke Energy s domestic reporting units
were commensurate with the risks associated with each reporting unit and ranged from 6.75% to 8%. For Duke Energy s international operations, a base discount rate of 8% was used, with specific adders used for each separate jurisdiction in which
International Energy operates to reflect the differing risk profiles of the jurisdictions. This resulted in discount rates for the August 31, 2008 goodwill impairment test for the international operations ranging from 8.6% to 12.2%.   
  Additionally, estimated future cash flows are based on Duke Energy s internal business plan. Duke Energy s internal business plan reflects
management s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third party sources, as well as projected commodity pricing data. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events
in the  
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

   PART II           
 future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital
investments, continued recovery of cost of service and the renewal of certain contracts. Management also makes assumptions regarding the run rate of operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the
aforementioned events. Should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, revisions to current cash flow assumptions could cause the fair value of Duke Energy s reporting units to be
significantly different in future periods.      These underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time; subsequent changes,
particularly changes in the discount rates or growth rates inherent in management s estimates of future cash flows, could result in a future impairment charge to goodwill. Management continues to remain alert for any indicators that the fair
value of a reporting unit could be below book value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.      The impairment analysis as of
August 31, 2008 did not indicate that the fair value of any of Duke Energy s reporting units were less than its book value. As an overall test of the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of the reporting units, Duke Energy
reconciled the combined fair value estimates of its reporting units to its market capitalization as of August 31, 2008. The reconciliation confirmed that the fair values were reasonably representative of market views when applying a reasonable
control premium to the market capitalization. Additionally, Duke Energy would perform an interim impairment assessment should any events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below
its carrying value. Subsequent to August 31, 2008, management did not identify any indicators of potential impairment that required an update to the annual impairment assessment. This reflects the fact that the majority of Duke Energy s
business is in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital.
Accordingly, Duke Energy operates to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, management will continue to monitor changes in the business, as well as
overall market conditions and economic factors that could require additional impairment assessments.               Revenue Recognition       Revenues on sales of electricity and gas, primarily at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, are
recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Unbilled revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue/kilowatt-hour or per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) for all customer classes to the number of estimated
kilowatt-hours or Mcf s delivered but not billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly period to period as a result of factors including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns and customer mix. Unbilled revenues, which
are recorded as Receivables in Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $360 million and $380 million, respectively.             Accounting for Loss Contingencies       Duke
Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, management makes judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and
records a loss contingency based on the accounting guidance set forth in SFAS No. 5,   Accounting for Contingencies   (SFAS No. 5), which requires a loss contingency to be recognized when it is determined that it is probable
that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management regularly reviews current information available to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Estimating
probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and other regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved
over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash
flows of Duke Energy.      Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement relating to damages for bodily
injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.      Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves related to Duke Energy Carolinas in the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled approximately $1,031 million and $1,082
million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are classified in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other within Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy s best
estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2027. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2027. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a
longer-term fore- 
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

   PART II           
 cast, management does not believe that they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2027 related to such potential claims.
Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A
significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at
trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors
outside our control, management believes that it is possible Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves.      Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas  asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas 
cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy s third party insurance carrier. The insurance
policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,099 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of approximately $1,032 million and $1,040 million related to
this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal
sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.      For further information, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies.              Accounting for Income Taxes       Duke Energy accounts for income taxes under SFAS No. 109,   Accounting for Income Taxes ,  (SFAS No. 109) and FIN 48. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the book basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. If future utilization of deferred tax assets is uncertain, Duke Energy may record a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets.
     Prior to the adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007, Duke Energy recorded tax contingencies based on the accounting guidance set forth in SFAS
No. 5, which requires a contingency to be both probable and reasonably estimable for a loss to be recorded. Upon adoption of FIN 48, Duke Energy began recording unrecognized tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax
returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing
authorities. In accordance with FIN 48, Duke Energy records the largest amount of the unrecognized tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits
and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant management judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold
has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management reevaluates tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes
available.      Significant management judgment is required in determining Duke Energy s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and
liabilities and the valuation recorded against Duke Energy s net deferred tax assets, if any. In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable
income. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, Duke Energy s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as
results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Although management believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.      For further information, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Income Taxes.              Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits       Duke Energy accounts for its defined benefit pension plans using SFAS No. 87,   Employers  Accounting for Pensions ,  (SFAS No. 87)
and SFAS No. 158,   Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans ,  (SFAS No. 158). Under SFAS No. 87, pension income/expense is recognized on an accrual basis over
employees  approximate service periods. Other post-retirement benefits are accounted for using SFAS No. 106,   Employers   Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,   (SFAS No. 106).   
     
   63   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            In accordance with the measurement date provision of SFAS No. 158, in 2007, Duke Energy changed its measurement date from September 30 to
December 31.      Funding requirements for defined benefit (DB) plans are determined by government regulations, not SFAS No. 87. Duke Energy
made voluntary contributions to its DB retirement plans of zero in 2008, $350 million in 2007 and $124 million in 2006. In the first quarter of 2009, Duke Energy made a voluntary contribution to its DB retirement plans in 2009 of $500 million.
Additionally, during 2007, Duke Energy contributed approximately $62 million to its other post-retirement benefit plans.      The calculation of
pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and Duke Energy s pension and other post-retirement liabilities require the use of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and reported liability amounts,
and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes that the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount
rate. Additionally, medical and prescription drug cost trend rate assumptions are critical to Duke Energy s estimates of other post-retirement benefits. The prescription drug trend rate assumption resulted from the effect of the Medicare
Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (Modernization Act).             Duke Energy Plans       Duke Energy and its subsidiaries (including legacy Cinergy businesses) maintain non-contributory defined benefit
retirement plans (Plans). The Plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which may vary
with age and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain legacy Cinergy employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under a final average earnings formula, a plan participant
accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a
percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.      Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries also provide some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory
basis. Employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.       Duke
Energy recognized pre-tax qualified pension cost of $46 million in 2008. In 2009, Duke Energy s qualified pension cost is expected to be approximately $40 million lower than in 2008 as a result of the aforementioned approximate $500 million
2009 DB retirement plan contribution. Non-qualified pension cost and other post-retirement benefits cost are expected to remain approximately the same as 2008.       For both pension and other post-retirement plans, Duke Energy assumed that its plan s assets would generate a long-term rate of return of 8.5% as of December 31, 2008. The assets for Duke Energy s pension and
other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master trust. The investment objective of the master trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of
benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation target was set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile with respect to the trust. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities,
and real estate are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset
allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to its targeted allocation when considered appropriate.      The expected long-term rate of return
of 8.5% for the plan s assets was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted average returns
expected by asset classes were 3.1% for U.S. equities, 2.8% for Non U.S. equities, 2.5% for fixed income securities, and 0.3% for real estate.      If
Duke Energy had used a long-term rate of 8.25% in 2008, pre-tax pension expense would have been higher by approximately $10 million and pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been higher by less than $1 million. If Duke Energy had used a
long-term rate of 8.75% pre-tax pension expense would have been lower by approximately $10 million and pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been lower by less than $1 million. Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other
post-retirement obligations using a rate of 6.50% as of December 31, 2008.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            Duke Energy s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a medical care trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in medical health care
costs. Duke Energy s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a prescription drug trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug health care costs. As of December 31, 2008, the medical care trend rates
were 8.50%, which grades to 5.00% by 2013. As of December 31, 2008, the prescription drug trend rate was 11.00%, which grades to 5.00% by 2022. If Duke Energy had used health care trend rates one percentage point higher, pre-tax other
post-retirement expense would have been higher by $3 million. If Duke Energy had used health care trend rates one percentage point lower, pre-tax other post-retirement expense would have been lower by $2 million.      Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy s pension and post-retirement
plans will impact Duke Energy s future pension expense and liabilities. Management cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future.      For further information, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Employee Benefit Plans.              LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES        Known Trends and Uncertainties       At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $1.0 billion, partially offset by approximately $543
million of short-term notes payable and commercial paper, which includes approximately $279 million of borrowings by Duke Energy Ohio under the master credit facility. To fund its liquidity and capital requirements during 2009, Duke Energy will rely
primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings, equity issuances to fund the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) and other internal plans and its existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. The relatively stable operating cash
flows of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas business segment compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy s cash flows from operations and it is anticipated that it will continue to do so for the next several years. A material adverse change
in operations, or in available financing, could impact Duke Energy s ability to fund its current liquidity and capital resource requirements.      Ultimate cash flows from operations are subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends, and market volatility (see Item 1A.  Risk Factors  for details).      Duke Energy projects 2009 capital and investment expenditures of approximately $4.8 billion, primarily consisting of:   

$3.8 billion at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas      

$0.6 billion at Commercial Power      

$0.3 billion at International and      
    Duke Energy continues to focus on
reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors with an overall focus on positive net cash generation. Based on this goal, approximately 75 percent of total projected 2009
capital expenditures are allocated to the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. Total U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas projected 2009 capital and investment expenditures include approximately $1.9 billion for system growth, $1.5 billion for
maintenance and upgrades of existing plants and infrastructure to serve load growth, approximately $0.2 billion of environmental expenditures, and approximately $0.2 billion of nuclear fuel.      With respect to the 2009 capital expenditure plan, Duke Energy has flexibility within its $4.8 billion budget to defer or eliminate certain spending should the
broad economy continue to deteriorate. Of the $4.8 billion budget, approximately $2.6 billion relates to projects for which management has committed capital, including, but not limited to, the continued construction of Cliffside Unit 6 and the
Edwardsport IGCC plant, and management intends to spend those capital dollars in 2009 irrespective of broader economic factors. Approximately $2.1 billion of projected 2009 capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system
maintenance, customer connections, and corporate expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions
and customer growth, thus management has more flexibility in terms of when these dollars are actually spent. The remaining planned 2009 capital expenditures of approximately $0.1 billion are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth
opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities to meet return expectations along with assurance of constructive regulatory treatment in the regulated businesses.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            As a result of Duke Energy s significant commitment to modernize its generating fleet through the construction of new units, as well as its focus on increasing
its renewable energy portfolio, the ability to cost effectively manage the construction phase of current and future projects is critical to ensuring full and timely recovery of costs of construction. Should Duke Energy encounter significant cost
overruns above amounts approved by the various state commissions, and those amounts are disallowed for recovery in rates, future cash flows could be adversely impacted.      Duke Energy anticipates its debt to total capitalization ratio to remain at approximately 41% in 2009. In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of senior notes. Proceeds from the issuance were used to
redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. In 2009, Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing approximately $1.4 billion of additional debt at the operating subsidiary level, primarily for the purpose of funding capital
expenditures. Due to the flexibility in the timing of projected 2009 capital expenditures, the timing and amount of debt issuances throughout 2009 could be influenced by changes in the timing of capital spending. Additionally, Duke Energy plans to
generate approximately $350 million of cash from the issuance of common stock under its DRIP and other internal plans. In February 2009, Duke Energy made an approximate $500 million contribution to its pension plan.      At this time, Duke Energy does not believe the recent market developments significantly impact its ability to obtain financing and fully expects to have access to
liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates and terms. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate bank commitments of approximately
$3.14 billion. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of approximately $1.2 billion under this facility. Management currently believes that amounts available under its revolving credit facility are accessible should
there be a need to generate additional short-term financing in 2009, such as the issuance of commercial paper; however, due to the sustained downturn in overall economic conditions, specifically in the financial services sector, there is no
guarantee that commitments provided by financial institutions under the revolving credit facility will be available if needed. Management expects that cash flows from operations, issuances of debt and cash generated from the issuance of common stock
under the DRIP and other internal plans will be sufficient to cover the 2009 funding requirements related to capital and investments expenditures, dividend payments and the contribution to the pension plan.      Duke Energy monitors compliance with all debt covenants and restrictions and does not currently believe it will be in violation or breach of its significant debt
covenants during 2009. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view. If and when management had a belief that such potential breach could exist, appropriate action would be taken to mitigate any such issue. Duke Energy also maintains
an active dialogue with the credit rating agencies.             Operating Cash Flows
      Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,328 million in 2008, compared to $3,208 million in 2007, an increase in cash provided of $120
million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:   

An approximate $412 million decrease in contributions to Duke Energy s pension plan and other post retirement benefit plans, partially offset by
     
    Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,208 million in 2007, compared to $3,748 million in 2006, a decrease in cash provided of $540 million. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily
by:   

The deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, and      

A $250 million increase in contributions to Duke Energy s pension plan and other post retirement benefit plans in 2007, partially offset by      

66   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Investing Cash Flows       Net cash used in investing activities was $4,611
million in 2008, $2,151 million in 2007, and $1,328 million in 2006.      The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital and
investment expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.             Capital, Investment and Acquisition Expenditures by Business Segment          

(a)  
  Amounts include capital expenditures associated with North Carolina clean air legislation of $355 million in 2008, $418 million in 2007 and $403 million in 2006, which are included in Capital
Expenditures within Cash Flows from Investing Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.     

(b)  
  On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses. The natural gas businesses spun off primarily consisted of Duke Energy s Natural Gas
Transmission business segment and Duke Energy s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream, which was part of the Field Services business segment.     

(c)  
  Other includes Crescent and only reflects capital expenditure amounts in 2006 for periods prior to deconsolidation on September 7, 2006. Additionally, amounts include capital
expenditures associated with residential real estate of $322 million for the period from January 1, 2006 through the date of deconsolidation, which is included in Capital Expenditures for Residential Real Estate within Cash Flows from Operating
Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.        The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2008 as
compared to 2007 is primarily due to the following:   

An approximate $1,640 million increase in capital and investment expenditures, due primarily to capital expansion projects, the acquisition of Catamount Energy Corporation
(approximately $245 million) and the purchase of a portion of Saluda River Electric Cooperative, Inc. s ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station in 2008 (approximately $150 million),      

An approximate $875 million decrease in proceeds from available-for-sale securities, net of purchases, due to net proceeds of approximately $100 million in 2008 compared to
net proceeds of approximately $975 million in 2007, primarily as a result of investing excess cash obtained from the issuances of debt during 2008 versus utilizing short-term investments as a source of cash in 2007, and      

An approximate $60 million decrease in proceeds from asset sales.                These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:   

An approximate $100 million increase in proceeds from the sale of emission allowances, net of purchases.         The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2007 as compared to 2006 is primarily due to the following:   

Approximately $700 million in proceeds received from the sale of Cinergy commercial marketing and trading operations in 2006,      

Approximately $380 million in proceeds received from the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent in 2006,      

An approximate $250 million decrease in proceeds from the sales of commercial and multi-family real estate due to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, and
     
    These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:      An approximate $1,800 million increase in proceeds from available-for sale securities, net of purchases, and      An approximate $470 million
decrease in capital and investment expenditures, in part reflecting the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity       Duke Energy s consolidated
capital structure as of December 31, 2008, including short-term debt, was 41% debt and 59% common equity. The fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.4 times for 2008, 3.7 times for 2007, and 2.6 times for 2006, which
includes a pre-tax gain of approximately $250 million on the sale of an effective 50% interest in Crescent.      Net cash provided by financing activities
was $1,591 million in 2008 compared to $1,327 million of cash used in 2007, an increase in cash provided of $2,918 million. The change was due primarily to the following:   

An approximate $3,090 million increase in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions, as a result of net issuances of approximately $2,665 million during
2008 as compared to net repayments of approximately $425 million during 2007,      

An approximate $400 million increase due to the distribution of cash in 2007 related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy,      

An approximate $110 million increase due to payments for the redemption of convertible notes in 2007, and      

An approximate $80 million increase in proceeds from the issuances of common stock.         These increases were partially offset by:   

An approximate $690 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of notes payable and commercial paper, net of repayments, and      
          Net cash used in financing activities was $1,327 million in 2007 compared to $1,961 million in 2006, a decrease of $634 million. The change was due primarily to the
following:   

An approximate $500 million decrease in cash used due to the repurchase of common shares in 2006,            

An approximate $400 million decrease in dividends paid as a result of the spin-off of Spectra Energy, and      

An approximate $1,030 million increase in net proceeds in 2007 from the issuance of notes payable and commercial paper.         These increases were partially offset by:   

An approximate $700 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions,      

An approximate $400 million distribution of cash in 2007 as a result of the spin-off of Spectra Energy,      

An approximate $110 million decrease in cash due to the repurchase of senior convertible notes in 2007, and      

An approximate $100 million decrease in proceeds from the Duke Energy Income Fund.          Financing Activities Subsequent to December 31, 2008.  In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of 6.30% senior unsecured notes
due February 1, 2014. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.      In January
2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $271 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $271 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by direct-pay letters of credit, of which $144 million had initial
rates of 0.7% reset on a weekly basis with $44 million maturing May 2035, $23 million maturing March 2031 and $77 million maturing December 2039, and $127 million had initial rates of 0.50% reset on a daily basis with $77 million maturing December
2039 and $50 million maturing October 2040.       Significant Financing Activities Year Ended 2008.  In January 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas
issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $400 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.25% and matures January 15, 2018 and $500 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and matures January 15,
2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate
swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of approximately $18 million. This amount was recorded as a
component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the debt.      In April 2008,
Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $300 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.10% and matures April 15, 2018 and $600 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.05% and matures
April 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the
market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of  
       
   68   

Table of Contents  

   PART II           
 approximately $23 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of interest expense
over the life of the debt.      In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas refunded $100 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $100
million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due November 1, 2040, had an initial interest rate of 2.15% which is reset on a weekly basis.
     In June 2008, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior notes, of which $250 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.65% and
matures June 15, 2013 and $250 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.25% and matures June 15, 2018. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy s nonregulated
businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.      In August 2008, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of first mortgage
bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.35% and matures August 15, 2038. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes and to redeem
first mortgage bonds maturing in September 2008.      In October 2008, International Energy issued approximately $153 million of debt in Brazil, of which
approximately $112 million matures in September 2013 and carries a variable interest rate equal to the Brazil interbank rate plus 2.15%, and approximately $41 million matures in September 2015 and carries a fixed interest rate of 11.6% plus an
annual inflation index. International Energy used these proceeds to pre-pay existing long-term debt balances.      In November 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas
issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $500 million carries a fixed interest rate of 7.00% and matures November 15, 2018 and $400 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.75% and matures November 15,
2013. The net proceeds from issuance were used to repay amounts borrowed under the master credit facility, to repay senior notes due January 1, 2009, to replenish cash used to repay senior notes at their scheduled maturity in October 2008 and
for general corporate purposes.      In December 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky refunded $50 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of
$50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due August 1, 2027, had an initial interest rate of 0.65% which is reset on a weekly basis.
      Significant Financing Activities Year Ended 2007.  On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of the natural gas
businesses. In connection with this transaction, Duke Energy distributed all the shares of Spectra Energy to Duke Energy shareholders. The distribution ratio approved by Duke Energy s Board of Directors was one-half share of Spectra Energy
stock for each share of Duke Energy stock. Additionally, dividends paid on Duke Energy common stock during 2007 of approximately $1,089 million were less than the 2006 dividends paid of approximately $1,488 million as dividends subsequent to the
spin-off were split proportionately between Duke Energy and Spectra Energy such that the sum of the dividends of the two stand-alone companies approximated the former total dividend of Duke Energy.      On May 15, 2007, substantially all of the holders of the Duke Energy convertible senior notes required Duke Energy to repurchase the balance then outstanding
at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. In May 2007, Duke Energy repurchased approximately $110 million of the convertible senior notes.      In June 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $500 million principal amount of 6.10% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2037. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper that was issued to repay
the outstanding $249 million 6.6% Insured Quarterly Senior Notes due 2022 on April 30, 2007, and approximately $110 million of convertible debt discussed above. The remainder was used for general corporate purposes.      In November 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $100 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject
to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2040. The initial interest rate was set at 3.65%. The bonds were issued through the North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital
expenditures at the Belews Creek and Allen Steam Stations.      In December 2007, Duke Energy Ohio issued $140 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds.
The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2041. The initial interest rate was set at 4.85%. The bonds were issued through the Ohio Air Quality Development
Authority to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Conesville, Stuart and Killen Generation Stations in Ohio.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Significant Financing Activities Year Ended 2006.  During the year ended December 31, 2006, Duke Energy increased the portion of outstanding
commercial paper and pollution control bond balances classified as long-term from $472 million to $929 million. This non-current classification is due to the existence of long-term credit facilities which back-stop these balances along with Duke
Energy s intent to refinance such balances on a long-term basis.      During 2006, Duke Energy repurchased approximately 17.5 million shares of
its common stock for approximately $500 million and paid dividends of approximately $1,488 million. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately $632 million of convertible senior notes were converted into approximately
27 million shares of Duke Energy Common Stock.      In November 2006, Union Gas Limited (Union Gas) issued 4.85% fixed-rate debenture bonds
denominated in 125 million Canadian dollars (approximately $108 million U.S. dollar equivalents as of the closing date) due in 2022. This debt was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.      In October 2006, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $150 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as variable-rate demand bonds, subject to
weekly remarketing and bear a final maturity of 2031. The initial interest rate was set at 3.72%. The bonds are supported by an irrevocable 3-year direct-pay letter of credit and were issued through the North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance
Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Marshall and Belews Creek Steam Stations.       In September 2006, prior to
the completion of the partial sale of Crescent to the MS Members as discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets,  Crescent issued approximately $1.23
billion principal amount of debt. The net proceeds from the debt issuance of approximately $1.21 billion were recorded as a Financing Activity on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As a result of Duke Energy s deconsolidation of
Crescent effective September 7, 2006, Crescent s outstanding debt balance of $1,298 million was removed from Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets.       In September 2006, Union Gas entered into a fixed-rate financing agreement denominated in 165 million Canadian dollars (approximately $148 million in U.S. dollar equivalents as of the issuance date) due in 2036 with an
interest rate of 5.46%. This debt was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.      In September 2006, the Income Fund sold
approximately 9 million previously unissued Trust Units at a price of 12.15 Canadian dollars per Trust Unit for total proceeds of 104 million Canadian dollars, net of commissions and expenses of other expenses of issuance. The sale of
approximately 9 million Trust Units reduced Duke Energy s ownership interest in the Income Fund to approximately 46% at December 31, 2006. The Income Fund was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007.
     In August 2006, Duke Energy Kentucky issued approximately $77 million principal amount of floating rate tax-exempt notes due August 1, 2027.
Proceeds from the issuance were used to refund a like amount of debt on September 1, 2006 then outstanding at Duke Energy Ohio. Approximately $27 million of the floating rate debt was swapped to a fixed rate concurrent with closing.   
  In June 2006, Duke Energy Indiana issued $325 million principal amount of 6.05% senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2016. Proceeds from the issuance were
used to repay $325 million of 6.65% First Mortgage Bonds that matured on June 15, 2006.       Available Credit Facilities and Restrictive Debt
Covenants.  In June 2007, Duke Energy closed the syndication of an amended and restated credit facility, which replaced existing credit facilities, with a 5-year, $2.65 billion master credit facility. Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke
Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky all have borrowing capacity under the terms of the master credit facility.      In March 2008,
Duke Energy entered into an amendment to its $2.65 billion master credit facility whereby the borrowing capacity was increased by $550 million to $3.2 billion. In October 2008, Duke Energy terminated the participation of one of the financial
institutions supplying approximately $63 million of credit commitment under its master credit facility. The total credit facility capacity under the master credit facility subsequent to this termination is approximately $3.14 billion. Duke Energy
has the unilateral ability under the master credit facility to increase or decrease the borrowing sublimits of each borrower, subject to maximum cap limitations, at any time. The amount available under the master credit facility has been reduced by
draw downs of cash and the use of the master credit facility to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, letters of credit and pollution control bonds. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had available capacity of approximately $1.2 billion
under the master credit facility. For further information on Duke Energy s credit facilities as of December 31, 2008, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Debt and Credit Facilities.          
   70   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             In September 2008, Duke Energy and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky
(collectively referred to as the borrowers) borrowed a total of approximately $1 billion under Duke Energy s master credit facility. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas used the proceeds from a debt issuance to repay in full
the approximately $260 million borrowed under the master credit facility. At December 31, 2008, outstanding borrowings of approximately $750 million under Duke Energy s master credit facility were as follows:          
     The loans under the master credit facility are revolving credit loans that currently bear interest at
one-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable spread ranging from 19 to 24 basis points. The loan for Duke Energy has a stated maturity of June 2012, while the loans for all of the other borrowers have stated maturities of
September 2009; however, the borrowers have the ability under the master credit facility to renew the loans due in September 2009 up through the date the master credit facility matures in June 2012. Except for Duke Energy Ohio, all of the borrowers
have the intent and ability to refinance these obligations on a long-term basis, either through renewal of the terms of the loan through the master credit facility, which has non-cancelable terms in excess of one-year, or through issuance of
long-term debt to replace the amounts drawn under the master credit facility. Accordingly, borrowings of $471 million are reflected as Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008. As Duke Energy Ohio does not have the
intent to refinance its borrowings on a long-term basis, the $279 million outstanding at December 31, 2008 is reflected in Notes Payable and Commercial Paper within current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.       In September 2008, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $330 million three-year letter of credit agreement with a syndicate of
banks, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to $279 million and $51 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable rate demand bonds issued or to be
issued on behalf of either Duke Energy Indiana or Duke Energy Kentucky. This credit facility, which is not part of Duke Energy s master credit facility, may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued
by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.      Duke Energy s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure
to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its significant debt
agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of
the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.       Credit Ratings.  Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries each hold credit
ratings by S P and Moody s Investors Service (Moody s).      In September 2008, S P revised the outlook on Duke Energy and its rated
subsidiaries from stable to positive and affirmed the credit ratings of Duke Energy and its rated subsidiaries.      In January 2008, Moody s changed
the rating outlook on Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Cinergy, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky to stable from positive, while affirming the existing ratings in the below table of each of these entities. In January 2009, Moody s
changed the rating on Duke Energy Ohio to positive from stable. The outlooks for all other rated entities remain as stable.      Duke Energy s
corporate credit rating and issuer credit rating from S P and Moody s, respectively, as of February 1, 2009 is A- and Baa2, respectively. The following table summarizes the February 1, 2009 unsecured credit ratings from the rating
agencies retained by Duke Energy and its principal funding subsidiaries.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Senior Unsecured Credit Ratings Summary as of February 1, 2009          

Standard and Poor s   
      
   Moody s Investors Service    
 
    Duke Energy Corporation   
      
  BBB+  
      
  Baa2   
 
    Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC   
      
  A-  
      
  A3   
 
    Cinergy Corp.   
      
  BBB+  
      
  Baa2   
 
    Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.   
      
  A-  
      
  Baa1   
 
    Duke Energy Indiana, Inc.   
      
  A-  
      
  Baa1   
 
    Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc.   
      
  A-  
      
  Baa1   
    Duke Energy s credit ratings are dependent on, among other factors, the ability to generate sufficient
cash to fund capital and investment expenditures and pay dividends on its common stock, while maintaining the strength of its current balance sheet. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, Duke Energy is unable to maintain its current
balance sheet strength, or if its earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, Duke Energy s credit ratings could be negatively impacted.       Credit-Related Clauses . Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the credit ratings at Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at Standard   Poor s (S P) or Moody s Investors Service
(Moody s). As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had approximately $8 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2012 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas  senior unsecured debt ratings fall
below BBB- at S P or Baa3 at Moody s, and $19 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas  senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S P or
Baa2 at Moody s.       Other Financing Matters.  In October 2007, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC. Under
this Form S-3, which is uncapped, Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The
registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.      Duke Energy has paid quarterly cash dividends for 83 consecutive
years and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to
the discretion of the Board of Directors. It is currently anticipated that dividends per share will increase $0.01 per share beginning in the third quarter of 2009.       Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common
stock to fulfill obligations under its DRIP and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing up to an aggregate of approximately $600 million of common stock associated with these programs. Approximately
$100 million of common stock was issued during the fourth quarter of 2008 associated with these plans. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to the DRIP and other employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock
options, were approximately $133 million in 2008, $50 million in 2007 and approximately $127 million in 2006.        Dividend and Other Funding
Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries    .   As discussed in Note 4, to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Regulatory Matters , Duke Energy s wholly-owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on
the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy via dividend, advance or loan as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy
subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2008, the
amount of restricted net assets of wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is approximately $10.7 billion. However, Duke Energy does not have any legal or other
restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated Retained Earnings account. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not
believe these restrictions will have any significant impact on Duke Energy s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.          
   72   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       Duke Energy and certain of its
subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include financial and performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, guarantees of
debt, surety bonds and indemnifications. In contemplation of the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007, certain guarantees that had been issued by Spectra Energy Capital were transferred to Duke Energy prior to the
consummation of the spin-off. This resulted in Duke Energy recording an immaterial liability for certain guarantees that were previously grandfathered under the provisions of FIN No. 45,   Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others ,  and, therefore, had not been recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Guarantees issued by Spectra Energy Capital or its subsidiaries on or prior to
December 31, 2006 remained with Spectra Energy Capital subsequent to the spin-off, except for certain guarantees that are in the process of being assigned to Duke Energy. During this assignment period, Duke Energy has indemnified Spectra Energy
Capital against any losses incurred under these guarantee obligations. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Guarantees and Indemnifications,  for further details of the guarantee arrangements.      Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly
owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or
on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital through the aforementioned indemnification agreements, having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of
certain future events.       Due to the continued downturn in the overall economic environment, Duke Energy performed an assessment of its guarantee
obligations as of December 31, 2008 to determine whether any SFAS No. 5 liabilities have been triggered as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees. Based on the
results of this analysis, as of December 31, 2008 management determined, with the exception of some insignificant amounts, that it is not probable that Duke Energy will have to perform under any guarantee obligations. However, management
will continue to monitor the financial condition of the third parties or non-wholly owned entities for whom Duke Energy has issued guarantees on behalf of, including certain obligations related to Crescent, to determine whether performance under
these guarantees becomes probable in the future. As of December 31, 2008, it is reasonably possible that Duke Energy could have exposure of approximately $40 million under these guarantees should Crescent fail to perform under its obligations
associated with these projects, which would become more likely should Crescent declare bankruptcy in the near future. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Related Party
Transactions,  for a discussion of impairment losses recorded by Crescent during 2008 and Crescent s significant debt obligations as of December 31, 2008.       Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated
results of operations, cash flows or financial position.      Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky have an agreement to sell
certain of their accounts receivable and related collections to Cinergy Receivables Company LLC (Cinergy Receivables), which purchases, on a revolving basis, nearly all of the retail accounts receivable and related collections of Duke Energy Ohio,
Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. Cinergy Receivables is not consolidated by Duke Energy since it meets the requirements to be accounted for as a qualifying special purpose entity (SPE). Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke
Energy Kentucky each retain an interest in the receivables transferred to Cinergy Receivables. The transfers of receivables are accounted for as sales, pursuant to SFAS No. 140,   Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.   For a more detailed discussion of the sale of certain accounts receivable, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Variable Interest Entities.       Duke Energy also holds interests in variable interest entities (VIEs), consolidated and unconsolidated, as defined by FIN No. 46R,   Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities .  For further information, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Variable Interest Entities .      Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above and normal operating lease arrangements, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information on these
commitments, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies.          
   73   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Contractual Obligations       Duke Energy enters into contracts that require
payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy s contractual cash obligations for each of the periods presented. It is expected that the
majority of current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets will be paid in cash in 2009.             Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2008          

(a)  
  See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Debt and Credit Facilities . Amount includes interest payments over life of debt or capital lease. Payment amounts exclude
$750 million of debt issued by Duke Energy in January 2009. Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using interest rates derived from the interpolation of the forecast interest rate curve. In addition, a spread was placed
on top of the interest rates to aid in capturing the volatility inherent in projecting future interest rates.     

(b)  
  See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies .     

(c)  
  Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity, and the option to convert natural gas to electricity at
third-party owned facilities (tolling arrangements) in some power locations throughout North America.     

(d)  
  Includes contractual obligations to purchase physical quantities of electricity, coal and nuclear fuel, certain normal purchases, energy derivatives and hedges per SFAS No. 133,
  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   (SFAS No. 133). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on forward market prices at December 31, 2008. For certain of
these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.

(e)  
  Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new
generation plants and nuclear plant refurbishments, environmental projects on fossil facilities, major maintenance of certain non-regulated plants, and commitments to buy wind and CT turbines. Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for
services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase can not be determined.     

(f)  
  Primarily relates to future annual funding obligations to the NDTF (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Asset Retirement Obligations ).     

(g)  
  The table above excludes certain obligations discussed herein related to amounts recorded within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the
uncertainty of the timing and amount of future cash flows necessary to settle these obligations. The amount of cash flows to be paid to settle the asset retirement obligations is not known with certainty as Duke Energy may use internal resources or
external resources to perform retirement activities. As a result, cash obligations for asset retirement activities are excluded from the table above. Asset retirement obligations recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets total $2,567 million and
the fair value of the NDTF, which will be used to help fund these obligations, is $1,436 million at December 31, 2008. The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and
self-insurance claims (see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies ) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing of when cash payments will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes
annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies ), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit
plans (see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Employee Benefit Plans ) and regulatory credits (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters ) because the amount and timing of the cash
payments are uncertain. Also, the table above excludes Deferred Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal
year. Additionally, amounts related to uncertain tax positions are excluded from the table above due to uncertainty of timing of future payments.     

(h)  
  Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets have been excluded from the above table.
              Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
             Risk Management Policies       Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, credit exposure, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates.
Management has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management
policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Treasurer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate
exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. The Treasurer is responsible for the overall governance of managing credit risk and commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             Commodity Price Risk       Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market
fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the
market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms.
Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information,
see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Risk Management and Hedging Activities, Credit Risk, and Financial
Instruments.       Validation of a contract s fair value is performed by an internal group separate from Duke Energy s deal origination
areas. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in Duke Energy s pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income
recognition.       Hedging Strategies.  Duke Energy closely monitors the risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and,
where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge
the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.      Certain derivatives used to manage Duke Energy s commodity price
exposure are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. To the extent that instruments accounted for as hedges are effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact to the Consolidated Statements of
Operations until delivery or settlement occurs. Accordingly, assumptions and valuation techniques for these contracts have no impact on reported earnings prior to settlement. Several factors influence the effectiveness of a hedge contract, including
the use of contracts with different commodities or unmatched terms and counterparty credit risk. Hedge effectiveness is monitored regularly and measured at least quarterly.      In addition to the hedge contracts described above and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Duke Energy enters into other contracts that qualify for the
normal purchases and sales exception described in paragraph 10 of SFAS No. 133, as amended and interpreted by Derivatives Implementation Group Issue C15,   Scope Exceptions: Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception for Option-Type
Contracts and Forward Contracts in Electricity,   and SFAS No. 149,   Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.   On a limited basis, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial
Power apply the normal purchase and normal sales exception to certain contracts. Income recognition and realization related to normal purchases and normal sales contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of power. For contracts
qualifying for the scope exception, no recognition of the contract s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract unless the contract is designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Recognition of the contracts in the Consolidated Statements of Operations will be the same regardless of whether the contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges or as normal purchases and sales, unless designated as the hedged item in a fair
value hedge, assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.      Other derivatives used to manage Duke Energy s commodity price exposure are either not
designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting. Derivatives related to regulated businesses reflect changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments as a regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Derivatives related to unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts (see Undesignated
Contracts below).       Generation Portfolio Risks for 2009 . Duke Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power,
natural gas, and coal prices in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Duke Energy optimizes the value of its bulk power marketing and non-regulated generation portfolios. The portfolios include generation assets (power
and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the
business units. The generation portfolio not utilized to serve native load or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reported earnings is partially offset by
mechanisms in the regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent price change
per megawatt hour in forward wholesale power prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy s pre-tax income of approximately $10 million in 2009 and would have had a $24 million impact in 2008, excluding the impact of mark-to-market
changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a
ten percent change in  
       
   75   

Table of Contents  

   PART II           
 the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy s pre-tax income of approximately $10 million in 2009 and would have had a $4
million impact in 2008, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, it was estimated that a ten percent price change per Million British Thermal (MMBtu) in natural gas prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy s pre-tax income of approximately $5 million in 2009 and would have had a $9
million impact in 2008, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below.        Sensitivities for derivatives beyond 2009 . Derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for delivery periods beyond 2009 are also
exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power and coal. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent price change in the forward price per megawatt
hour of wholesale power would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy s pre-tax income of approximately $11 million in 2009 and would have had a $16 million impact in 2008, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on
non-qualifying and undesignated power contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, it was estimated that a ten percent change in the forward
price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy s pre-tax income of approximately $10 million in 2009 and would have had a $14 million impact in 2008, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying
and undesignated coal contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.        Comparability of sensitivity
analysis . As Commercial Power began reapplying the provisions of SFAS No. 71 on December 17, 2008 to portions of its operations, certain derivative contracts that historically resulted in earnings volatility receive regulatory deferral
of gains and losses. Accordingly, the mark-to-market associated with these contracts will not impact earnings. However, to achieve comparability of sensitivity information between periods, the portion of the derivative contracts that receive
regulatory treatment have been included in the sensitivity amounts for both periods presented. Since certain derivative contracts included in the sensitivity analysis for 2009 will not result in earnings impacts, the forecasted sensitivities for
2009 are less than the pre-tax income amounts disclosed above.       Other Commodity Risks.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, pre-tax income in
2009 and 2008 was not expected to be materially impacted for exposures to other commodities  price changes.      The commodity price sensitivity
calculations above consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.             Credit Risk       Credit risk represents the loss
that Duke Energy would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. To reduce credit exposure, Duke Energy seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and
payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable Duke Energy to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after
specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Duke Energy may, at times, use credit derivatives or other structures and techniques to provide for third-party credit enhancement of Duke Energy s counterparties 
obligations. Duke Energy also obtains cash or letters of credit from customers to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on its financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and
conditions applicable to each transaction.      Duke Energy s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery
contracts. Duke Energy frequently uses master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an
established threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate
contracts and liquidate all positions.      Duke Energy s principal customers for power and natural gas marketing and transportation services are
industrial end-users, marketers, local distribution companies and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. Duke Energy has concentrations of receivables from natural gas and electric utilities and their affiliates, as well as
industrial customers and marketers throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect Duke Energy s overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to
credit risk, Duke Energy analyzes the counterparties  financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.      Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas  asbestos-related injuries and damages above an
aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas  cumulative payments began to exceed  
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            
 the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy s
third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,099 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of approximately
$1,032 million and $1,040 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of
any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.       Duke Energy and its subsidiaries also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less
than wholly-owned entities and third parties. Where Duke Energy has issued these guarantees, it is possible that Duke Energy could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to
perform. Where Duke Energy has issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, Duke Energy attempts to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See
Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Guarantees and Indemnifications,  for further information on guarantees issued by Duke Energy or its subsidiaries.      Based on Duke Energy s policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy does not anticipate a materially adverse
effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.             Interest Rate Risk      Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes
in interest rates as a result of its issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages its interest rate exposure by limiting its variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the
effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and
mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 8, 9, and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,   Risk Management and Hedging Activities, Credit Risk, and Financial
Instruments,   Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities,  and  Debt and Credit Facilities.       Based on a sensitivity
analysis as of December 31, 2008, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2009 than in 2008, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by approximately $28
million. Comparatively, based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2008 than in 2007, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would
have increased (decreased) by approximately $22 million. These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term and long-term
investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The increase in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to borrowings outstanding under the master credit facility. If interest rates changed significantly,
management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy s
financial structure.             Equity Price Risk       As described further in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,  Duke Energy invests in equity
securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations of the business. The vast majority of the investments in equity securities are within the nuclear decommissioning trust fund and assets of the various pension and other
post-retirement benefit plans.       Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds (NDTF).  As required by the NRC and the NCUC, Duke Energy maintains trust
funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Asset Retirement Obligations ). As of December 31, 2008, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international
equity securities, debt securities, fixed-income securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per NRC and NCUC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. The investments in
equity securities are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  rates; therefore, fluctuations in equity prices do not
affect Duke Energy s Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to an Order by the NCUC. Earnings or losses of the fund will
ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  rates.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            In 2005, the NCUC and PSCSC collectively approved a $48 million annual amount for contributions and expense levels for decommissioning. In each of the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy expensed approximately $48 million and contributed cash of approximately $48 million to the NDTF for decommissioning costs. Estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs $2.3 billion in 2003
dollars, based on a decommissioning study completed in 2004. This includes costs related to Duke Energy s proportionate ownership in the Catawba Nuclear Station, which was 12.5% at the time the study was completed. The other joint owners of the
Catawba Nuclear Station are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership interests in the station. As the NCUC and the PSCSC require that Duke Energy update its cost estimate for decommissioning its nuclear plants every five
years, new site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies were completed in January 2009 that showed total estimated nuclear decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, of
approximately $3 billion in 2008 dollars. This estimate is based on Duke Energy s current ownership share of Catawba Nuclear Station of approximately 19%. Duke Energy will file these site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies with the
NCUC and the PSCSC later this year. In addition to the decommissioning cost studies, a new funding study is underway to determine the appropriateness of the annual amounts currently being contributed to the NDTF. The NCUC and the PSCSC will consider
the results of the funding study, which could potentially increase the annual required contributions to the NDTF, in the latter part of 2009.      The
following table provides the fair value of investments held in the NDTF at December 31, 2008:         
     Pension Plan Assets.  Duke Energy maintains investments to help fund the costs of providing
non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. Those investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its
pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. Duke Energy s target asset allocation for equity securities is approximately 64% of the
value of the plan assets and the holdings are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke
Energy to increase its funding of the pension plan in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could
increase the amount of pension expense required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy s results of operations in those periods. In February 2009, Duke Energy made an approximate $500 million contribution to
its pension plan. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Employee Benefit Plans,  for additional information on pension plan assets.         
   Foreign Currency Risk       Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk
from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with
foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. Dollar and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also
use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the
foreign currencies to which it has exposure.      In 2009, Duke Energy s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real. A 10%
devaluation in the currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2008 in all of Duke Energy s exposure currencies would result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $10 million to Duke
Energy s Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2009. The Consolidated Balance Sheet would be negatively impacted by approximately $120 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31,
2008 as a result of a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates in all of Duke Energy s exposure currencies was expected to  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

   PART II           
 result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $10 million to Duke Energy s Consolidated Statements of
Operations and a reduction of approximately $145 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2007.             Other Issues        Energy Policy Act of
2005 . The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was signed into law in August 2005. The legislation directs specified agencies to conduct a significant number of studies on various aspects of the energy industry and to implement other provisions through
rulemakings. Among the key provisions, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 repeals the PUHCA of 1935, directs FERC to establish a self-regulating electric reliability organization governed by an independent board with FERC oversight, extends the Price
Anderson Act for 20 years (until 2025), provides loan guarantees, standby support and production tax credits for new nuclear reactors, gives FERC enhanced merger approval authority, provides FERC new backstop authority for the site selection of
certain electric transmission projects, streamlines the processes for approval and permitting of interstate pipelines, and reforms hydropower relicensing. In late 2005 and early 2006, FERC initiated several rulemakings as directed by the Energy
Policy Act of 2005. Duke Energy is currently evaluating these proposals and does not anticipate that these rulemakings will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.       Global Climate Change.  A body of scientific evidence now accepted by a growing majority of the public and policymakers suggests that the Earth s climate
is changing, caused in part by greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere from human activities. Although there is still much to learn about the causes and long-term effects of climate change, many, including Duke Energy, advocate taking steps now
to begin reducing emissions with the aim of stabilizing the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases at a level that avoids the potentially worst-case effects of climate change.       Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are produced from a wide variety of human activities. The U.S. EPA publishes
an inventory of these emissions annually. Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), an essential trace gas, is a by product of fossil fuel combustion and currently accounts for about 85% of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Duke Energy currently accounts for
about 1.5% of total U.S. CO 2  emissions, and about 1.3% of total U.S. GHG emissions.       Duke Energy is making long-term decisions for how best to meet its customers  growing demand for electricity. Duke Energy s strategy for meeting customer demand while building a sustainable business that allows our customers and
our shareholders to prosper in a carbon-constrained environment includes significant commitments to customer energy efficiency, renewable energy, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency natural gas electric generating plants,
and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. Each of these actions will or has the potential to reduce Duke Energy s CO 2  emissions and therefore its exposure to the costs of future GHG regulation.      Duke Energy s cost of complying with any federal GHG emissions law that may be enacted will depend on the design details of the program. If potential future
GHG legislation adopts a cap-and-trade approach, the design elements of such a program that will have the greatest influence on Duke Energy s compliance costs include (1) the required levels and timing of the cap, which will drive emission
allowance prices, (2) the emission sources covered under the cap, (3) the number of allowances that Duke Energy might be allocated at no cost on a year-to-year basis, (4) the type and effectiveness of any cost control mechanisms
included in the program, (5) the role of emission offsets, which will also influence allowance prices, and (6) the availability and cost of technologies that Duke Energy can deploy to lower its emissions. While Duke Energy believes it is
very likely that Congress will adopt mandatory GHG emission reduction legislation at some point, the timing and design details of any such legislation are highly uncertain.      While there were many bills introduced in both houses of Congress during the 110 th  Congress that
proposed mandatory limits on GHG emissions, S. 2191 America s Climate Security Act of 2007 (commonly referred to as the Lieberman-Warner bill after the sponsors Senators Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut and John Warner of Virginia) became
the primary climate change related legislative vehicle. The bill was approved by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee in December 2007, but failed to advance on the Senate floor in June 2008 when the bill fell considerably short of the
60 votes necessary to invoke cloture and cut off debate. No subsequent action was taken in the 110 th  Congress related to mandatory federal GHG legislation.      Numerous bills mandating reductions in GHG emissions are expected to be introduced in both houses of Congress
in 2009. The leadership in both the House and Senate has publicly stated it is their intent to proceed with climate legislation. President Obama, in his presidential campaign and after the election, indicated passage of climate change legislation is
a priority. Still, as the Senate debate in 2008 revealed, there are wide-ranging views in Congress regarding what constitutes acceptable GHG legislation. The current condition of the U.S. economy could add a degree of uncertainty, and there are
indications that, in the 111 th  Congress multiple committees will be involved in crafting GHG legislation, which will make the process of developing GHG legislation potentially more challenging.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            Duke Energy supports the enactment of federal GHG cap-and-trade legislation. Due to Duke Energy s concern about patchwork policies focused on a single
industrial sector or particular region of the country, Duke Energy believes this legislation should establish a program that applies to all parts of the economy, including power generation, industrial and commercial sources, and motor vehicles. To
permit the economy to adjust rationally to the policy, legislation should establish a long-term program that first slows the growth of emissions, stops them and then transitions to a gradually declining emissions cap as new lower-and non-emitting
technologies are developed and become available for wide-scale deployment. Legislation should also include adequate cost-containment measures to protect the U.S. economy from grave and unintended impacts of the policy.       Duke Energy is unable to estimate the potential cost of complying with currently unspecified and unknowable future GHG legislation or any indirect costs that might
result. Compliance costs are sensitive to numerous policy design details, allowance prices, and technology availability and cost. During the Senate debate on the Lieberman-Warner legislation in 2007 and 2008, Duke Energy attempted to estimate its
cost of complying with that legislation over a range of potential allowance prices. Duke Energy estimated its compliance costs under the Lieberman- Warner model to be between approximately $930 million to $2.8 billion in the first year of the
program (2012), which represented the cost to purchase emission allowances needed for compliance over and above what might be allocated to Duke Energy at zero-cost. Duke Energy would have continued to incur similar or greater annual compliance costs
in subsequent years for continued allowance purchases until such time as new lower-and zero-emitting technologies could be deployed to reduce emissions. Duke Energy s compliance costs at that time would then include the cost of purchasing and
deploying new generation technologies. Duke Energy would only be able to reduce its allowance purchase costs after new technologies were actually deployed.       There is no way to know how similar or different the requirements of the Lieberman-Warner legislation might be to any future GHG legislation that Congress may eventually adopt, so it is uncertain whether these costs are at all
representative of compliance costs that Duke Energy might incur as a result of any potential future GHG legislation. Under any future scenario involving mandatory GHG limitations, Duke Energy would plan to seek to recover its compliance costs
through appropriate regulatory mechanisms in the jurisdictions in which it operates.      At the state level, the Midwestern Governors Association has an
initiative under way called the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord. One of the ongoing activities of the initiative is the design of a regional GHG cap-and-trade system, with the anticipated end product to be a Model Rule for implementing a
GHG cap-and-trade system. Once complete, the Model Rule would go to participating states for their consideration and possible adoption. The states of Ohio and Indiana are currently only observers to the accord process. The outcome of this initiative
is highly uncertain and Duke Energy is unable to determine at this time whether there might be direct or indirect cost impacts from any new regulations that might result from the initiative.      While Duke Energy s near-term compliance strategy associated with any potential future GHG legislation
that incorporates a cap-and-trade mechanism will likely be focused on allowance purchases, it is expected that at some point in the future Duke Energy would begin reducing emissions by replacing existing coal-fired generation with new lower-and
zero-emitting generation technologies, and/or installing new carbon capture and sequestration technology on existing coal-fired generating plants when the technologies become available and cost-effective. It is not possible at this time, however, to
predict with certainty what new technologies might be developed, when they will be ready to be deployed, or what their costs will be. There is also uncertainty as to how or when certain non-technical issues, such as legal and liability questions,
that could affect the cost and availability of new technologies might be resolved by regulators. Duke Energy currently is focused on advanced nuclear generation, integrated gasification combined cycle generation with carbon capture and
sequestration, and capture and storage retrofit technology for existing pulverized coal-fired generation as promising new technologies for generating electricity with lower or no CO 2  emissions.      Duke Energy has begun the regulatory process to construct a new 2,234-megawatt nuclear power plant (William States Lee III Nuclear Station) in South Carolina,
petitioning the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 2007 for a combined construction and operating license. If constructed, this facility would produce virtually no GHG s and could begin operation in the 2018 timeframe.       With regard to advanced clean-coal, Duke Energy is in the process of constructing a 630-megawatt integrated
gasification combined cycle (IGCC) power plant in Indiana. One of the key features of the IGCC technology is that it has great potential to support the capture of its CO 2  emissions, with subsequent underground storage of the captured
CO 2 . Indiana s geology gives all indications of being conducive to permanent underground storage of CO 2 . Although the IGCC plant, scheduled to be completed in 2012, is not currently being equipped with the technology to
capture carbon emissions, space is being reserved for it to be added later. In January 2009, Duke Energy was given permission by the IURC to proceed with a CO 2  capture front-end engineering and design study. Duke Energy has also submitted
an application to the Department of Energy for up to a 50% sharing of the cost of installing and operating a pilot-scale CO 2  capture and storage project at Duke Energy s IGCC facility.          
   80   

Table of Contents  

   PART II            Duke Energy has regulatory requirements in North Carolina and Ohio to meet increasing percentages of customer
demand for electricity with renewable energy. In North Carolina the requirement reaches 12.5% in 2021 and in Ohio it reaches a minimum of 12.5% in 2024. Duke Energy also anticipates the Congress will consider a federal renewable portfolio standard
in 2009. Previous attempts have passed in the House but fallen short in the Senate. Duke Energy believes, however, chances of passage in the 111 th  Congress have increased.      In addition to relying on new technologies to reduce its CO 2  emissions, Duke Energy has filed for
regulatory approval in each of the states in which it operates (Duke Energy has received approval in Ohio) for a first-of-its-kind innovative approach in the utility industry to help meet growing customer demand with new and creative ways to
increase energy efficiency, thereby reducing demand (Save-A-Watt) instead of relying almost exclusively on new power plants to generate electricity.      Each of these activities has the potential to reduce Duke Energy s future CO 2  emissions which
will reduce Duke Energy s exposure to future GHG regulation.      Duke Energy recognizes the potential for more frequent and severe extreme weather
events as a result of climate change and the possibility that these weather events could have a material impact on its future results of operations should these events occur. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes in extreme weather
events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity) and the long period of time over which any changes might take place make estimating any potential future financial risk to Duke Energy s operations that may be caused by the physical
risks of climate change extremely challenging. Currently, Duke Energy plans and prepares for extreme weather events that it experiences from time to time, such as ice storms, tornados, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts. Duke
Energy s past experiences preparing for and responding to the impacts of these types of weather-related events would reasonably be expected to help management plan and prepare for future climate change-related severe weather events to reduce,
but not eliminate, the operational, economic and financial impacts of such events.      (For additional information on other issues related to Duke
Energy, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters  and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies. )             New Accounting Standards       The following new accounting standards have been issued, but have not yet been adopted by Duke Energy as of December 31, 2008:       SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS No. 141R).  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, which
replaces SFAS No. 141,   Business Combinations .  SFAS No. 141R retains the fundamental requirements in SFAS No. 141 that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations and that an acquirer
be identified for each business combination. This statement also establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any
noncontrolling (minority) interests in an acquiree, and any goodwill acquired in a business combination or gain recognized from a bargain purchase. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 141R must be applied prospectively to business combinations for which
the acquisition date occurs on or after January 1, 2009. The impact to Duke Energy of applying SFAS No. 141(R) for periods subsequent to implementation will be dependent upon the nature of any transactions within the scope of SFAS
No. 141(R). SFAS No. 141R changes the accounting for income taxes related to prior business combinations, such as Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy. Subsequent to the effective date of SFAS No. 141R, the resolution of any tax
contingencies relating to Cinergy that existed as of the date of the merger will be required to be reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations instead of being reflected as an adjustment to the purchase price via an adjustment to
goodwill.       SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin
(ARB) No. 51  (SFAS No. 160).  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, which amends ARB No. 51,   Consolidated Financial Statements ,  to establish accounting and reporting standards for the
noncontrolling (minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in a consolidated entity that should be reported as
equity in the consolidated financial statements. This statement also changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the
parent and the noncontrolling interest. In addition, SFAS No. 160 establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a parent s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. For Duke Energy, SFAS
No. 160 is effective as of January 1, 2009, and must be applied prospectively, except for certain presentation and disclosure requirements which must be applied retrospectively. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 will impact the
presentation of noncontrolling interests in Duke Energy s Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, as well as the calculation of
Duke Energy s effective tax rate.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

   PART II             SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment to FASB Statement No. 133  (SFAS
No. 161).  In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, which amends and expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities prescribed by SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities .  SFAS No. 161 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative
instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. Duke Energy will adopt SFAS No. 161 as of January 1, 2009 and SFAS No. 161 encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosure
for earlier periods at initial adoption. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not have any impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.       FSP No. APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  (FSP
APB 14-1).  In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP APB 14-1, which addresses the accounting for convertible debt securities that, upon conversion, may be settled by the issuer fully or partially in cash. FSP APB 14-1 does not change the accounting for
more traditional types of convertible debt securities that do not have a cash settlement feature and FSP APB 14-1 does not apply if, under existing GAAP for derivatives, the embedded conversion feature must be accounted for separately from the rest
of the instrument. For Duke Energy, FSP APB 14-1 is applicable as of January 1, 2009 and must be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented, even if the instrument has matured, has been converted, or has otherwise been extinguished
as of the effective date of FSP APB 14-1. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the impact of adopting FSP APB 14-1 on its historical results of operations as, in 2003, Duke Energy issued $770 million of convertible debt with a cash settlement
option that was fully converted to common stock during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007; however, Duke Energy does not anticipate the retrospective application of FSP APB 14-1 will have a material impact on Duke Energy s
historical results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Future impacts of FSP APB 14-1 will be determined by whether Duke Energy issues convertible debt with cash settlement options.       FSP EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities  (FSP EITF 03-6-1).  In
June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1 to address whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions may be participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing basic
EPS pursuant to the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128. The FASB concluded that rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) on unvested share-based payment awards that provide a noncontingent transfer of
value (such as a nonforfeitable right to receive cash when dividends are paid to common stockholders, irrespective of whether the award ultimately vests) to the holder of the share-based payment award constitute participation rights and, therefore,
should be included in the computation of basic EPS using the two-class method. Duke Energy issues certain share-based payment awards under which rights to dividends during the vesting period are nonforfeitable. For Duke Energy, FSP EITF 03-6-1 is
effective as of January 1, 2009 and all prior-period EPS data is required to be adjusted retrospectively to conform to the provisions of FSP EITF 03-6-1. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the impact of adoption of FSP No. EITF 03-6-1 on
its EPS; however, Duke Energy does not currently anticipate the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 will have a material impact on its calculated future or historical EPS amounts.       FSP FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosure about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1).  In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1, which amends SFAS No. 132(R) to require more
detailed disclosures about employers  plan assets, concentrations of risk within plan assets, and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. Additionally, companies will be required to disclose their pension assets in a
fashion consistent with SFAS No. 157 (i.e., Level 1, 2, and 3 of the fair value hierarchy) along with a roll-forward of the Level 3 values each year. For Duke Energy, FASP FAS 132(R)-1 is effective for Duke Energy s Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2009. The adoption of FSP FAS 132(R)-1 will not have any impact on Duke Energy s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.               Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.       See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk.          
   82   

Table of Contents  

   PART II               Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.          
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Duke Energy Corporation      Charlotte, North Carolina
            We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Duke
Energy Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, common stockholders  equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for these
financial statements and financial statement schedules, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedules and an opinion on the Company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audits.       We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting
was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing
the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is
a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other
personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the
internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duke
Energy Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control-Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.            /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP            Charlotte, North Carolina      February 27, 2009         
   83   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Consolidated Statements of Operations        (In
millions, except per-share amounts)          
           See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements         
   84   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Consolidated Balance Sheets        (In millions)
         
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements         
   85   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Consolidated Balance Sheets (Continued)        (In millions, except per-share amounts)          
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements         
   86   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (In
millions)          
           See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements         
   87   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders' Equity        and Comprehensive Income        (In millions)          

(b)  
  Reclassification into earnings from cash flow hedges, net of $2 tax expense in 2008, zero in 2007 and $19 tax expense in 2006. Reclassification into earnings from cash flow hedges in 2006 is
due primarily to the recognition of former Duke Energy North America s (DENA) unrealized net gains related to hedges on forecasted transactions which did not occur as a result of the sale to LS Power of substantially all of former DENA s
assets and contracts outside of the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions related to the Midwestern assets.     

(c)  
  Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of zero tax benefit in 2006.     

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   88   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements         For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006               1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Nature of Operations and Basis of Consolidation.  Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its
subsidiaries, Duke Energy), is an energy company primarily located in the Americas. These Consolidated Financial Statements include, after eliminating intercompany transactions and balances, the accounts of Duke Energy and all majority-owned
subsidiaries where Duke Energy has control, and those variable interest entities where Duke Energy is the primary beneficiary. These Consolidated Financial Statements also reflect Duke Energy s proportionate share of certain generation and
transmission facilities in South Carolina, Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky.      Duke Energy Holding Corp. (Duke Energy HC) was incorporated in Delaware on
May 3, 2005 as Deer Holding Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy Corporation (Old Duke Energy). On April 3, 2006, in accordance with their previously announced merger agreement, Old Duke Energy and Cinergy Corp. (Cinergy) merged
into wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy HC, resulting in Duke Energy HC becoming the parent entity. In connection with the closing of the merger transactions, Duke Energy HC changed its name to Duke Energy Corporation (New Duke Energy or Duke
Energy) and Old Duke Energy converted into a limited liability company named Duke Power Company LLC (subsequently renamed Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas) effective October 1, 2006). As a result of the merger transactions,
each outstanding share of Cinergy common stock was converted into 1.56 shares of common stock of Duke Energy, which resulted in the issuance of approximately 313 million shares. Additionally, each share of common stock of Old Duke Energy was
converted into one share of Duke Energy common stock. Old Duke Energy is the predecessor of Duke Energy for purposes of U.S. securities regulations governing financial statement filing. Therefore, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements
reflect the results of operations of Old Duke Energy for the three months ended March 31, 2006. New Duke Energy had separate operations for the period beginning with the effective date of the Cinergy merger, and references to amounts for
periods after the closing of the merger relate to New Duke Energy. Cinergy s results have been included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations from the effective date of acquisition and thereafter (see  Cinergy
Merger  in Note 3). Both Old Duke Energy and New Duke Energy are referred to as Duke Energy herein.      Shares of common stock of New Duke Energy
carry a stated par value of $0.001, while shares of common stock of Old Duke Energy had been issued at no par. In April 2006, as a result of the conversion of all outstanding shares of Old Duke Energy common stock to New Duke Energy common stock,
the par value of the shares issued was recorded in Common Stock within Common Stockholders  Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the excess of issuance price over stated par value was recorded in Additional Paid-in Capital within
Common Stockholders  Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Prior to the conversion of common stock from shares of Old Duke Energy to New Duke Energy, all proceeds from issuances of common stock were solely reflected in Common Stock within
Common Stockholders  Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.       On September 7, 2006, Duke Energy deconsolidated Crescent Resources,
LLC (Crescent) due to a reduction in ownership causing an inability to exercise control over Crescent (see Note 3). Crescent has been accounted for as an equity method investment since the date of deconsolidation. See Note 12 for a discussion of the
suspension of application of the equity method of accounting related to Duke Energy s investment in Crescent beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008.      On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off to shareholders of its natural gas businesses. The new natural gas business, which is named Spectra Energy Corp. (Spectra Energy), consists principally of certain operations of
Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Energy Capital, formerly Duke Capital LLC), primarily Duke Energy s former Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy s former Field Services business segment, which represented Duke
Energy s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream, LLC (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC) (DCP Midstream). Excluded from the spin-off were certain operations which were transferred from Spectra Energy Capital to Duke Energy in December
2006, primarily International Energy and Duke Energy s effective 50% interest in the Crescent Resources joint venture (Crescent JV), which is discussed further in Note 3. Subsequent to the spin-off, the results of operations of the spun off
businesses are presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods prior to the spin-off. The primary businesses that remained with Duke Energy post-spin are the U.S. Franchised Electric and
Gas business segment, the Commercial Power business segment, the International Energy business segment and Duke Energy s effective 50% interest in the Crescent JV. See Note 2 for further information on Duke Energy s business segments.
      Assets and liabilities of entities included in the spin-off of Spectra Energy were transferred from Duke Energy on a historical cost basis on
the date of the spin-off transaction. No gain or loss was recognized on the distribution of these operations to Duke Energy  
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 shareholders. Approximately $20.5 billion of assets, $14.9 billion of liabilities (which included approximately $8.6 billion of debt) and $5.6 billion of common
stockholders  equity (which included approximately $1.0 billion of accumulated other comprehensive income) were distributed from Duke Energy as of the date of the spin-off. Additionally, cash flows related to the businesses included in the
spin-off are included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2006.       Use of Estimates.  To conform to
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.), management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes. Although these estimates are based on
management s best available information at the time, actual results could differ.       Reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to Portions of Generation
in Ohio.  Commercial Power s generation operations in the Midwest include generation assets located in Ohio that are dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers. These assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales
outside the native load customer base, and such revenue is termed non-native.        Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply
the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71,   Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,   (SFAS No. 71) due to the comprehensive
electric deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. As described further below, effective December 17, 2008, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) approved Commercial Power s Electric Security Plan (ESP), which
resulted in the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of Commercial Power s operations as of that date.       From January 1,
2005 through December 31, 2008, Commercial Power had been operating under a rate stabilization plan (RSP), which was a market-based standard service offer. Although the RSP contained certain trackers that enhanced the potential for cost
recovery, there was no assurance of stranded cost recovery upon the expiration of the RSP on December 31, 2008 since it was initially anticipated that, upon the expiration of the RSP, there would be a move to full competitive markets.
Accordingly, Commercial Power did not apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to any of its generation operations prior to December 17, 2008. As discussed further in Note 4, in April 2008, new legislation (SB 221) was passed in Ohio and signed by
the Governor of Ohio on May 1, 2008. The new law codified the PUCO s authority to approve an electric utility s standard service offer either through an ESP or a Market Rate Option (MRO). The MRO is a price determined through a
competitive bidding process. On July 31, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio) filed an ESP, and with certain amendments, the ESP was approved by the PUCO on December 17, 2008. The ESP became effective on January 1, 2009.
      In connection with the approval of the ESP, Duke Energy reassessed the applicability of SFAS No. 71 to Commercial Power s generation
operations as SB 221 substantially increased the PUCO s oversight authority over generation in the state of Ohio, including giving the PUCO complete approval of generation rates and the establishment of an earnings test to determine if a
utility has earned significantly excessive earnings. Duke Energy determined that certain costs and related rates (riders) of Commercial Power s operations related to generation serving native load meet the criteria established by SFAS
No. 71 for regulatory accounting treatment as SB 221 and Duke Energy s approved ESP solidified the automatic recovery of certain costs of its generation serving native load and increased the likelihood that these operations will remain
under a cost recovery model for certain costs for the foreseeable future.      Under the ESP, Commercial Power will bill for its native load generation
via numerous riders. SB 221 and the ESP resulted in the approval of the automatic recovery of certain of these riders, which includes, but is not limited to, a fuel and purchased power (FPP) rider and certain portions of a cost of environmental
compliance (AAC) rider. Accordingly, Commercial Power began applying SFAS No. 71 to the corresponding RSP riders granting automatic recovery under the ESP on December 17, 2008. The remaining portions of Commercial Power s Ohio native
load generation operations, revenues from which are reflected in rate riders for which the ESP does not specifically allow automatic cost recovery, as well as all generation operations associated with non-native customers, including Commercial
Power s Midwest gas-fired generation assets, continue to not apply regulatory accounting as those operations do not meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers
continue to have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there is a risk that some or all of the regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. Duke Energy
will continue to monitor the amount of native load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when assessing the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its native load generation operations.       Despite certain portions of the Ohio native load operations not being subject to the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 71, all of Commercial Power s Ohio
native load operations  rates are subject to approval by the PUCO, and thus these operations are referred to here-in as Commercial Power s regulated operations.          
   90   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Extraordinary item.  The reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to generation in Ohio on December 17, 2008, as discussed above,
resulted in an approximate $67 million after-tax (approximately $103 million pre-tax) extraordinary gain related to mark-to-market losses previously recorded in earnings associated with open forward native load economic hedge contracts for fuel,
purchased power and emission allowances, which the RSP and ESP allow to be recovered through a FPP rider. There were no other immediate income statement impacts on the date of reapplication of SFAS No. 71. A corresponding regulatory asset was
established for the value of these contracts.       Cash and Cash Equivalents.  All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less
at the date of acquisition are considered cash equivalents.       Restricted Cash.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy had approximately
$85 million and $166 million, respectively, of restricted cash related primarily to proceeds from debt issuances that are held in trust for the purpose of funding future environmental construction or maintenance expenditures. This amount is
reflected in Other Current Assets and Other Investments and Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.       Inventory.  Inventory consists
primarily of materials and supplies and coal held for electric generation and is recorded primarily using the average cost method. Inventory related to Duke Energy s regulated operations is valued at historical cost consistent with ratemaking
treatment. Materials and supplies are recorded as inventory when purchased and subsequently charged to expense or capitalized to plant when installed. Inventory related to Duke Energy s non-regulated operations is valued at the lower of cost or
market.             Components of Inventory          
     Effective November 1, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky)
executed agreements with a third party to transfer title of natural gas inventory purchased by Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky to the third party. Under the agreements, the gas inventory will be stored and managed for Duke Energy Ohio and
Duke Energy Kentucky and will be delivered on demand. The gas storage agreements will expire on October 31, 2009, unless extended by the third party for an additional 12 months. As a result of the agreements, the combined natural gas inventory
of approximately $81 million being held by a third party as of December 31, 2008 has been classified as Other within Current Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.        Accounting for Risk Management and Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments.  Duke Energy may use a number of different derivative and non-derivative
instruments in connection with its commodity price, interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities, including swaps, futures, forwards, options and swaptions. All derivative instruments not designated and qualifying for the normal
purchases and normal sales exception under SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  , as amended (SFAS No. 133), are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair value. Cash
inflows and outflows related to derivative instruments, except those that contain financing elements and those related to net investment hedges and other investing activities, are presented as a component of operating cash flows in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Cash inflows and outflows related to derivative instruments containing financing elements are presented as a component of financing cash flows in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows while
cash inflows and outflows related to net investment hedges and derivatives related to other investing activities are presented as a component of investing cash flows in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Duke Energy has designated all energy commodity derivatives as non-trading subsequent to the October 2006 sale of Cinergy Marketing
and Trading, LP, and Cinergy Canada, Inc. (collectively CMT), which is discussed further in Note 14. Gains and losses for all derivative contracts that do not represent physical delivery contracts are reported on a net basis in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. For each of Duke Energy s physical delivery contracts that are derivatives, the accounting model and presentation of gains and losses, or revenue and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations is shown below.

Classification of Contract    
      
     Duke Energy       Accounting Model    
      
     Presentation of Gains   Losses or Revenue   Expense     
 
      Trading derivatives     
      
    Mark-to-market (a)    
      
  Net basis in Non-regulated Electric, Natural Gas, and Other   

Non-trading derivatives:     

Cash flow hedge   
      
    Accrual (b)    
      
  Gross basis in the same income statement category as the related hedged item   

Fair value hedge   
      
    Accrual (b)    
      
  Gross basis in the same income statement category as the related hedged item   

Normal purchase or sale   
      
    Accrual (b)    
      
  Gross basis upon settlement in the corresponding income statement category based on commodity type   

Undesignated   
      
    Mark-to-market (a)    
      
  Net basis in the related income statement category for interest rate, currency and commodity derivatives in the non-regulated businesses. For derivatives related to the regulated businesses, gains and
losses are deferred as regulatory liabilities and assets, respectively.   

(a)  
  An accounting term used by Duke Energy to refer to derivative contracts for which an asset or liability is recognized at fair value and the change in the fair value of that asset or liability
is generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the non-regulated businesses and the Consolidated Balance Sheets within regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities for the regulated businesses. This term is applied to
trading and undesignated non-trading derivative contracts. As this term is not explicitly defined within GAAP, Duke Energy s application of this term could differ from that of other companies.     

(b)  
  An accounting term used by Duke Energy to refer to contracts for which there is generally no recognition in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for any changes in fair value until the
service is provided, the associated delivery period occurs or there is hedge ineffectiveness. As discussed further below, this term is applied to derivative contracts that are accounted for as cash flow hedges, fair value hedges, and normal
purchases or sales, as well as to non-derivative contracts used for commodity risk management purposes. As this term is not explicitly defined within GAAP, Duke Energy s application of this term could differ from that of other companies.
       On January 1, 2008, Duke Energy adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FIN 39-1,   Amendment of FASB Interpretation No 39,
Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts   (FSP No. FIN 39-1). In accordance with FSP No. FIN 39-1, Duke Energy offsets fair value amounts (or amounts that approximate fair value) recognized on its Consolidated Balance Sheets
related to cash collateral amounts receivable or payable against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement. Prior to the adoption of FSP No. FIN 39-1, Duke
Energy offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement in accordance with FIN 39,   Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts , 
but presented cash collateral on a gross basis within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy had receivables related to the right to reclaim cash collateral of approximately $86 million and $5 million,
respectively, and had payables related to obligations to return cash collateral of an insignificant amount at each balance sheet date that have been offset against net derivative positions in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, Duke
Energy had cash collateral receivables of approximately $53 million and $15 million under master netting arrangements that have not been offset against net derivative positions at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as these amounts
primarily represent initial margin deposits related to New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) futures contracts. Duke Energy had insignificant cash collateral payables under master netting arrangements that have not been offset against net derivative
positions at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007.       Cash Flow and Fair Value Hedges . Qualifying energy commodity and other
derivatives may be designated as either a hedge of a forecasted transaction or future cash flows (cash flow hedge) or a hedge of a recognized asset, liability or firm commitment (fair value hedge). For all contracts accounted for as a hedge, Duke
Energy prepares formal documentation of the hedge in accordance with SFAS No. 133. In addition, at inception and at least every three months thereafter, Duke Energy formally assesses whether the hedge contract is highly effective in offsetting
changes in cash flows or fair values of hedged items. Duke Energy documents hedging activity by transaction type (futures/swaps) and risk management strategy (commodity price risk/interest rate risk).         
   92   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Changes in the fair value of a derivative designated and qualified as a cash flow hedge, to the extent effective, are included in the
Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (AOCI) until earnings are affected by the hedged item. Duke Energy discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when
it has determined that a derivative no longer qualifies as an effective hedge, or when it is no longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will occur. When hedge accounting is discontinued because the derivative no longer qualifies as an
effective hedge, the derivative is subject to the Mark-to-Market model of accounting (MTM Model) prospectively. Gains and losses related to discontinued hedges that were previously accumulated in AOCI will remain in AOCI until the underlying
contract is reflected in earnings; unless it is probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will not occur, at which time associated deferred amounts in AOCI are immediately recognized in earnings.      For derivatives designated as fair value hedges, Duke Energy recognizes the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the
hedged item in earnings, to the extent effective, in the current period. All derivatives designated and accounted for as hedges are classified in the same category as the item being hedged in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In addition,
all components of each derivative gain or loss are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.       Normal Purchases and Normal Sales
(NPNS) . On a limited basis, Duke Energy applies the NPNS exception to certain contracts. If contracts cease to meet this exception, the fair value of the contracts is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the contracts are accounted
for prospectively using the MTM Model unless immediately designated as a cash flow or fair value hedge.       Valuation.  When available, quoted
market prices or prices obtained through external sources are used to measure a contract s fair value. For contracts with a delivery location or duration for which quoted market prices are not available, fair value is determined based on
internally developed valuation techniques or models. For derivatives recognized under the MTM Model, valuation adjustments are also recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.        Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.  Duke Energy accounts for investments in debt and equity securities pursuant to SFAS No. 115 ,
 Accounting For Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,   (SFAS No. 115). Accordingly, Duke Energy has classified investments in debt and equity securities into two categories   trading and available-for-sale.
Certain investments in debt and equity securities held in grantor trusts associated with certain deferred compensation plans are classified as trading securities in accordance with EITF 97-14,   Accounting for Deferred Compensation
Arrangements Where Amounts Earned are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested.   These investments are reported at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets with net realized and unrealized gains and losses included in earnings each period to
effectively offset the corresponding earnings impact associated with the change in the fair value of the deferred compensation liability to which the investments relate. All other investments in debt and equity securities are classified as
available-for-sale securities, which are also reported at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains and losses included in AOCI or a regulatory asset or liability, unless it is determined that the carrying value of an
investment is other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the write-down to fair value is included in earnings, unless deferred in accordance with a regulatory order. Investments in debt and equity securities are classified as either short-term
investments or long-term investments based on management s intent and ability to sell these securities, taking into consideration illiquidity factors in the current markets with respect to certain short-term investments that have historically
provided for a high degree of liquidity, such as investments in auction rate debt securities.       Duke Energy analyzes all securities classified as
available-for-sale to determine whether a decline in fair value should be considered other-than-temporary. Criteria used to evaluate whether an impairment is other-than-temporary includes, but is not limited to, the length of time over which the
market value has been lower than the cost basis of the investment, the percentage decline compared to the cost of the investment and management s intent and ability to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow
for any anticipated recovery in market value. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the investment is written down to its fair value. See Note 13 for a discussion of other-than-temporary impairments recorded during the
year ended December 31, 2008.       Duke Energy holds investments in debt and equity securities in a Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund (NDTF),
which are considered available-for-sale securities and are reported at fair value on Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Since Duke Energy does not have day-to-day oversight of the investments in the NDTF, management does not have the
ability to demonstrate the intent and ability to hold investments for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Accordingly, management considers all securities held in the NDTF with market values below their
respective original or adjusted cost basis to be other-than-temporarily impaired any time the original or adjusted cost basis exceeds the market value of the investment. However, realized and unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, on the NDTF
holdings are deferred and reflected as regulatory assets or liabilities on Duke Energy s Consolidated  
        
   93   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 Balance Sheets as Duke Energy expects to recover all costs for decommissioning its nuclear generation assets through regulated rates pursuant to a regulatory order by
the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC).      See Note 10 for further information on the investments in debt and equity securities, including
investments held in the NDTF.       Goodwill.  Duke Energy evaluates goodwill for potential impairment under the guidance of SFAS No. 142,
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   (SFAS No. 142). Under this provision, goodwill is subject to an annual test for impairment. Duke Energy has designated August 31 as the date it performs the annual review for goodwill
impairment for its reporting units. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Duke Energy performs the annual review for goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level, which Duke Energy has determined to be an operating segment or one level
below.      Impairment testing of goodwill consists of a two-step process. The first step involves a comparison of the determined fair value of a
reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the process involves a comparison of the fair value and carrying value of the goodwill of that reporting unit. If the
carrying value of the goodwill of a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. Additional impairment tests are performed between the annual reviews if events or
changes in circumstances make it more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount.      Duke Energy primarily
uses a discounted cash flow analysis to determine fair value. Key assumptions in the determination of fair value include the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and estimated run rates of operation, maintenance, and
general and administrative costs. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory stability and ability to renew contracts as well as other factors into its revenue and expense forecasts. See Note 11 for further
information.       Property, Plant and Equipment.  Property, plant and equipment are stated at the lower of historical cost less accumulated
depreciation or fair value, if impaired. Duke Energy capitalizes all construction-related direct labor and material costs, as well as indirect construction costs. Indirect costs include general engineering, taxes and the cost of funds used during
construction (see  Deferred Returns and Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC),  discussed below). The cost of renewals and betterments that extend the useful life of property, plant and equipment are also capitalized. The
cost of repairs, replacements and major maintenance projects, which do not extend the useful life or increase the expected output of the asset, is expensed as incurred. Depreciation is generally computed over the estimated useful life of the asset
using the composite straight-line method. The composite weighted-average depreciation rates, excluding nuclear fuel, were 3.11% for 2008, 3.19% for 2007, and 3.51% for 2006. Depreciation studies are conducted periodically to update the composite
rates and are approved by the various state commissions.      When Duke Energy retires its regulated property, plant and equipment, it charges the
original cost plus the cost of retirement, less salvage value, to accumulated depreciation. When it sells entire regulated operating units, or retires or sells non-regulated properties, the cost is removed from the property account and the related
accumulated depreciation and amortization accounts are reduced. Any gain or loss is recorded in earnings, unless otherwise required by the applicable regulatory body.      See Note 15 for further information on the components and estimated useful lives of Duke Energy s property, plant and equipment balance.       Asset Retirement Obligations.  Duke Energy recognizes asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143,     Accounting For Asset Retirement Obligations     (SFAS No. 143),
for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and/or normal use of the asset and FIN No. 47,     Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations     (FIN 47), for conditional asset retirement obligations. The term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in SFAS No. 143 and FIN 47 refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity
in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists
about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of settlement may be conditional on a future event. Both SFAS No. 143 and FIN 47 require that the present value of the projected liability for an asset retirement
obligation be recognized in the period in which it is incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The present value of the liability is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset. This additional carrying amount is then
depreciated over the estimated useful life of the asset. See Note 7 for further information regarding Duke Energy s asset retirement obligations.          Investments in Residential, Commercial, and Multi-Family Real Estate.  Prior to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, investments in residential, commercial and multi-family real estate were carried at cost, net of any
related depreciation. However, any properties meeting the criteria in SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets   (SFAS No. 144), to  
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 be presented as Assets Held for Sale, were carried at lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Proceeds from sales of
residential properties prior to September 2006 are presented within Operating Revenues and the costs of properties sold prior to the date of deconsolidation are included in Operation, Maintenance and Other in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations. Cash flows related to the acquisition, development and disposal of residential properties prior to the date of deconsolidation are included in Cash Flows from Operating Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Gains and
losses on sales of commercial and multi-family properties as well as  legacy  land sales prior to the date of deconsolidation are presented as such in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, and cash flows related to these activities
are included in Cash Flows from Investing Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.       Long-Lived Asset Impairments, Assets Held For
Sale and Discontinued Operations.  Duke Energy evaluates whether long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, have been impaired when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. For such long-lived assets, an
impairment exists when its carrying value exceeds the sum of estimates of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. When alternative courses of action to recover the carrying amount of a
long-lived asset are under consideration, a probability-weighted approach is used for developing estimates of future undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying value of the long-lived asset is not recoverable based on these estimated future
undiscounted cash flows, the impairment loss is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over its fair value, such that the asset s carrying value is adjusted to its estimated fair value.      Management assesses the fair value of long-lived assets using commonly accepted techniques, and may use more than one source. Sources to determine fair value
include, but are not limited to, recent third party comparable sales, internally developed discounted cash flow analysis and analysis from outside advisors. Significant changes in market conditions resulting from events such as changes in commodity
prices or the condition of an asset, or a change in management s intent to utilize the asset may generally require management to re-assess the cash flows related to the long-lived assets.      Duke Energy uses the criteria in SFAS No. 144 to determine when an asset is classified as  held for sale.  Upon classification as  held for
sale,  the long-lived asset or asset group is measured at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, depreciation is ceased and the asset or asset group is separately presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. When an
asset or asset group meets the SFAS No. 144 criteria for classification as held for sale within the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Duke Energy does not retrospectively adjust prior period balance sheets to conform to current year presentation.
     Duke Energy uses the criteria in SFAS No. 144 and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 03-13,   Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of
FASB Statement No. 144 in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations   (EITF 03-13), to determine whether components of Duke Energy that are being disposed of, are classified as held for sale or have been wound down are
required to be reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. To qualify as a discontinued operation under SFAS No. 144, the component being disposed of must have clearly distinguishable operations and cash
flows. Additionally, pursuant to EITF 03-13, Duke Energy must not have significant continuing involvement in the operations after the disposal (i.e. Duke Energy must not have the ability to influence the operating or financial policies of the
disposed component) and cash flows of the operations being disposed of must have been eliminated from Duke Energy s ongoing operations (i.e. Duke Energy does not expect to generate significant direct cash flows from activities involving the
disposed component after the disposal transaction is completed). Assuming both preceding conditions are met, the related results of operations for the current and prior periods, including any related impairments, are reflected within discontinued
operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. If an asset held for sale does not meet the requirements for discontinued operations classification, any impairments and gains or losses on sales are recorded as a component of
continuing operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Impairments for all other long-lived assets are recorded as Impairments Charges in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 14 for discussion of discontinued operations.
      Captive Insurance Reserves.  Duke Energy has captive insurance subsidiaries which provide insurance coverage, on an indemnity basis, to Duke
Energy entities as well as certain third parties, on a limited basis, for various business risks and losses, such as workers compensation, property, business interruption and general liability. Liabilities include provisions for estimated losses
incurred but not yet reported (IBNR), as well as provisions for known claims which have been estimated on a claims-incurred basis. IBNR reserve estimates involve the use of assumptions and are primarily based upon historical loss experience,
industry data and other actuarial assumptions. Reserve estimates are adjusted in future periods as actual losses differ from historical experience.         
   95   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Duke Energy, through its captive insurance entities, also has reinsurance coverage, which provides reimbursement to Duke Energy for
certain losses above a per incident and/or aggregate retention. Duke Energy recognizes a reinsurance receivable for recovery of incurred losses under its captive s reinsurance coverage once realization of the receivable is deemed probable by
its captive insurance companies.       Unamortized Debt Premium, Discount and Expense.  Premiums, discounts and expenses incurred with the issuance
of outstanding long-term debt are amortized over the terms of the debt issues. Any call premiums or unamortized expenses associated with refinancing higher-cost debt obligations to finance regulated assets and operations are amortized consistent
with regulatory treatment of those items, where appropriate. The amortization expense is recorded as a component of interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and is reflected as Depreciation and amortization within Net cash
provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.       Loss Contingencies.  Duke Energy is involved in certain legal
and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. Loss contingencies are accounted for under SFAS No. 5,   Accounting for Contingencies,   (SFAS No. 5). Under SFAS No. 5, contingent losses are
recorded when it is determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When a range of the probable loss exists and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount,
Duke Energy records a loss contingency at the minimum amount in the range. Unless otherwise required by GAAP, legal fees are expensed as incurred. See Note 18 for further information.       Environmental Expenditures.  Duke Energy expenses environmental expenditures related to conditions caused by past operations that do not generate current or
future revenues. Environmental expenditures related to operations that generate current or future revenues are expensed or capitalized, as appropriate. Liabilities are recorded on an undiscounted basis when the necessity for environmental
remediation becomes probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated, or when other potential environmental liabilities are reasonably estimable and probable.       Severance and Special Termination Benefits.  Duke Energy has an ongoing severance plan that is accounted for primarily under SFAS No. 112,   Employers  Accounting for Postemployment Benefits  
(SFAS No. 112). In general, the longer a terminated employee worked prior to termination the greater the amount of severance benefits under this ongoing severance plan. Under SFAS No. 112, Duke Energy records a liability for severance once
a plan is committed to by management, or sooner if severances are probable and the related severance benefits can be reasonably estimated. Duke Energy accounts for involuntary severance benefits that are incremental to its ongoing severance plan
benefits in accordance with SFAS No. 146,   Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities   (SFAS No. 146). Under SFAS No. 146, Duke Energy measures the obligation when all the criteria of SFAS
No. 146 are met and records the expense at its fair value at the communication date if there are no future service requirements, or, if future service is required to receive the termination benefit, ratably over the service period. From time to
time, Duke Energy offers special termination benefits under voluntary severance programs. These voluntary severance programs may or may not include severance payments accounted for under the ongoing severance plan. Special termination benefits are
accounted for under SFAS No. 88,   Employers  Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits   (SFAS No. 88). Under SFAS No. 88, special termination
benefits are measured upon employee acceptance and recorded immediately absent a significant retention period. If a significant retention period exists, the cost of the special termination benefits are recorded ratably over the remaining service
periods of the affected employees. Employee acceptance of voluntary severance benefits is determined by management based on the facts and circumstances of the special termination benefits being offered. See Note 13 for further information on Duke
Energy s severance programs.       Cost-Based Regulation.  Duke Energy accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of
SFAS No. 71. The economic effects of regulation can result in a regulated company recording assets for costs that have been or are expected to be approved for recovery from customers in a future period or recording liabilities for amounts that
are expected to be returned to customers in the rate-setting process in a period different from the period in which the amounts would be recorded by an unregulated enterprise. Accordingly, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from
the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under GAAP for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities are amortized consistent with the treatment of the related cost in the ratemaking process. Management continually
assesses whether regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the status of any pending or potential deregulation
legislation. Additionally, management continually assesses whether any regulatory liabilities have been incurred. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery and that no regulatory
liabilities, other than those recorded, have been incurred. These regulatory assets and liabilities are primarily classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Regulatory Assets and Deferred Debits, and Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities.
Duke Energy periodically  
       
   96   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 evaluates the applicability of SFAS No. 71, and considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition. If cost-based regulation ends or
competition increases, Duke Energy may have to reduce its asset balances to reflect a market basis less than cost and write-off the associated regulatory assets and liabilities. For further information see Note 4.      In order to apply the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 71 and record regulatory assets and liabilities, the scope criteria in SFAS No. 71 must be met.
Management makes significant judgments in determining whether the scope criteria of SFAS No. 71 are met for its operations, including determining whether revenue rates for services provided to customers are subject to approval by an
independent, third-party regulator, whether the regulated rates are designed to recover specific costs of providing the regulated service, and a determination of whether, in view of the demand for the regulated services and the level of competition,
it is reasonable to assume that rates set at levels that will recover the operations  costs can be charged to and collected from customers. This final criterion requires consideration of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition,
direct and indirect, during the recovery period for any capitalized costs. If facts and circumstances change so that a portion of Duke Energy s regulated operations meet all of the scope criteria set forth in SFAS No. 71 when such criteria
had not been previously met, SFAS No. 71 would be reapplied to all or a separable portion of the operations. Such reapplication includes adjusting the balance sheet for amounts that meet the definition of a regulatory asset or regulatory
liability of SFAS 71. Refer to the above section titled,  Reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to Portions of Generation in Ohio.        Guarantees.  Duke Energy accounts for guarantees and related contracts, for which it is the guarantor, under FIN No. 45,   Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others   (FIN 45). In accordance with FIN 45, upon issuance or modification of a guarantee on or after January 1, 2003, Duke Energy recognizes a liability at the time of issuance or material modification
for the estimated fair value of the obligation it assumes under that guarantee, if any. Fair value is estimated using a probability-weighted approach. Duke Energy reduces the obligation over the term of the guarantee or related contract in a
systematic and rational method as risk is reduced under the obligation. Any additional contingent loss for guarantee contracts subsequent to the initial recognition of a liability under FIN 45 is accounted for and recognized in accordance with SFAS
No. 5 at the time a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.      Duke Energy has entered into various
indemnification agreements related to purchase and sale agreements and other types of contractual agreements with vendors and other third parties. These agreements typically cover environmental, tax, litigation and other matters, as well as breaches
of representations, warranties and covenants. Typically, claims may be made by third parties for various periods of time, depending on the nature of the claim. Duke Energy s potential exposure under these indemnification agreements can range
from a specified to an unlimited dollar amount, depending on the nature of the claim and the particular transaction. See Note 19 for further information.       Stock-Based Compensation.  Effective January 1, 2006, Duke Energy adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),   Share-Based Payment   (SFAS No. 123(R)). SFAS No. 123(R) establishes accounting for
stock-based awards, including stock options, exchanged for employee and certain non-employee services. Accordingly, for employee awards, equity classified stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the
award, and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period, which generally begins on the date the award is granted through the earlier of the date the award vests or the date the employee becomes retirement eligible. Share-based awards,
including stock options, granted to employees that are already retirement eligible are deemed to have vested immediately upon issuance, and therefore, compensation cost for those awards is recognized on the date such awards are granted. See Note 21
for further information.       Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenue.  Revenues on sales of electricity and gas are recognized when either the
service is provided or the product is delivered. Unbilled revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour or per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) for all customer classes to the number of estimated kilowatt-hours or Mcfs delivered
but not billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly period to period as a result of factors including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns and customer mix. Unbilled revenues, which are recorded as Receivables in Duke
Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, were approximately $360 million and $380 million, respectively.      Prior
to the deconsolidation of Crescent in September 2006, profit from the sale of residential developed lots was recognized at closing under the full accrual method using estimates of average gross profit per lot within a project or phase of a project
based on total estimated project costs. Land and land development costs were allocated to land sold based on relative sales values. Crescent recognized revenues from commercial and multi-family project sales at closing, or later using a deferral
method when the criteria for sale accounting had not been met. Profit was recognized based on the difference between the sales price and the carrying cost of the project. Revenue was recognized under the completed contract method for condominium
units that Crescent developed and sold in Florida.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Nuclear Fuel.  Amortization of nuclear fuel purchases is included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as Fuel Used in
Electric Generation and Purchased Power-Regulated. The amortization is recorded using the units-of-production method.       Fuel Cost Deferrals. 
Fuel expense includes fuel costs or other recoveries that are deferred through fuel clauses established by Duke Energy s regulators. These clauses allow Duke Energy to recover fuel costs, fuel-related costs and portions of purchased power costs
through surcharges on customer rates. These deferred fuel costs are recognized in revenues and fuel expenses as they are billable to customers.       Deferred Returns and AFUDC.  Deferred returns, recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 71, represent the estimated financing costs associated with funding certain regulatory assets or liabilities of the U.S. Franchised Electric and
Gas segment. The amount of deferred return expense included in Other Income and Expenses, net was $11 million in 2008, $15 million in 2007, and $14 million in 2006.      In accordance with regulatory treatment, Duke Energy records AFUDC, which represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds necessary to finance the construction of new regulated facilities. Both the debt and
equity components of AFUDC are non-cash amounts within the Consolidated Statements of Operations. AFUDC is capitalized as a component of the cost of Property, Plant and Equipment, with an offsetting credit to Other Income and Expenses, net on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the equity component and as an offset to Interest Expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the debt component. After construction is completed, Duke Energy is permitted to recover these costs
through inclusion in the rate base and the corresponding depreciation expense or nuclear fuel expense. The total amount of AFUDC included within income from continuing operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations was $205 million in 2008,
which consisted of an after-tax equity component of $148 million and a before-tax interest expense component of $57 million. The total amount of AFUDC included within income from continuing operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations was
$109 million in 2007, which consisted of an after-tax equity component of $69 million and a before-tax interest expense component of $40 million. The total amount of AFUDC included within income from continuing operations in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations was $75 million in 2006, which consisted of an after-tax equity component of $46 million and a before-tax interest expense component of $29 million. The 2006 amount excludes AFUDC and capitalized interest of approximately
$22 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, which is included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.      AFUDC equity is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations on an after-tax basis and is a permanent difference item for income tax purposes (i.e. a
permanent difference between financial statement and income tax reporting), thus reducing Duke Energy s income tax expense and effective tax rate during the construction phase in which AFUDC equity is being recorded. The effective tax rate is
subsequently increased in future periods when the completed property, plant and equipment is placed in service and depreciation of the AFUDC equity commences. See Note 6 for information related to the impacts of AFUDC equity on Duke Energy s
effective tax rate.        Accounting For Purchases and Sales of Emission Allowances.
 Emission allowances are issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at zero cost and permit the holder of the allowance to emit certain gaseous by-products of fossil fuel combustion, including sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) and nitrogen
oxide (NO x ). Allowances may also be bought and sold via third party transactions or consumed as the emissions are generated. Allowances allocated to or acquired by Duke Energy are held primarily for consumption. Duke Energy records
emission allowances as Intangible Assets on its Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognizes the allowances in earnings as they are consumed or sold. Gains or losses on sales of emission allowances for non-regulated businesses are presented on a net
basis in Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. For regulated businesses that provide for direct recovery of emission allowances, any gain or loss on sales of recoverable
emission allowances are included in the rate structure of the regulated entity and are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability. Future rates charged to retail customers are impacted by any gain or loss on sales of recoverable emission allowances
and, therefore, as the recovery of the gain or loss is recognized in operating revenues, the regulatory asset or liability related to the emission allowance activity is recognized as a component of Fuel Used in Electric Generation and Purchased
Power-Regulated in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For regulated businesses that do not provide for direct recovery of emission allowances through a cost tracking mechanism, gains and losses on sales of emission allowances are included in
Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, or are deferred, depending on level of regulatory certainty. Purchases and sales of emission allowances are presented gross as investing activities
on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 13 for discussion regarding the impairment of the carrying value of certain emission allowances in 2008.          
   98   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Income Taxes.  Duke Energy and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return and other state and foreign
jurisdictional returns as required. Deferred income taxes have been provided for temporary differences between the GAAP and tax carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. These differences create taxable or tax-deductible amounts for future
periods. Investment tax credits have been deferred and are being amortized over the estimated useful lives of the related properties in Duke Energy s regulated operations.      Management evaluates and records uncertain tax positions in accordance with FIN 48,   Accounting For Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of
FASB Statement 109 ,  (FIN 48), which was adopted by Duke Energy on January 1, 2007. Duke Energy records unrecognized tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain
income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. Management evaluates each position based
solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. In accordance with FIN 48, Duke Energy records the largest
amount of the unrecognized tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement or effective settlement. Management considers a tax position effectively settled for the purpose of recognizing previously unrecognized tax
benefits when the following conditions exist: (i) the taxing authority has completed its examination procedures, including all appeals and administrative reviews that the taxing authority is required and expected to perform for the tax
positions, (ii) Duke Energy does not intend to appeal or litigate any aspect of the tax position included in the completed examination, and (iii) it is remote that the taxing authority would examine or reexamine any aspect of the tax
position. See Note 6 for further information.      Duke Energy records, as it relates to taxes, interest expense as Interest Expense and interest income
and penalties in Other Income and Expenses, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Excise Taxes . Certain excise taxes levied by
state or local governments are collected by Duke Energy from its customers. These taxes, which are required to be paid regardless of Duke Energy s ability to collect from the customer, are accounted for on a gross basis. When Duke Energy acts
as an agent, and the tax is not required to be remitted if it is not collected from the customer, the taxes are accounted for on a net basis. Duke Energy s excise taxes accounted for on a gross basis and recorded as revenues in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations were approximately $278 million, $277 million and $221 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       Segment Reporting.  SFAS No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information   (SFAS No. 131), establishes
standards for a public company to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable operating segments in annual and interim financial reports. Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial
information is available and evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. Two or more operating segments may be aggregated into a single reportable segment provided
aggregation is consistent with the objective and basic principles of SFAS No. 131, if the segments have similar economic characteristics, and the segments are considered similar under criteria provided by SFAS No. 131. There is no
aggregation within Duke Energy s reportable business segments. SFAS No. 131 also establishes standards and related disclosures about the way the operating segments were determined, including products and services, geographic areas and
major customers, differences between the measurements used in reporting segment information and those used in the general-purpose financial statements, and changes in the measurement of segment amounts from period to period. The description of Duke
Energy s reportable segments, consistent with how business results are reported internally to management and the disclosure of segment information in accordance with SFAS No. 131, is presented in Note 2.       Foreign Currency Translation.  The local currencies of Duke Energy s foreign operations have been determined to be their functional currencies, except
for certain foreign operations whose functional currency has been determined to be the U.S. Dollar, based on an assessment of the economic circumstances of the foreign operation, in accordance with SFAS No. 52,   Foreign Currency
Translation.   Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, except for those whose functional currency is the U.S. Dollar, are translated into U.S. Dollars at the exchange rates at period end. Translation adjustments resulting from
fluctuations in exchange rates are included as a separate component of AOCI. Revenue and expense accounts of these operations are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Gains and losses arising from balances and
transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are included in the results of operations in the period in which they occur. See Note 24 for additional information on gains and losses primarily associated with International
Energy s remeasurement of certain cash and debt balances into the reporting entity s functional currency and transaction gains and losses. Deferred taxes are not provided on translation gains and losses where Duke Energy expects earnings
of a foreign operation to be permanently reinvested. Gains and losses relating to derivatives designated as hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in foreign operations are reported in foreign currency translation as a separate
component of AOCI.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows.  Duke Energy has made certain classification elections within its Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows related to discontinued operations, cash received from insurance proceeds, debt restricted for qualified capital and maintenance expenditures and cash overdrafts. Cash flows from discontinued operations are combined with cash flows
from continuing operations within operating, investing and financing cash flows within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Cash received from insurance proceeds are classified depending on the activity that resulted in the insurance proceeds
(for example, general liability insurance proceeds are included as a component of operating activities while insurance proceeds from damaged property are included as a component of investing activities). Proceeds from debt issued with restrictions
to fund future capital and maintenance expenditures are presented on a gross basis, with the debt proceeds classified as a financing cash inflow and the changes in the restricted funds held in trust presented as a component of investing activities.
With respect to cash overdrafts, book overdrafts are included within operating cash flows while bank overdrafts are included within financing cash flows.       Distributions from Equity Investees.  Duke Energy considers dividends received from equity investees which do not exceed cumulative equity in earnings subsequent to the date of investment a return on investment and classifies these
amounts as operating activities within the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Cumulative dividends received in excess of cumulative equity in earnings subsequent to the date of investment are considered a return of investment and
are classified as investing activities within the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.       Dividend Restrictions and Unappropriated
Retained Earnings.  Duke Energy does not have any legal, regulatory or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders. As further described in Note 4, certain wholly-owned subsidiaries have restrictions on paying dividends or
otherwise advancing funds to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, an insignificant amount of Duke Energy s consolidated Retained Earnings balance represents undistributed earnings of equity method investments.       New Accounting Standards.  The following new accounting standards were adopted by Duke Energy during the year ended December 31, 2008 and the impact of
such adoption, if applicable, has been presented in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements:       SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements  (SFAS No. 157).  Refer to Note 9 for a discussion of Duke Energy s adoption of SFAS No. 157.       SFAS
No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities- including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159).  Refer to Note 9 for a discussion of Duke Energy s adoption of SFAS
No. 159.       FSP No. FIN 39-1 . Refer to  Accounting for Risk Management and Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments  above for
a discussion of Duke Energy s adoption of FSP No. FIN 39-1.       EITF Issue No. 06-11,  Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends
on Share-Based Payment Awards  (EITF 06-11) . In June 2007, the EITF reached a consensus that would require realized income tax benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents that are charged to retained earnings and paid to employees
for equity-classified nonvested equity shares, nonvested equity share units, and outstanding equity share options to be recognized as an increase to additional paid-in capital. In addition, EITF 06-11 requires that dividends on
equity-classified share-based payment awards be reallocated between retained earnings (for awards expected to vest) and compensation cost (for awards not expected to vest) each reporting period to reflect current forfeiture estimates. For Duke
Energy, EITF 06-11 has been applied prospectively to the income tax benefits of dividends on equity-classified employee share-based payment awards that are declared in fiscal years beginning January 1, 2008, as well as interim periods
within those fiscal years. The adoption of EITF 06-11 did not have a material impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.       FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,  Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interest in Variable Interest
Entities   (FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8). In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8, which amends SFAS No. 140,   Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities,   (SFAS No. 140) to require public entities to provide additional disclosures about transfers of financial assets and, FIN No. 46(R) ,  to require public enterprises to provide additional disclosures about their
involvement with variable interest entities. Additionally, this FSP requires certain disclosures to be provided by a public enterprise that is (a) a sponsor that has a variable interest in a variable interest entity and (b) an enterprise
that holds a significant variable interest in a qualifying special-purpose entity (SPE) but was not the transferor (nontransferor enterprise) of financial assets to the qualifying SPE. The disclosures required by this FSP are intended to provide
greater transparency to financial statement users about a transferor s continuing involvement with transferred financial assets and an enterprise s involvement with variable interest entities. The disclosure requirements of this FSP were
effective for Duke Energy beginning December 31, 2008. The adoption of FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 did not have any impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. See Note 23 for additional
information.         
   100   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              FSP EITF 99-20-1,  Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99-20  (FSP EITF 99-20-1).  In January
2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF 99-20-1, which amends EITF Issue No. 99-20,   Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continue to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized
Financial Assets ,  to achieve more consistent determinations of whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred for debt securities that are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets. FSP EITF 99-20-1 eliminates the
requirement that a holder s best estimate of cash flows be based upon those that a market participant would use and establishes that an other-than-temporary impairment on a debt security that is a beneficial interest in a securitized financial
asset would be recognized as a realized loss through earnings when it is probable that there has been an adverse change in the holder s estimated cash flows from the cash flows previously projected, which is consistent with the impairment model
is SFAS No. 115. FSP EITF 99-20-1 also retains and emphasizes the objective of an other-than-temporary impairment assessment and the related disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 115 and other related guidance. For Duke Energy, FSP EITF
99-20-1 was effective beginning December 15, 2008. The adoption of FSP EITF 99-20-1 did not have any impact on the carrying value of Duke Energy s note receivable from Cinergy Receivables, which is considered a retained beneficial interest
in a securitized financial asset. See Note 23 for additional information.      The following new accounting standards were adopted by Duke Energy during
the year ended December 31, 2007 and the impact of such adoption, if applicable, has been presented in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements:       SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140  (SFAS No. 155).  In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
which amends SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140. SFAS No. 155 allows financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for at fair value at acquisition, at issuance, or when a previously recognized financial instrument
is subject to a remeasurement (new basis) event, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, in cases in which a derivative would otherwise have to be bifurcated. SFAS No. 155 was effective for Duke Energy for all financial instruments acquired,
issued, or subject to remeasurement after January 1, 2007, and for certain hybrid financial instruments that had been bifurcated prior to the effective date, for which the effect is to be reported as a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning
retained earnings. The adoption of SFAS No. 155 did not have a material impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.       SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140  (SFAS No. 156).  In March
2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, which amends SFAS No. 140. SFAS No. 156 requires recognition of a servicing asset or liability when an entity enters into arrangements to service financial instruments in certain situations. Such
servicing assets or servicing liabilities are required to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. SFAS No. 156 also allows an entity to subsequently measure its servicing assets or servicing liabilities using either an amortization
method or a fair value method. SFAS No. 156 was effective for Duke Energy as of January 1, 2007, and must be applied prospectively, except that where an entity elects to remeasure separately recognized existing arrangements and reclassify
certain available-for-sale securities to trading securities, any effects must be reported as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. The adoption of SFAS No. 156 did not have a material impact on Duke Energy s consolidated
results of operations, cash flows or financial position.        SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  (SFAS No. 158) . In October 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, which changes the recognition and disclosure provisions and measurement
date requirements for an employer s accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. The recognition and disclosure provisions require an employer to (1) recognize the funded status of a benefit plan measured as
the difference between plan assets at fair value and the benefit obligation in its statement of financial position, (2) recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or
credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost, and (3) disclose in the notes to financial statements certain additional information. SFAS No. 158 does not change the amounts
recognized in the income statement as net periodic benefit cost. Duke Energy recognized the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans and provided the required additional disclosures as of December 31, 2006.
The adoption of SFAS No. 158 recognition and disclosure provisions resulted in an increase in total assets of approximately $211 million (consisting of an increase in regulatory assets of $595 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $144
million, offset by a decrease in pre-funded pension costs of $522 million and a decrease in intangible assets of $6 million), an increase in total liabilities of approximately $461 million and a decrease in AOCI, net of tax, of approximately $250
million as of December 31, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 did not have a material impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations or cash flows.          
   101   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Under the measurement date requirements of SFAS No. 158, an employer is required to measure defined benefit plan assets and
obligations as of the date of the employer s fiscal year-end statement of financial position (with limited exceptions). Historically, Duke Energy has measured its plan assets and obligations up to three months prior to the fiscal year-end, as
allowed under the authoritative accounting literature. Duke Energy adopted the change in measurement date effective January 1, 2007 by remeasuring plan assets and benefit obligations as of that date, pursuant to the transition requirements of
SFAS No. 158. See Note 22.       FIN 48 . In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, which provides guidance on accounting for income tax positions
about which Duke Energy has concluded there is a level of uncertainty with respect to the recognition of a tax benefit in Duke Energy s financial statements. FIN 48 prescribes the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to
meet. Tax positions are defined very broadly and include not only tax deductions and credits but also decisions not to file in a particular jurisdiction, as well as the taxability of transactions. Duke Energy adopted FIN 48 effective January 1,
2007. See Note 6 for additional information.       FSP No. FIN 48-1, Definition of  Settlement  in FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FSP No.
FIN 48-1).  In May, 2007, the FASB staff issued FSP No. FIN 48-1 which clarifies the conditions under FIN 48 that should be met for a tax position to be considered effectively settled with the taxing authority. Duke Energy s adoption of FIN
48 as of January 1, 2007 was consistent with the guidance in this FSP.       FSP No. FAS 123(R)-5,  Amendment of FASB Staff Position FAS
123(R)-1  (FSP No. FAS 123(R)-5) . In October 2006, the FASB staff issued FSP No. FAS 123(R)-5 to address whether a modification of an instrument in connection with an equity restructuring should be considered a modification for purposes of
applying FSP No. FAS 123(R)-1,   Classification and Measurement of Freestanding Financial Instruments Originally Issued in Exchange for Employee Services under FASB Statement No. 123(R) (FSP No. FAS 123(R)-1) .  In August 2005,
the FASB staff issued FSP FAS 123(R)-1 to defer indefinitely the effective date of paragraphs A230 A232 of SFAS No. 123(R), and thereby require entities to apply the recognition and measurement provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) throughout
the life of an instrument, unless the instrument is modified when the holder is no longer an employee. The recognition and measurement of an instrument that is modified when the holder is no longer an employee should be determined by other
applicable GAAP. FSP No. FAS 123(R)-5 addresses modifications of stock-based awards made in connection with an equity restructuring and clarifies that for instruments that were originally issued as employee compensation and then modified, and that
modification is made to the terms of the instrument solely to reflect an equity restructuring that occurs when the holders are no longer employees, no change in the recognition or the measurement (due to a change in classification) of those
instruments will result if certain conditions are met. This FSP was effective for Duke Energy as of January 1, 2007. As discussed in Note 21, effective with the spin-off of Spectra Energy on January 2, 2007, all previously granted Duke
Energy long-term incentive plan equity awards were modified to equitably adjust the awards. As the modifications to the equity awards were made solely to reflect the spin-off, no change in the recognition or the measurement (due to a change in
classification) of those instruments resulted.      The following new accounting standards were adopted by Duke Energy during the year ended
December 31, 2006 and the impact of such adoption, if applicable, has been presented in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements:       SFAS No. 123(R )   Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)) . In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), which replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting  for Stock-Based Compensation , 
and supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees .  SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be
recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. For Duke Energy, timing for implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) was January 1, 2006. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS No. 123 are no longer an
acceptable alternative. Instead, Duke Energy is required to determine an appropriate expense for stock options and record compensation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock options. Duke Energy implemented SFAS
No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which required Duke Energy to record compensation expense for all unvested awards beginning January 1, 2006.      Duke Energy currently also has retirement eligible employees with outstanding share-based payment awards (unvested stock awards, stock based performance awards and
phantom stock awards). Compensation cost related to those awards was previously expensed over the stated vesting period or until actual retirement occurred. Effective January 1, 2006, Duke Energy is required to recognize compensation cost for
new awards granted to employees over the requisite service period, which generally begins on the date the award is granted through the earlier of the date the award vests or the date the employee becomes retirement eligible. Share-based awards,
including stock options, granted to employees that are already retirement eligible are deemed to have vested immediately upon issuance, and therefore, compensation cost for those awards is recognized on the date such awards are granted.   
     
   102   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) did not have a material impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash
flows or financial position in 2006 based on awards outstanding as of the implementation date. However, the impact to Duke Energy in periods subsequent to adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will be largely dependent upon the nature of any new
share-based compensation awards issued to employees. See Note 21.       SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  (SAB No. 108) . In September 2006 the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued SAB No. 108, which provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the
carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current year misstatement. Traditionally, there have been two widely-recognized approaches for quantifying the effects of financial statement misstatements. The
income statement approach focuses primarily on the impact of a misstatement on the income statement including the reversing effect of prior year misstatements but its use can lead to the accumulation of misstatements in the balance sheet.
The balance sheet approach, on the other hand, focuses primarily on the effect of correcting the period-end balance sheet with less emphasis on the reversing effects of prior year errors on the income statement. The SEC staff believes that
registrants should quantify errors using both a balance sheet and an income statement approach (a  dual approach ) and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that, when all relevant quantitative and
qualitative factors are considered, is material.      SAB No. 108 was effective for Duke Energy s year ending December 31, 2006. SAB
No. 108 permits existing public companies to initially apply its provisions either by (i) restating prior financial statements as if the  dual approach  had always been used or (ii), under certain circumstances, recording the
cumulative effect of initially applying the  dual approach  as adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment recorded to the opening balance of retained earnings. Duke
Energy has historically used a dual approach for quantifying identified financial statement misstatements. Therefore, the adoption of SAB No. 108 did not have a material impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash
flows or financial position.      The following new accounting standards have been issued, but have not yet been adopted by Duke Energy as of
December 31, 2008:       SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS No. 141R).  In December 2007, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 141R, which replaces SFAS No. 141,   Business Combinations .  SFAS No. 141R retains the fundamental requirements in SFAS No. 141 that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business
combinations and that an acquirer be identified for each business combination. This statement also establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling (minority) interests in an acquiree, and any goodwill acquired in a business combination or gain recognized from a bargain purchase. For Duke Energy, SFAS No. 141R must be applied prospectively to
business combinations for which the acquisition date occurs on or after January 1, 2009. The impact to Duke Energy of applying SFAS No. 141R for periods subsequent to implementation will be dependent upon the nature of any transactions
within the scope of SFAS No. 141R. SFAS No. 141R changes the accounting for income taxes related to prior business combinations, such as Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy. Subsequent to the effective date of SFAS No. 141R, the
resolution of tax contingencies relating to Cinergy that existed as of the date of the merger will be required to be reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations instead of being reflected as an adjustment to the purchase price via an
adjustment to goodwill.       SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting
Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51  (SFAS No. 160).  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, which amends ARB No. 51,   Consolidated Financial Statements ,  to establish accounting and reporting
standards for the noncontrolling (minority) interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in a consolidated entity that
should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. This statement also changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts
attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. In addition, SFAS No. 160 establishes a single method of accounting for changes in a parent s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. For
Duke Energy, SFAS No. 160 is effective as of January 1, 2009, and must be applied prospectively, except for certain presentation and disclosure requirements which must be applied retrospectively. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 will
impact the presentation of noncontrolling interests in Duke Energy s Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, as well as the
calculation of Duke Energy s effective tax rate.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment to FASB Statement
No. 133  (SFAS No. 161).  In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, which amends and expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities prescribed by SFAS No. 133,   Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities .  SFAS No. 161 requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on
derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. Duke Energy will adopt SFAS No. 161 as of January 1, 2009 and SFAS No. 161 encourages, but does not require, comparative
disclosure for earlier periods at initial adoption. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not have any impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.       FSP No. APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  (FSP
APB 14-1).  In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP APB 14-1, which addresses the accounting for convertible debt securities that, upon conversion, may be settled by the issuer fully or partially in cash. FSP APB 14-1 does not change the accounting for
more traditional types of convertible debt securities that do not have a cash settlement feature and FSP APB 14-1 does not apply if, under existing GAAP for derivatives, the embedded conversion feature must be accounted for separately from the rest
of the instrument. For Duke Energy, FSP APB 14-1 is applicable as of January 1, 2009 and must be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented, even if the instrument has matured, has been converted, or has otherwise been extinguished
as of the effective date of FSP APB 14-1. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the impact of adopting FSP APB 14-1 on its historical results of operations as, in 2003, Duke Energy issued $770 million of convertible debt with a cash settlement
option that was fully converted to common stock during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007; however, Duke Energy does not anticipate the retrospective application of FSP APB 14-1 will have a material impact on Duke Energy s
historical results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Future impacts of FSP APB 14-1 will be determined by whether Duke Energy issues convertible debt with cash settlement options.       FSP EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities  (FSP EITF 03-6-1).  In
June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1 to address whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions may be participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing basic
EPS pursuant to the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128. The FASB concluded that rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) on unvested share-based payment awards that provide a noncontingent transfer of
value (such as a nonforfeitable right to receive cash when dividends are paid to common stockholders, irrespective of whether the award ultimately vests) to the holder of the share-based payment award constitute participation rights and, therefore,
should be included in the computation of basic EPS using the two-class method. Duke Energy issues certain share-based payment awards under which rights to dividends during the vesting period are nonforfeitable. For Duke Energy, FSP EITF 03-6-1 is
effective as of January 1, 2009 and all prior-period EPS data is required to be adjusted retrospectively to conform to the provisions of FSP EITF 03-6-1. Duke Energy does not currently anticipate the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 will have a
material impact on its calculated future or historical EPS amounts.       FSP FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosure about Postretirement
Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1).  In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1, which amends SFAS No. 132(R) to require more detailed disclosures about employers  plan assets, concentrations of risk within plan
assets, and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. Additionally, companies will be required to disclose their pension assets in a fashion consistent with SFAS No. 157 (i.e., Level 1, 2, and 3 of fair value
hierarchy) along with a roll-forward of the Level 3 values each year. For Duke Energy, FSP FAS 132(R)-1 is effective for Duke Energy s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The adoption of FSP FAS 132(R)-1 will not have any
impact on Duke Energy s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.             2. Business Segments       Duke Energy operates the following business segments, which are all considered reportable business segments
under SFAS No. 131: U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, Commercial Power and International Energy. There is no aggregation of operating segments within Duke Energy s reportable business segments. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent
was a reportable business segment of Duke Energy. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent is no longer considered an operating segment of Duke Energy as Duke Energy s chief operating decision maker no longer reviews Crescent s
operating results in order to make resource allocation decisions and evaluate its performance. Accordingly, the results of Crescent have been included in Other for all periods presented.         
   104   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Duke Energy s management believes these reportable business segments properly align the various operations of Duke Energy with
how the chief operating decision maker views the business. Duke Energy s chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information about each of these reportable business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate
performance. As discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses, which primarily consisted of Duke Energy s former Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy s
former Field Services business segment, which represented Duke Energy s 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream. Accordingly, results of operations for these former business segments are included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations,
net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006.      U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas generates,
transmits, distributes and sells electricity in central and western North Carolina, western South Carolina, central, north central and southern Indiana, and northern Kentucky. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas also transmits, and distributes
electricity in southwestern Ohio. Additionally, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke
Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana) and Duke Energy Kentucky. These electric and gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the NCUC, the Public Service Commission of South
Carolina (PSCSC), the PUCO, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC). Substantially all of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  operations are regulated and, accordingly, these operations
are accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 71.       Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale
marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these plants as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power s generation asset fleet consists of Duke Energy Ohio s regulated generation in Ohio
and the five Midwestern gas-fired non-regulated generation assets that were a portion of the former Duke Energy North America (DENA) operations. Commercial Power s assets, excluding wind energy generation assets, comprise approximately 7,550
net megawatts (MW) of power generation primarily located in the Midwestern United States. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with base-load and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural gas-fired
units. Most of the generation asset output in Ohio was contracted through the RSP through December 31, 2008. As discussed further in Note 1 and Note 4, beginning on December 17, 2008, Commercial Power reapplied the provisions of SFAS
No. 71 to certain portions of its operations due to the passing of SB 221 and the approval of the ESP. Commercial Power also develops and implements customized energy solutions. Through Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. and its affiliates
(DEGS), Commercial Power develops, owns and operates electric generation for large energy consumers, municipalities, utilities and industrial facilities. DEGS currently manages 6,300 megawatts of power generation at 21 facilities throughout the U.S.
In addition, DEGS engages in the development, construction and operation of wind energy projects. Currently, DEGS has approximately 370 net MW of wind energy generating capacity in commercial operation, approximately 150 MW of wind energy under
construction and more than 5,000 megawatts of wind energy projects in development.       International Energy operates and manages power generation
facilities and engages in sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas outside the U.S. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy International, LLC and its activities target power generation in Latin America. Additionally,
International Energy owns equity investments in National Methanol Company (NMC), located in Saudi Arabia, which is a leading regional producer of methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), and Attiki Gas Supply S.A. (Attiki), which is a
natural gas distributor located in Athens, Greece.      The remainder of Duke Energy s operations is presented as Other. While it is not considered a
business segment, Other primarily includes certain unallocated corporate costs, Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison), Duke Energy s wholly owned, captive insurance subsidiary, Crescent and DukeNet Communications, LLC (DukeNet) and related
telecommunications. Additionally, Other includes Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM), which management is currently in the process of winding down. Unallocated corporate costs include certain costs not allocable to Duke Energy s
reportable business segments, primarily governance costs, costs to achieve mergers and divestitures (such as the Cinergy merger and spin-off of Spectra) and costs associated with certain corporate severance programs. Bison s principal
activities as a captive insurance entity include the insurance and reinsurance of various business risks and losses, such as workers compensation, property, business interruption and general liability of subsidiaries and affiliates of Duke Energy.
On a limited basis, Bison also participates in reinsurance activities with certain third parties. Crescent develops and manages high-quality commercial, residential and multi-family real estate projects primarily in the Southeastern and Southwestern
United States. Some of these projects are developed and managed through joint ventures. Crescent also manages  legacy  land holdings in North Carolina and South Carolina. As  
       
   105   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 discussed further in Note 3, on September 7, 2006, Duke Energy deconsolidated Crescent due to a reduction in ownership and its inability to exercise control over
Crescent and has accounted for Crescent as an equity method investment since the date of deconsolidation. See Note 12 for discussion of the suspension of the application of the equity method of accounting related to Duke Energy s investment in
Crescent beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. DukeNet develops, owns and operates a fiber optic communications network, primarily in the Carolinas, serving wireless, local and long-distance communications companies, internet service providers
and other businesses and organizations.      Duke Energy s reportable business segments offer different products and services or operate under
different competitive environments and are managed separately. Accounting policies for Duke Energy s segments are the same as those described in Note 1. Management evaluates segment performance based on earnings before interest and taxes from
continuing operations, after deducting minority interest expense related to those profits (EBIT). On a segment basis, EBIT excludes discontinued operations, represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before
deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Segment EBIT includes transactions between reportable segments.      Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed centrally by Duke Energy, so the associated interest and dividend income on those balances, as well as realized and unrealized gains and losses from foreign currency
remeasurement and transactions, are excluded from the segments  EBIT.         
   106   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Business Segment Data (a)      
       
   107   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

(a)  
  Segment results exclude results of entities classified as discontinued operations.     

(b)  
  Includes assets held for sale and assets of entities in discontinued operations. See Note 12 for description and carrying value of investments accounted for under the equity method of
accounting within each segment.     

(c)  
  Other within interest income and other includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and additional minority interest expense not allocated to the segment results.

(d)  
  In September 2006, Duke Energy completed a joint venture transaction of Crescent (see Note 3). As a result, Other includes the results of Crescent as a consolidated entity for periods prior
to September 7, 2006 and as an equity method investment for periods subsequent to September 7, 2006. As discussed in Note 12, Duke Energy suspended accounting for Crescent as an equity method investment beginning in the fourth quarter of
2008.     

(e)  
  Capital expenditures for Crescent s residential real estate are included in operating cash flows and were $322 million for the period from January 1, 2006 through the date of
deconsolidation of Crescent (September 7, 2006).     

(f)  
  Both the former Natural Gas Transmission business segment and former Field Services business segment were included in the spin-off of Spectra Energy on January 2, 2007. The results of
operations for these former business segments are presented as a component of Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006.     
         Geographic Data    
           3. Acquisitions and Dispositions of
Businesses and Sales of Other Assets        Acquisitions.  Duke Energy consolidates assets and liabilities from acquisitions as of the purchase
date, and includes earnings from acquisitions in consolidated earnings after the purchase date. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at estimated fair values on the purchase date. The purchase price minus the estimated fair value of
the acquired tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities meeting the definition of a business as defined in EITF Issue No. 98-3,   Determining Whether a Nonmonetary Transaction Involves Receipt of Productive Assets or of
a Business   is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price may be adjusted if additional, requested information is received during the allocation period, which generally does not exceed one year from the consummation date;
however, it may be longer for certain income tax items. As discussed in Note 1, effective January 1, 2009, Duke Energy adopted SFAS No. 141(R) and will apply the provisions of this standard to any future acquisitions.       Cinergy Merger . On April 3, 2006, the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy was consummated (see Note 1 for additional information). For accounting
purposes, the effective date of the merger was April 1, 2006. The merger combined the Duke Energy and Cinergy regulated franchises as well as deregulated generation in the Midwestern United States. The merger was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting with Duke Energy treated as the acquirer for accounting purposes. As a result, the assets and liabilities of Cinergy were recorded at their respective fair values as of April 3, 2006 and the results of
Cinergy s operations are included in the Duke Energy consolidated financial statements beginning as of the effective date of the merger.      Based
on the market price of Duke Energy common stock during the period including the two trading days before through the two trading days after May 9, 2005, the date Duke Energy and Cinergy announced the merger, the transaction was valued at
approximately $9.1 billion and resulted in goodwill of approximately $4.5 billion, none of which was deductible for tax purposes. Approximately $135 million of the goodwill was allocated to CMT, which was sold in October 2006, as described further
in Note 14.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The following unaudited consolidated pro forma financial results are presented as if the Cinergy merger had occurred at the beginning
of the year ended December 31, 2006:             Unaudited Consolidated Pro Forma Results
   
    Pro forma results for the year ended December 31, 2006 include approximately $128 million of charges
related to costs to achieve the merger and related synergies, which are recorded within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Pro forma results for the year ended December 31, 2006 do not reflect the pro forma effects
of any significant transactions completed by Duke Energy that are not reflected in the historical amounts other than the merger with Cinergy.        Other Acquisitions.  On September 30, 2008, Duke Energy completed the purchase of a portion of Saluda River Electric Cooperative, Inc. s (Saluda) ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. Under the terms of the
agreement, Duke Energy paid approximately $150 million for the additional ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. Following the closing of the transaction, Duke Energy owns approximately 19% of the Catawba Nuclear Station. No goodwill was
recorded as a result of this transaction. As the acquisition occurred on September 30, 2008, Duke Energy began recording earnings associated with the additional acquired interest beginning October 1, 2008. See Note 4 for discussion of Duke
Energy s filing of a petition with the PSCSC requesting an accounting order to defer incremental costs incurred from the purchase of this additional ownership interest.       In June 2008, Duke Energy announced the execution of a definitive agreement to acquire Catamount Energy Corporation (Catamount) from Diamond Castle Partners.
Catamount is a leading wind power company located in Rutland, Vermont. The acquisition closed in September 2008 and expanded Duke Energy s renewable energy portfolio to include over 300 MW of power generating assets, including 283 net MW in the
Sweetwater wind power facility in West Texas, and 20 net MW of biomass-fueled cogeneration in New England. The acquisition also included approximately 1,750 MW of wind assets with the potential for development in the U.S. and United Kingdom. This
transaction resulted in a purchase price of approximately $245 million plus the assumption of approximately $80 million of debt. The purchase accounting entries recorded upon acquisition primarily consisted of approximately $190 million of equity
method investments, approximately $117 million of intangible assets related to wind development rights, approximately $70 million of goodwill, none of which is deductible for tax purposes, and approximately $80 million of debt. See Note 11 for
further discussion of the goodwill and intangible assets recorded as a result of this transaction.      On February 4, 2009, Duke Energy completed
the sale of Mark Hill Wind Power Ltd., which was a United Kingdom wind project acquired in the Catamount acquisition. No gain or loss was recognized on the sale. Additionally, Duke Energy has entered into an agreement to sell another United Kingdom
wind project acquired in the Catamount acquisition. This transaction is expected to close in 2009. No gain or loss is expected to be recognized on the sale. As these projects do not meet the definition of a disposal group as defined by SFAS
No. 144, these projects are not reflected as held-for-sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008.      In May 2007, Duke
Energy acquired the wind power development assets of Energy Investor Funds from Tierra Energy. The purchase included more than 1,000 MW of wind assets in various stages of development in the Western and Southwestern U.S. and supports Duke
Energy s strategy to increase its investment in renewable energy. A significant portion of the purchase price was for intangible assets. Three of the development projects, totaling approximately 240 MW, are located in Texas and Wyoming. Two of
these projects went into commercial operation during 2008, with the other project anticipated to be in commercial operation in 2009.         
   109   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             During the first quarter of 2006, International Energy closed on two transactions which resulted in the acquisition of an additional
27% interest in the Aguaytia Integrated Energy Project (Aguaytia), located in Peru, for approximately $31 million (approximately $18 million net of cash acquired). In December 2007, International Energy closed on a transaction to acquire an
additional 10% interest in Aguaytia for approximately $16 million, which consisted of approximately $8 million of cash and a short-term note payable of approximately $8 million. The acquisitions during 2006 increased International Energy s
ownership in Aguaytia to 66% and resulted in Duke Energy accounting for Aguaytia as a consolidated entity. Prior to the acquisition of the additional interest in 2006, Aguaytia was accounted for as an equity method investment. The December 2007
acquisition of an additional interest in Aguaytia increased Duke Energy s ownership interest to 76% at December 31, 2007. The project s scope includes the production and processing of natural gas, sale of liquefied petroleum gas and
natural gas liquids (NGL) and the generation, transmission and sale of electricity from a 177 MW power plant. No goodwill was recorded in connection with these transactions.      In the fourth quarter of 2006, Duke Energy acquired an 825 MW power plant located in Rockingham County, North Carolina, from Dynegy for approximately $195 million.
The Rockingham plant is a peaking power plant used during times of high electricity demand, generally in the winter and summer months and consists of five 165 MW combustion turbine units capable of using either natural gas or oil to operate. The
acquisition is consistent with Duke Energy s plan to meet customers  electric needs for the foreseeable future. The transaction required approvals by the NCUC, the FERC and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC). No goodwill was recorded
as a result of this acquisition.      The pro forma results of operations for Duke Energy as if those acquisitions discussed above (other than the Cinergy
merger) which closed prior to December 31, 2008 occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented do not materially differ from reported results.      See Note 14 for acquisitions related to discontinued operations.       Dispositions.  In December 2006, Duke Energy Indiana agreed to sell
one unit of its Wabash River Power Station (Unit 1) to Wabash Valley Power Association Inc. (WVPA). The sale was approved by the IURC, the FERC, the FTC and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) during 2007. On December 31, 2007, Duke Energy
Indiana received proceeds of approximately $114 million, which was equivalent to the net book value of Unit 1 at the time of sale. Since, pursuant to the terms of the purchase and sale agreement, the effective date of the sale was January 1,
2008, the assets of Unit 1 were reflected as Assets Held for Sale within Investments and Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007 and a corresponding liability equal to the cash received was included in Liabilities
Associated with Assets Held for Sale within Current Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007. Since the sales price was equal to the net book value of Unit 1 at the transaction date, no gain or loss was recognized on
the sale. The sale was completed on January 1, 2008.      On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses.
See Note 1 and Note 14 for additional information. Additionally, see Note 14 for dispositions related to discontinued operations.       Other Asset
Sales.  For the year ended December 31, 2008, the sale of other assets resulted in approximately $87 million in proceeds and net pre-tax gains of approximately $69 million, which is recorded in Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and
Other, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These gains primarily relate to Commercial Power s sales of zero cost basis emission allowances.      For the year ended December 31, 2007, the sale of other assets resulted in approximately $32 million in proceeds and net pre-tax losses of approximately $5 million recorded in Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and
Other, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These losses primarily relate to Commercial Power s sales of emission allowances that were written up to fair value in purchase accounting in connection with Duke Energy s merger
with Cinergy in April 2006.      For the year ended December 31, 2006, the sale of other assets and businesses resulted in approximately $2 billion
in proceeds and net pre-tax gains of approximately $223 million recorded in Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Proceeds and pre-tax gains during 2006 relate primarily to transactions
related to Crescent and Commercial Power as discussed further below.      On September 7, 2006, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy
closed an agreement to create the Crescent JV with Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V U.S., L.P. (MSREF) and other affiliated funds controlled by Morgan Stanley (collectively the MS Members). Under the agreement, the Duke Energy subsidiary
contributed all of the membership interests in Crescent, which had an enterprise value of approximately $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2005, to a newly-formed joint venture. The enterprise value was determined primarily by discounted cash flow
analyses, but also incorporated multiple-to-book value approaches, as well as per acre valu- 
       
   110   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 ations for certain types of properties. In conjunction with the formation of the Crescent JV, the joint venture, Crescent and Crescent s subsidiaries entered into
a credit agreement with third party lenders under which Crescent borrowed approximately $1.21 billion, net of transaction costs, of which approximately $1.19 billion was immediately distributed to Duke Energy. These proceeds were classified as
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt within Financing Activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Immediately following the debt transaction, the MS Members collectively acquired a 49% membership interest in the Crescent JV from
Duke Energy for a purchase price of approximately $415 million, which represented 50% of the fair value of the net assets of Crescent based on a $2.1 billion enterprise value of Crescent less debt of approximately $1.3 billion. A 2% interest in the
Crescent JV was also issued by the joint venture to the President and Chief Executive Officer of Crescent, which is subject to forfeiture if the executive voluntarily leaves the employment of the Crescent JV within a three-year period. Additionally,
this 2% interest can be put back to the Crescent JV after three years, or possibly earlier upon the occurrence of certain events, at an amount equal to 2% of the fair value of the Crescent JV s equity as of the put date. Therefore, the Crescent
JV has been accruing this obligation related to the put as a liability over the three-year forfeiture period. Accordingly, Duke Energy has an effective 50% ownership in the equity of Crescent JV for financial reporting purposes. Since, subsequent to
this transaction, Duke Energy no longer controlled the Crescent JV, Duke Energy deconsolidated its investment in Crescent as of the transaction date and subsequently accounted for its investment in the Crescent JV under the equity method of
accounting. See Note 12 for discussion surrounding Duke Energy suspending the equity method of accounting for its investment in Crescent beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008.      Immediately prior to the Crescent JV transaction, Duke Energy s basis in 100% of Crescent s net assets was approximately $340 million. As Duke Energy
received proceeds from the sale of approximately $415 million as compared to the approximate $170 million book basis in the 50% interest in the underlying net assets of Crescent, Duke Energy recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately
$246 million, which has been classified as a component of Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. In accordance with appropriate
accounting literature, including APB Opinion No. 18,   The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock   (APB 18) and AICPA Statement of Position 78-9,   Accounting for Investments in Real Estate
Ventures,   Duke Energy concluded that recognition of the gain was appropriate as the cash received of approximately $415 million exceeded the economic gain of approximately $246 million and there was no significant uncertainties regarding
the realization of the gain. Specifically, Duke Energy is not committed or required to make future capital contributions to Crescent. Proceeds of approximately $380 million, which represents cash received from the MS Members, net of cash held by
Crescent as of the transaction date, were classified as Net proceeds from the sales of other assets, and sales of and collections on notes receivable within Investing Activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.      For the period from January 1, 2006 to September 7, 2006, Crescent commercial and multi-family real estate sales resulted in $254 million of proceeds and
$201 million of net pre-tax gains recorded in Gains on Sales of Investments in Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Sales primarily consisted of two office buildings at Potomac Yard in Washington,
D.C. for a pre-tax gain of $81 million and land at Lake Keowee in Northwestern South Carolina for a pre-tax gain of $52 million, as well as several other large land tract sales.      During 2006, Commercial Power s sale of emission allowances resulted in proceeds of $136 million and pre-tax losses on sales of approximately $29 million,
which was recorded in Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These losses primarily relate to Commercial Power s sales of emission allowances that were written up to fair value in
purchase accounting in connection with Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy in April 2006.      The transactions and amounts discussed above exclude
assets that were held for sale and reflected in discontinued operations, both of which are discussed in Note 14.         
   111   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              4. Regulatory Matters         Regulatory Assets and
Liabilities.         Substantially all of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  operations and certain portions of Commercial Power s
operations apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71. Accordingly, these businesses record assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under GAAP for non-regulated entities. See Note 1 for
further information.              Duke Energy s Regulatory Assets and
Liabilities:          

(a)  
  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from rate base unless otherwise noted.     

(b)  
  Recovery/Refund period currently unknown.     

(c)  
  Included in rate base.     

(d)  
  Included in Other Regulatory Assets and Deferred Debits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(e)  
  Included in Other Current Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(f)  
  Included in Accounts Receivable and Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(g)  
  North Carolina portion of approximately $10 million to be recovered in rates through 2012. See  Duke Energy Carolinas Rate Case  discussion below. South Carolina portion to be
recovered through future rates, although ultimate recovery period is currently unknown.     

(h)  
  Included in Other Current Assets and Other Regulatory Assets and Deferred Debits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(i)  
  Included in Other Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(j)  
  Earns a negative return.     

(k)  
  Included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(l)  
  Included in Accounts Payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(m)  
  Included in Accounts Payable and Other Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(n)  
  Refund period will be determined by the volume of sales as U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is currently refunding the liability through retail sales.     

(o)  
  Recovery/refund is over the life of the associated asset or liability.           
   112   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          

(p)  
  Incurred costs were deferred and are being recovered in rates. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is currently over-recovered for these costs in the South Carolina jurisdiction. Refund period
is dependent on volume of sales and cost incurrence.     

(q)  
  Liability is extinguished over the lives of the associated assets.     

(r)  
  Approximately $95 million of the balance at December 31, 2008 relates to mark-to-market deferrals associated with open hedge positions at Commercial Power as a result of the
reapplication of SFAS No. 71.     

(s)  
  Represents the latest recovery period across all jurisdictions in which Duke Energy operates. Regulatory asset and liability balances may be collected or refunded sooner than the indicated
date in certain jurisdictions.                Regulatory Merger
Approvals   .            On April 3, 2006, the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy was consummated to create a newly-formed
company, Duke Energy Holding Corp. (subsequently renamed Duke Energy Corporation). As a condition to the merger approval, the PUCO, the KPSC, the PSCSC and the NCUC required that certain merger related savings be shared with consumers in Ohio,
Kentucky, South Carolina, and North Carolina, respectively. The commissions also required Duke Energy Holding Corp., Cinergy, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and/or Duke Energy Carolinas to meet additional conditions. Although the merger
itself was not subject to approval by the IURC, the IURC approved certain affiliate agreements in connection with the merger subject to similar conditions. Key elements of these conditions include:   

The PUCO required that Duke Energy Ohio provide (i) a rate reduction of approximately $15 million for one year to facilitate economic development in a time of increasing
rates and market prices and (ii) a reduction of approximately $21 million to its gas and electric consumers in Ohio for one year, with both credits beginning January 1, 2006. During the first quarter of 2007, Duke Energy Ohio completed its
merger related rate reductions and filed a report with the PUCO to terminate the merger credit riders. Approximately $2 million and $34 million of these rate reductions were passed through to customers during the years ended December 31, 2007
and 2006, respectively.      

The KPSC required that Duke Energy Kentucky provide $8 million in rate reductions to its customers over five years, ending when new rates are established in the next rate
case after January 1, 2008. Approximately $2 million of the rate reduction was passed through to customers during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      

The PSCSC required that Duke Energy Carolinas provide a $40 million rate reduction for one year and a three-year extension to the Bulk Power Marketing (BPM) profit sharing
arrangement. The rate reduction ended May 31, 2007. Approximately $16 million and $23 million of the rate reduction was passed through to customers during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The NCUC required that Duke Energy Carolinas provide (i) a rate reduction of approximately $118 million for its North Carolina customers through a credit rider to
existing base rates for a one-year period following the close of the merger and (ii) $12 million to support various low income, environmental, economic development and educationally beneficial programs, the cost of which was incurred in the
second quarter of 2006. The rate reduction ended June 30, 2007. Approximately $63 million and $54 million of the rate reduction was passed through to customers during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

In its order approving Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy, the NCUC stated that the merger will result in a significant change in Duke Energy s organizational
structure which constitutes a compelling factor that warrants a general rate review. Therefore, as a condition of its merger approval and no later than June 1, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas was required to file a general rate case or demonstrate
that Duke Energy Carolinas  existing rates and charges should not be changed (see discussion under  Duke Energy Carolinas  2007 Rate Case  below).      

The IURC required that Duke Energy Indiana provide a rate reduction of $40 million to its customers over a one year period and $5 million over a five year period for
low-income energy assistance and clean coal technology. In April 2006, Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, Inc., an intervenor in the merger proceeding, filed a Verified Petition for Rehearing and Reconsideration claiming that Duke Energy Indiana
should be ordered to provide an additional $5 million in rate reduction to customers to be consistent with the terms of the NCUC s order approving the merger. In May 2006, the IURC denied the petition for rehearing and reconsideration. As of
April 30, 2007, Duke Energy Indiana had completed its merger related reductions and filed a notice with the IURC to terminate the merger credit rider. Approximately $13 million and $27 million of the rate reduction was passed through to
customers during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      

The FERC approved the merger without conditions.            
   113   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)               Restrictions on the Ability of Certain Subsidiaries to Make Dividends, Advances and Loans to Duke Energy Corporation.   As
discussed above, on April 3, 2006, the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy was consummated. As a condition to the merger approval, the PUCO, the KPSC, the PSCSC, the IURC and the NCUC imposed conditions (the Merger Conditions) on the ability
of Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana to transfer funds to Duke Energy through loans or advances, as well as restricted amounts available to pay dividends to Duke Energy. Duke Energy s public
utility subsidiaries may not transfer funds to the parent through intercompany loans or advances; however, certain subsidiaries may transfer funds to the parent by obtaining approval of the respective state regulatory commissions. Additionally, the
Merger Conditions imposed the following restrictions on the ability of the public utility subsidiaries to pay cash dividends:       Duke Energy
Carolinas . Under the Merger Conditions, Duke Energy Carolinas must limit cumulative distributions to Duke Energy Corporation subsequent to the merger to (i) the amount of retained earnings on the day prior to the closing of the merger, plus
(ii) any future earnings recorded by Duke Energy Carolinas subsequent to the merger.       Duke Energy Ohio . Under the Merger Conditions, Duke
Energy Ohio will not declare and pay dividends out of capital or unearned surplus without the prior authorization of the PUCO.       Duke Energy
Kentucky . Under the Merger Conditions, Duke Energy Kentucky is required to pay dividends solely out of retained earnings and to maintain a minimum of 35% equity in its capital structure.       Duke Energy Indiana . Under the Merger Conditions, Duke Energy Indiana shall limit cumulative distributions paid subsequent to the Duke Energy-Cinergy merger
to (i) the amount of retained earnings on the day prior to the closing of the merger plus (ii) any future earnings recorded by Duke Energy Indiana subsequent to the merger. In addition, Duke Energy Indiana will not declare and pay
dividends out of capital or unearned surplus without prior authorization of the IURC.      Additionally, certain other subsidiaries of Duke Energy have
restrictions on their ability to dividend, loan or advance funds to Duke Energy due to specific legal or regulatory restrictions, including, but not limited to, minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements.       At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy s consolidated subsidiaries had restricted net assets of approximately $10.7 billion that may not be transferred to Duke
Energy without appropriate approval based on the aforementioned merger conditions.              U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas.         Rate Related Information   .  The NCUC, PSCSC, IURC and KPSC approve rates for
retail electric and gas services within their states. The PUCO approves rates for retail gas and electric service within Ohio, except that non-regulated sellers of gas and electric generation also are allowed to operate in Ohio (see  Commercial
Power  below). The FERC approves rates for electric sales to wholesale customers served under cost-based rates.       Used Nuclear Fuel.  Under
provisions of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Duke Energy contracted with the Department of Energy (DOE) for the disposal of used nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin accepting used nuclear fuel on January 31, 1998, the date specified by
the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and in Duke Energy s contract with the DOE. Duke Energy will continue to safely manage its used nuclear fuel until the DOE accepts it. In 1998, Duke Energy filed a claim with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims against
the DOE related to the DOE s failure to accept commercial used nuclear fuel by the required date. Damages claimed in the lawsuit were based upon Duke Energy s costs incurred as a result of the DOE s partial material breach of its
contract, including the cost of securing additional used fuel storage capacity. Payments made to the DOE for expected future disposal costs are based on nuclear output and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as Fuel Used in
Electric Generation and Purchased Power. On March 5, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas and the DOJ reached a settlement resolving Duke Energy s used nuclear fuel litigation against the DOE. The agreement provided for an initial payment to Duke
Energy of approximately $56 million for certain storage costs incurred through July 31, 2005, with additional amounts reimbursed annually for future storage costs. The settlement agreement resulted in a pre-tax earnings impact of approximately
$26 million during the year ended December 31, 2007, of which approximately $19 million and $7 million were recorded as an offset to Fuel Used in Electric Generation and Purchased Power, and Operation, Maintenance and Other, respectively,
in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, with the remaining impact reflected within Inventory and Property, Plant and Equipment in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.       
  
   114   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)               North Carolina Clean Air Act Compliance   .  In 2002, the
state of North Carolina passed clean air legislation that froze electric utility rates from June 20, 2002 to December 31, 2007 (rate freeze period), subject to certain conditions, in order for North Carolina electric utilities, including
Duke Energy Carolinas, to significantly reduce emissions of SO 2  and NO x  from coal-fired power plants in the state. The legislation allowed electric utilities, including Duke Energy Carolinas, to accelerate the recovery of
compliance costs by amortizing them over seven years (2003-2009). The legislation provided for significant flexibility in the amount of annual amortization recorded, allowing utilities to vary the amount amortized, within limits, although the
legislation does require that a minimum of 70% of the originally estimated total cost of $1.5 billion be amortized within the rate freeze period (2002 to 2007). As discussed further below, under the Partial Settlement of the Duke Energy
Carolinas  2007 rate case, effective January 1, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas discontinued the amortization of environmental compliance costs incurred pursuant to the North Carolina clean air legislation and began capitalizing all
environmental compliance costs above the cumulative amortization charge of $1.05 billion recorded by Duke Energy Carolinas associated with the North Carolina clean air legislation from inception through December 31, 2007. Of this amount, Duke
Energy Carolinas  recorded amortization expense related to this clean air legislation of approximately $187 million and $225 million during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, cumulative
expenditures totaled approximately $1,601 million, with approximately $355 million, $418 million and $403 million incurred during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which are included within capital
expenditures in Net Cash Used In Investing Activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In filings with the NCUC, Duke Energy Carolinas estimated the costs to comply with the legislation as approximately $1.8 billion (excluding any
AFUDC). Actual costs may be higher or lower than the estimate based on changes in construction costs and Duke Energy Carolinas  continuing analysis of its overall environmental compliance plan. As required by the legislation, the NCUC
considered the reasonableness of Duke Energy Carolinas  environmental compliance plan and the method for recovery of the remaining costs in a proceeding it initiated and consolidated with a review of Duke Energy Carolinas  2007 base rates
(see  Duke Energy Carolinas  2007 Rate Case  below). Additionally, federal and state environmental regulations, including, among other things, the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), (see Note 18), and a likely federal mercury rule,
could result in additional costs to reduce emissions from Duke Energy s coal-fired power plants.        Duke Energy Carolinas  2007 Rate
Case  . In June 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC seeking authority to increase its rates and charges for electric service in North Carolina effective January 1, 2008. This application complied with a
condition imposed by the NCUC in approving the Cinergy merger. On October 5, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an Agreement and Stipulation of Partial Settlement (Partial Settlement) among Duke Energy Carolinas, the North Carolina Public Staff,
the North Carolina Attorney General s Office, Carolina Utility Customers Association Inc., Carolina Industrial Group for Fair Utility Rates III and Wal-Mart Stores East LP, for consideration by the NCUC. The Partial Settlement, which included
all parties to the case, reflected agreements on all but a few issues in these matters, including two significant issues. The two significant issues related to the treatment of ongoing merger cost savings resulting from the Cinergy merger and the
proposed amortization of Duke Energy Carolinas  development costs related to GridSouth Transco, LLC (GridSouth), a RTO planned by Duke Energy Carolinas and other utility companies as a result of previous FERC rulemakings, which was suspended in
2002 and discontinued in 2005 as a result of regulatory uncertainty. The Partial Settlement and the remaining disputed issues were presented to the NCUC for a ruling.      The Partial Settlement reflected an agreed to reduction in net revenues and pre-tax cash flows of approximately $210 million and corresponding rate reductions of 12.7% to the industrial class, 5.05% 7.34% to the general
class and 3.85% to the residential class of customers with an effective date of January 1, 2008. Under the Partial Settlement, effective January 1, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas discontinued the amortization of the environmental compliance
costs pursuant to North Carolina clean air legislation discussed above and began capitalizing all environmental compliance costs above the cumulative amortization charge of $1.05 billion as of December 31, 2007. Over the past five years, the
average annual clean air amortization was $210 million. The Partial Settlement was designed to enable Duke Energy Carolinas to earn a rate of return of 8.57% on a North Carolina retail jurisdictional rate base and an 11% return on the common equity
component of the approved capital structure, which consists of 47% debt and 53% common equity. As part of the settlement, Duke Energy Carolinas agreed to alter the then existing BPM profit sharing arrangement that included a provision to share 50%
of the North Carolina retail allocation of the profits from certain wholesale sales of bulk power from Duke Energy Carolinas  generating units at market based rates. The Partial Settlement provided for Duke Energy Carolinas to share 90% of the
North Carolina retail allocation of the profits from BPM transactions beginning January 1, 2008.      The NCUC issued its Order Approving Stipulation
and Deciding Non-Settled Issues (Order) on December 20, 2007. The NCUC approved the Partial Settlement in its entirety. The merger savings rider and GridSouth cost matters are discussed in detail below. For the  
       
   115   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 remaining non-settled issues, the NCUC decided in Duke Energy Carolinas  favor. With respect to the merger savings rider and GridSouth cost matters, the Order
required that Duke Energy Carolinas  test period for operating costs reflect an annualized level of the merger cost savings actually experienced in the test period in keeping with traditional principles of rate making. The NCUC explained that
because rates should be designed to recover a reasonable and prudent level of ongoing expenses, Duke Energy Carolinas  annual cost of service and revenue requirement should reflect, as closely as possible, Duke Energy Carolinas  actual
costs. However, the NCUC recognized that its treatment of merger savings would not produce a fair result. Therefore, the NCUC preliminarily concluded that it would reconsider certain language in its 2006 merger order in order to allow it to
authorize a 12-month increment rider, beginning January 2008, of approximately $80 million designed to provide a more equitable sharing of the actual merger savings achieved on an ongoing basis. Additionally, the NCUC concluded that approximately
$30 million of costs incurred through June 2002 in connection with GridSouth and deferred by Duke Energy Carolinas, were reasonable and prudent and approved a ten-year amortization, retroactive to June 2002. As a result of the retroactive impact of
the Order, Duke Energy Carolinas recorded an approximate $17 million charge to write-off a portion of the GridSouth costs in the fourth quarter of 2007. The NCUC did not allow Duke Energy Carolinas a return on the GridSouth investments. As a result
of its decision on the non-settled issues, the NCUC ordered an additional reduction in annual revenues of approximately $54 million, offset by its preliminary authorization of a 12-month, $80 million increment rider, as discussed above. The Order
ultimately resulted in an overall average rate decrease of 5% in 2008, increasing to 7% upon expiration of this one-time rate rider. On February 18, 2008, the NCUC issued an order confirming their preliminary conclusion regarding the merger
savings rider and the $80 million increment rider. Duke Energy Carolinas implemented the rate rider effective January 1, 2008 and terminated the rider effective January 1, 2009.      On December 12, 2007, the PSCSC directed the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff (ORS) to provide a written report concerning the NCUC s resolution
of Duke Energy Carolinas  rate application and its relevance to Duke Energy Carolinas  rates in South Carolina. On January 31, 2008, the ORS filed its report with the PSCSC, which concluded that the outcome of the North Carolina rate
case had no bearing on Duke Energy Carolinas  rates in South Carolina. The PSCSC took no action with respect to the report filed by the ORS.       At the request of the NCUC, the Public Staff performed a review of Duke Energy Carolinas  pension and other post-retirement benefit plan costs, as well as Duke Energy s funding of the plans. The Public Staff filed its report on
February 23, 2009 recommending no change in Duke Energy Carolinas  methodology for expensing pension and other post-retirement benefit costs.         Duke Energy Ohio Electric Rate Filings   .  Duke Energy Ohio operated under a RSP, a market-based standard service offer approved by the PUCO in November 2004, from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008. In
March 2005, the Office of the Ohio Consumers  Counsel (OCC) appealed the PUCO s approval of the RSP to the Supreme Court of Ohio, which issued its decision in November 2006. It upheld the RSP in virtually every respect but remanded to the
PUCO on two issues. The Supreme Court of Ohio ordered the PUCO to support a certain portion of its order with reasoning and record evidence and to require Duke Energy Ohio to disclose certain confidential commercial agreements with other parties
previously requested by the OCC. Duke Energy Ohio has complied with the disclosure order.      In October 2007, the PUCO issued its ruling affirming the
RSP, with certain modifications, and maintained the then current price. The ruling provided for continuation of the existing rate components, including the recovery of costs related to new pollution control equipment and capacity costs associated
with power purchase contracts to meet customer demand, but provided customers an enhanced opportunity to avoid certain pricing components if they are served by a competitive supplier. The ruling also attempted to modify the statutory requirement
that Duke Energy Ohio transfer its generating assets to an exempt wholesale generator (EWG) and ordered Duke Energy Ohio to retain ownership for the remainder of the RSP period. The ruling also incorrectly implied that Duke Energy Ohio s
non-residential regulatory transition charge (RTC) will terminate at the end of 2008. On November 23, 2007, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application for rehearing on the portions of the PUCO s ruling relating to whether certain pricing
components may be avoided by customers, the right to transfer generating assets, and the termination date of the RTC. On December 19, 2007, the PUCO issued its Entry on Rehearing granting in part and denying in part Duke Energy Ohio s
Application for Rehearing. Among other things, the PUCO modified and clarified the applicability of various rate riders during customer shopping situations. It also clarified that the residential RTC terminates at the end of 2008 and that the
non-residential RTC terminates at the end of 2010 and agreed to give further consideration to whether Duke Energy Ohio may transfer its generating assets to an EWG.      On February 15, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed a notice of appeal with the Ohio Supreme Court challenging a portion of the PUCO s decision on remand regarding Duke Energy Ohio s RSP. The October 2007 order permits
non-residential customers to avoid certain charges associated with the costs of Duke Energy Ohio standing ready to serve such customers if they return after being served by  
       
   116   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             
 another supplier. Duke Energy Ohio believes the PUCO exceeded its authority in modifying the charges that may be avoided, resulting in Duke Energy Ohio having to
subsidize Ohio s competitive electric market. Duke Energy Ohio asked the Ohio Supreme Court to reverse the PUCO ruling and require that non-residential customers pay the charges associated with Duke Energy Ohio standing ready to serve them
should they return from a competitive supplier. On March 28, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio voluntarily withdrew its appeal. The OCC filed a notice of appeal challenging the PUCO s October 2007 decision as unlawful and unreasonable. The OCC and
Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy (OPAE) also filed appeals from the PUCO s November 20, 2007 order approving Duke Energy Ohio s RSP riders. Duke Energy Ohio intervened in each appeal. Pending the Ohio Supreme Court s
consideration of its initial appeal, the OCC requested that the PUCO stay implementation of the Infrastructure Maintenance Fund charge to be collected from customers approved in the October 2007 order. The Commission denied the OCC s request
and the OCC filed a similar request with the Ohio Supreme Court. On July 9, 2008, the court denied the OCC s request to stay implementation of the Infrastructure Maintenance Fund. On April 30, 2008, the Ohio Supreme Court granted Duke
Energy Ohio s motion to intervene in the OCC s appeal. Oral arguments were conducted on November 18, 2008. On January 2, 2009, the PUCO filed a motion to dismiss the action as moot. The PUCO argued that the rates at issue in
this matter expired on January 1, 2009, with the implementation of Duke Energy Ohio s ESP. On February 19, 2009, the Ohio Supreme Court issued its decision on OCC s appeal. The Ohio Supreme Court granted the PUCO s motion to
dismiss ruling that because the challenged rate structure is no longer in effect, it can neither order lower prospective rates nor order a refund.       New legislation (SB 221) was passed on April 23, 2008 and signed by the Governor of Ohio on May 1, 2008. The new law codifies the PUCO s authority to approve an electric utility s standard service offer through an ESP,
which would allow for pricing structures similar to the current RSP. Electric utilities are required to file an ESP and may also file an application for a market rate option (MRO) at the same time. The MRO is a price determined through a competitive
bidding process. If a MRO price is approved, the utility would blend in the RSP or ESP price with the MRO price over a six- to ten-year period, subject to the PUCO s discretion. SB 221 provides for the PUCO to approve non-by-passable charges
for new generation, including construction work-in-process from the outset of construction, as part of an ESP. The new law grants the PUCO discretion to approve single issue rate adjustments to distribution and transmission rates and establishes new
alternative energy resources (including renewable energy) portfolio standards, such that the utility s portfolio must consist of at least 25% of these resources by 2025. SB 221 also provides a separate requirement for energy efficiency, which
must reduce 22% of a utility s load by 2025. The utility s earnings under the ESP can be subject to an annual earnings test and the PUCO must order a refund if it finds that the utility s earnings significantly exceed the earnings of
benchmark companies with similar business and financial risks. The earnings test acts as a cap to the ESP price. SB 221 also limits the ability of a utility to transfer its designated generating assets to an EWG absent PUCO approval.      On July 31, 2008 Duke Energy Ohio filed a new generation pricing formula to be effective January 1, 2009, when the current RSP expired. Among other
things, the plan provides pricing mechanisms for compensation related to the advanced energy, renewables and energy efficiency portfolio standards established by SB 221.      On October 27, 2008 Duke Energy Ohio filed a Stipulation and Recommendation (Stipulation) for consideration by the PUCO regarding Duke Energy Ohio s
July 31, 2008 ESP filing. The Stipulation reflected agreement on all but two issues and was filed with the support of most of the parties to this proceeding. In addition to the Stipulation, the ability for residential governmental aggregation
customers to avoid certain charges and to receive a shopping credit was presented to the PUCO for a ruling. Parties to this proceeding who did not support the Stipulation were free to litigate any, or all, issues.      The Stipulation agrees to a net increase in base generation revenues of approximately $36 million, $74 million and $98 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively,
including termination of the residential and non-residential RTC. Such amounts result in a residential net rate increase of 2% in 2009 and in 2010, and a non-residential rate increase of 2% in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Stipulation also allows the
recovery of expenditures incurred to deploy SmartGrid infrastructure modernization technology on the distribution system. The recovery of such expenditures, net of savings, is subject to an annual residential revenue cap. Further, the Stipulation
allows for the implementation of a new energy efficiency compensation model, referred to as Save-A-Watt, to achieve the energy efficiency mandate pursuant to the recent electric energy legislation. The criteria customers must meet to be exempt from
Duke Energy Ohio s program was also presented to the PUCO for a ruling in this case. Also under the Stipulation, Duke Energy Ohio may defer up to $50 million of certain operation and maintenance costs incurred at the W.C. Beckjord generating
station and amortize such costs over a three-year period.      The ESP hearing occurred on November 10, 2008. On December 17, 2008, the PUCO
issued its finding and order resolving the two litigated issues and adopting a modified Stipulation. Specifically, the PUCO modified the Stipulation to permit certain non-residential customers to opt out of utility-sponsored energy efficiency
initiatives and to allow residential governmental aggregation customers who leave  
       
   117   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             
 Duke Energy Ohio s system to avoid some charges. Applications for rehearing of the PUCO s decision have been filed by environmental groups and a residential
customer advocate group. On February 11, 2009 the PUCO issued an Entry denying the rehearing requests.      As discussed further below within
 Commercial Power  and in Note 1, as a result of the approval of the ESP, effective December 17, 2008, Commercial Power reapplied SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of its operations.         Duke Energy Ohio Gas Rate Case.   In July 2007, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application with the PUCO for an increase in its base rates for gas service.
Duke Energy Ohio sought an increase of approximately $34 million in revenue, or approximately 5.7%, to be effective in the spring of 2008. The application also requested approval to continue tracker recovery of costs associated with the accelerated
gas main replacement program. The staff of the PUCO issued a Staff Report in December 2007 recommending an increase of approximately $14 million to $20 million in revenue. The Staff Report also recommended approval for Duke Energy Ohio to continue
tracker recovery of costs associated with the accelerated gas main replacement program. On February 28, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio reached a settlement agreement with the PUCO Staff and all of the intervening parties on its request for an increase
in natural gas base rates. The settlement called for an annual revenue increase of approximately $18 million in base revenue, or 3% over current revenue, permitted continued recovery of costs through 2018 for Duke Energy Ohio s accelerated gas
main replacement program and permitted recovery of carrying costs on gas stored underground via its monthly gas cost adjustment filing. The settlement did not resolve a proposed rate design for residential customers, which involved moving more of
the fixed charges of providing gas service, such as capital investment in pipes and regulating equipment, billing and meter reading, from the per unit charges to the monthly charge. On May 28, 2008, the PUCO approved the settlement in its
entirety and the proposed rate design. On June 28, 2008, the OCC and OPAE filed Applications for Rehearing opposing the rate design. On July 23, 2008 the Ohio Commission issued an Entry denying the rehearing requests of OCC and OPAE. On
September 16 and 19, 2008 respectively, OCC and OPAE filed their notices of appeal to the Ohio Supreme Court opposing the residential rate design issue. At this time, Duke Energy Ohio cannot predict whether the Ohio Supreme Court will reverse
the PUCO s decision of May 28, 2008.        Duke Energy Ohio Electric Distribution Rate Case  . On June 25, 2008, Duke Energy
Ohio filed notice with the PUCO that it will seek a rate increase for electric delivery service of approximately $86 million, or 4.8% on total electric revenues, to be effective in the second quarter of 2009. Among other things, the rate request
includes a proposal to increase the monthly residential customer charge from $4.50 to $10, with an offsetting reduction in the usage-based charge. This change in rate design will make customer bills more even throughout the year. Duke Energy Ohio
also proposes a distribution modernization tracker that would allow smaller annual increases to reflect increased investment in the delivery system. On December 22, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application requesting deferral of
approximately $31 million related to damage to its distribution system from a September 14, 2008 windstorm. On January 14, 2009, the PUCO granted Duke Energy Ohio s deferral request. Accordingly, a regulatory asset was recorded as of
December 31, 2008 for $31 million. The staff of the PUCO issued a Staff Report in January 2009 recommending an increase of approximately $54 million to $62 million associated with the Ohio distribution rate case. The staff report did not
recommend approval of the distribution modernization tracker. The report also recommended approval of a rider to recover the deferred storm costs from the September 14, 2008 windstorm and recommended a future hearing be established to evaluate
the windstorm related costs and implement a rider. An evidentiary hearing with PUCO is scheduled to begin on March 31, 2009.        Duke Energy
Kentucky Gas Rate Cases   .  In 2002, the KPSC approved Duke Energy Kentucky s gas base rate case which included, among other things, recovery of costs associated with an accelerated gas main replacement program. The approval
authorized a tracking mechanism to recover certain costs including depreciation and a rate of return on the program s capital expenditures. The Kentucky Attorney General appealed to the Franklin Circuit Court the KPSC s approval of the
tracking mechanism as well as the KPSC s subsequent approval of annual rate adjustments under this tracking mechanism. In 2005, both Duke Energy Kentucky and the KPSC requested that the court dismiss these cases.      In February 2005, Duke Energy Kentucky filed a gas base rate case with the KPSC requesting approval to continue the tracking mechanism and for a $14 million annual
increase in base rates. A portion of the increase is attributable to recovery of the current cost of the accelerated gas main replacement program in base rates. In June 2005, the Kentucky General Assembly enacted Kentucky Revised Statute 278.509
(KRS 278.509), which specifically authorizes the KPSC to approve tracker recovery for utilities  gas main replacement programs. In December 2005, the KPSC approved an annual rate increase of $8 million and re-approved the tracking mechanism
through 2011. In February 2006, the Kentucky Attorney General appealed the KPSC s order to the Franklin Circuit Court, claiming that the order improperly allows Duke Energy Kentucky to increase its rates for gas main replacement costs in
between general rate cases, and also  
       
   118   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 claiming that the order improperly allows Duke Energy Kentucky to earn a return on investment for the costs recovered under the tracking mechanism which permits Duke
Energy Kentucky to recover its gas main replacement costs.      In August 2007, the Franklin Circuit Court consolidated all the pending appeals and ruled
that the KPSC lacks legal authority to approve the gas main replacement tracking mechanism, which were approved prior to the enactment of KRS 278.509 in 2005. To date, Duke Energy Kentucky has collected approximately $9 million in annual rate
adjustments under the tracking mechanism. Per the KPSC order, Duke Energy Kentucky collected these revenues subject to refund pending the final outcome of this litigation. Duke Energy Kentucky and the KPSC have requested that the Kentucky Court of
Appeals grant a rehearing of its decision. On February 5, 2009, the Kentucky Court of Appeals denied the rehearing requests of both Duke Energy Kentucky and the KPSC. Duke Energy Kentucky is filing a motion for discretionary review to the
Kentucky Supreme Court on or about March 6, 2009.         Energy Efficiency   .  In May 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed its
Save-A-Watt energy efficiency plan with the NCUC seeking approval to implement new energy efficiency programs, a new regulatory recovery model and a rate rider. The plan recognizes energy efficiency as a reliable, valuable resource that is a
 fifth fuel , that should be part of the portfolio available to meet customers  growing need for electricity along with coal, nuclear, natural gas, or renewable energy. The plan would compensate Duke Energy Carolinas for verified
reductions in energy use and be available to all customer groups. The plan contains proposals for several different energy efficiency programs. Customers would pay for energy efficiency programs with an energy efficiency rider that would be
included in their power bill and adjusted annually. The energy efficiency rider would be based on 90% of the avoided capacity and energy cost of generation not needed as a result of the success of Duke Energy Carolinas  energy efficiency
efforts. The plan is consistent with Duke Energy Carolinas  public commitment to invest 1% of its annual retail revenues from the sale of electricity in energy efficiency programs subject to the appropriate regulatory treatment of Duke Energy
Carolinas  energy efficiency investments. Piedmont Natural Gas Company and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc. raised certain concerns regarding the incentives offered to Duke Energy Carolinas  customers under its proposed
portfolio of energy efficiency programs. In June 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed settlement agreements resolving all issues with these parties. Duke Energy Carolinas has not reached settlement with any of the other intervenors. The evidentiary
hearing occurred the week of July 28, 2008 and concluded on August 18, 2008. Duke Energy Carolinas was unable to reach a settlement with any party to the proceeding. On October 7, 2008 Duke Energy Carolinas filed its proposed order
and legal brief with the NCUC.      On February 26, 2009, the NCUC issued an order approving the proposed energy efficiency programs as new programs
eligible for incentives under North Carolina s 2009 energy legislation. The NCUC requested additional information regarding the earnings potential under its proposed Save-A-Watt recovery mechanism before ruling on this issue; however, it
authorized Duke Energy Carolinas to implement its proposed energy efficiency rider pending final resolution and subject to refund.      On February 25,
2009, the PSCSC issued a directive rejecting Duke Energy Carolinas  Save-A-Watt energy efficiency plan, which was filed with the PSCSC on September 28, 2007.       On July 11, 2007, the PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio s Demand Side Management/Energy Efficiency Program (DSM Program). The DSM programs were first proposed in 2006 and were endorsed by the Duke Energy Community
Partnership, which is a collaborative group made up of representatives of organizations interested in energy conservation, efficiency and assistance to low-income customers. The program costs are recouped through a cost recovery mechanism that will
be adjusted annually to reflect the previous year s activity. Duke Energy Ohio is permitted to recover lost revenues, program costs and shared savings (once the programs reach 65% of the targeted savings level) through the cost recovery
mechanism based upon impact studies to be provided to the Staff of the PUCO. Duke Energy Ohio filed the Save-A-Watt Energy Efficiency Plan as part of its ESP filed with PUCO on July 31, 2008 (discussed above). A Stipulation and Recommendation
for consideration by the PUCO regarding Duke Energy Ohio s ESP filing, including implementation of Save-A-Watt, was filed on October 27, 2008. The ESP hearing occurred on November 10, 2008. On December 17, 2008, the PUCO approved
the ESP, including allowing for the implementation of a new Save-A-Watt energy efficiency compensation model. However, the PUCO determined that certain non-residential customers may opt out of Duke Energy Ohio s energy efficiency initiative.
Applications for rehearing of this decision have been filed by environmental groups and a residential customer advocate group.      In October 2007, Duke
Energy Indiana filed its petition with the IURC requesting approval of an alternative regulatory plan to increase its energy efficiency efforts in the state. Similar to the plans in North Carolina and South Carolina, Duke Energy Indiana seeks
approval of a plan that will be available to all customer groups and will compensate Duke Energy Indiana for verified reductions in energy usage. Under the plan, customers would pay for energy efficiency programs through an energy efficiency
rider that would be included in their power bill and adjusted annually through a proceeding before the IURC. The energy efficiency rider proposal is based on the avoided cost of generation not needed as a result of the success of Duke Energy
Indiana s energy efficiency programs. A number of parties have  
       
   119   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 intervened in the proceeding. On May 29, 2008 Duke Energy and Vectren Energy Delivery of Indiana, Inc. filed a stipulation and settlement agreement in the
proceeding. On August 1, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana reached a settlement agreement with the OUCC resolving all issues in the proceeding. The settlement agreement was filed with the IURC on August 15, 2008. On October 31, 2008, Duke
Energy Indiana reached a settlement agreement with Nucor Corporation, Steel Dynamics, Inc. and the Kroger Company resolving all issues in the proceeding. The settlement agreement was filed with the IURC on November 3, 2008. On January 15,
2009, Duke Energy Indiana entered into a settlement that amended the October 31, 2008 settlement, adding two additional intervenors to the settlement   the Indiana Industrial Group and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Duke Energy Indiana has not
reached a settlement with one intervenor in the proceeding, the Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, Inc. An evidentiary hearing with the IURC is scheduled to occur in the first quarter of 2009.      On November 15, 2007, Duke Energy Kentucky filed its annual application to continue existing energy efficiency programs, consisting of nine residential and two
commercial and industrial programs, and to true-up its gas and electric tracking mechanism for recovery of lost revenues, program costs and shared savings. On February 11, 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky filed a motion to amend its energy efficiency
programs and applied to reinstitute a low income Home Energy Assistance Program. The KPSC bifurcated the proposed Home Energy Assistance Program from the other energy efficiency programs. On May 14, 2008, the KPSC approved the energy efficiency
programs. On September 25, 2008, the KPSC approved Duke Energy Kentucky s Home Energy Assistance program, making it available for customers at or below 150% of the federal poverty level. On December 1, 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky filed
an application for a Save-A-Watt Energy Efficiency Plan. The application seeks a new energy efficiency recovery mechanism similar to what was proposed in Ohio and Indiana. An evidentiary hearing with the KPSC is expected to occur in the third
quarter of 2009.        2007 North Carolina and South Carolina Legislation   .  South Carolina passed new energy legislation (S 431) which
became effective May 3, 2007. A key element of the legislation include expansion of the annual fuel clause mechanism to include recovery of costs of reagents (e.g., ammonia, limestone, etc.) that are consumed in the operation of Duke Energy
Carolinas  environmental control technologies. The cost of reagents for Duke Energy Carolinas in 2008 was $24 million and is expected to be approximately $40 million in 2009. With the enactment of this legislation, Duke Energy Carolinas will be
allowed to recover the South Carolina portion of these costs, incurred on or after May 3, 2007, through the fuel clause. The legislation also includes provisions to provide assurance of cost recovery related to a utility s incurrence of
project development costs associated with nuclear baseload generation, cost recovery assurance for construction costs associated with nuclear or coal baseload generation, and the ability to recover financing costs for new nuclear baseload generation
in rates during construction through a rider. The North Carolina General Assembly also passed comprehensive energy legislation (SB 3) in July 2007 that was signed into law by the Governor on August 20, 2007. The North Carolina legislation
allows utilities to recover the costs of reagents and certain purchased power costs through the annual fuel clause. Like the South Carolina legislation, the North Carolina legislation provides cost recovery assurance, subject to prudency review, for
nuclear project development costs as well as baseload generation construction costs. A utility may include financing costs related to construction work in progress for baseload plants in a rate case. The North Carolina legislation also establishes a
renewable energy and energy efficiency portfolio standard (REPS) for electric utilities at 3% of energy output in 2012, rising gradually to 12.5% by 2021, and grants the NCUC authority to approve an energy efficiency rate rider to compensate
utilities for new energy efficiency programs that they implement, as well as a REPS rider to recover incremental costs incurred to comply with the renewable portfolio standard. On February 29, 2008, the NCUC adopted new rules and modified
existing rules to implement the legislation.        Renewable Resources   .  On June 6, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an
application with the NCUC for approval of a Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Distributed Generation Program. The application seeks authorization to invest approximately $100 million to install approximately 850 solar PV facilities on customer rooftops and
other customer and company owned property over a two-year period, resulting in a total generating capacity of 20 MW. If approved, the program would enable Duke Energy Carolinas to partially satisfy the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (REPS)
established by SB 3. It will also enable Duke Energy Carolinas to evaluate the role of distributed generation on Duke Energy Carolinas  electrical system and gain experience in owning and operating renewable energy resources. Because the
Program involves the construction of electric generating facilities, the NCUC must issue a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) to Duke Energy Carolinas before it may proceed. On October 20, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed
rebuttal testimony, agreeing to reduce the size of the program to an investment of approximately $50 million to install a total generating capacity of 10 MW to address concerns raised by other parties to the proceeding. The NCUC held a hearing on
this matter on October 23, 2008. On December 31, 2008, the NCUC issued its Order Granting CPCN Subject to Conditions. The conditions are (1) reduction of the program size from 20 MWs to 10 MWs (as previously agreed by Duke Energy
Carolinas); and (2) limiting program costs recoverable through the REPS rider program costs equivalent to the cost of the third place bid in Duke Energy Carolinas  2007 request for proposal for renewable  
       
   120   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 energy. The Order leaves open the opportunity to recover the excess costs through other recovery mechanisms. On January 29, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas filed a
motion for reconsideration asking the NCUC to either eliminate the condition limiting recovery of the program costs through the REPS rider or provide Duke Energy Carolinas with assurance that all costs of the program can be recovered through a
combination of the REPS rider and base rates. The NCUC has agreed to hold oral arguments on March 23, 2009 regarding reconsideration of the cost recovery conditions of the order.         Deferral of Costs  . On February 4, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas filed petitions with the NCUC and the PSCSC requesting an accounting order to defer
certain environmental compliance costs and the incremental costs incurred from the purchase of a portion of Saluda River s ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. Duke Energy Carolinas is requesting approval to defer in a regulatory
asset account certain post-in-service costs that are being or will be incurred in connection with the addition of the Allen Steam Station flue gas desulfurization equipment related to environmental compliance scheduled to go into service in the
spring of 2009 and the purchase in September 2008 of a portion of Saluda s ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The costs Duke Energy Carolinas is seeking to defer are the incremental costs that are being incurred or will be
incurred from the date these assets are placed in service to the date Duke Energy Carolinas is authorized to begin reflecting in rates the recovery of such costs on an ongoing basis. On February 25, 2009, the PSCSC approved the deferral of these
costs.              Capital Expansion Projects.         Overview   .  U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is engaged in planning efforts to meet projected load growth in its service territories.
Capacity additions may include new nuclear, integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC), coal facilities or gas-fired generation units. Because of the long lead times required to develop such assets, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas is taking
steps now to ensure those options are available.        William States Lee III Nuclear Station  . On December 12, 2007, Duke Energy
Carolinas filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for a combined Construction and Operating License (COL) for two Westinghouse AP1000 (advanced passive) reactors for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station at a
site in Cherokee County, South Carolina. Each reactor is capable of producing approximately 1,117 MW. Submitting the COL application does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build nuclear units. On February 25, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas
received confirmation from the NRC that its COL application has been accepted and docketed for the next stage of review. On June 27, 2008, the Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League (BREDL) filed a petition to intervene in the COL proceeding
before the NRC. On September 22, 2008, the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board issued a decision denying BREDL s Petition to Intervene and Request for Hearing. BREDL did not appeal the decision. On December 7, 2007, Duke Energy
Carolinas filed applications with the NCUC and the PSCSC for approval of Duke Energy Carolinas  decision to incur development costs associated with the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station. The NCUC had previously approved Duke
Energy s decision to incur the North Carolina allocable share of up to $125 million in development costs through 2007. The 2007 requests cover a total of up to $230 million in development costs through 2009, which is comprised of $70 million
incurred through December 31, 2007 plus an additional $160 million of anticipated costs in 2008 and 2009. The PSCSC approved Duke Energy Carolinas  Lee Nuclear project development cost application on June 9, 2008, and the NCUC issued
its approval order on June 11, 2008. On July 24, 2008, environmental intervenors filed motions to rescind or amend the approval orders issued by the NCUC and the PSCSC, and Duke Energy Carolinas subsequently filed responses in opposition
to the motions. On August 13 and August 25, 2008, the PSCSC and NCUC denied the environmental intervenor motion. The NRC review of the COL application is ongoing and the current schedule concludes the COL may be granted in early 2012. Duke
Energy Carolinas filed with the DOE for a federal loan guarantee. Duke Energy Carolinas filed Part 1 applications in September 2008 and a Part II application in December 2008. If obtained, a federal loan guarantee has the potential to significantly
lower financing costs associated with the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station.        Cliffside Unit 6   .  On June 2,
2006, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NCUC for a CPCN to construct two 800 MW state of the art coal generation units at its existing Cliffside Steam Station in North Carolina. On March 21, 2007, the NCUC issued an Order
allowing Duke Energy Carolinas to build one 800 MW unit. The NCUC s Order explained the basis for its decision to approve construction of one unit, with an approved cost estimate of $1.93 billion (including AFUDC), and included certain
conditions including providing for updates on construction cost estimates. A group of environmental intervenors filed a motion and supplemental motion for reconsideration in April 2007 and May 2007, respectively. The NCUC denied the motions for
reconsideration in June 2007. On February 29, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed its latest updated cost estimate of $1.8 billion (excluding approximately $0.6 billion of AFUDC) for the approved new Cliffside Unit 6. Duke Energy Carolinas
believes that the overall cost of Cliffside Unit 6 will be reduced by approx- 
       
   121   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 imately $125 million in federal advanced clean coal tax credits, as discussed further below. On February 20, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into an amended
and restated engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning services agreement, valued at approximately $1.3 billion, with an affiliate of The Shaw Group, Inc., of which approximately $950 million relates to participation in the
construction of Cliffside Unit 6, with the remainder related to a flue gas desulfurization system on an existing unit at Cliffside.      On
January 29, 2008, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) issued a final air permit for the new Cliffside Unit 6 and on-site construction has begun. In March 2008, four contested case petitions were filed
appealing the final air permit. Duke Energy intervened in all four cases which have been consolidated. A hearing is not expected before the end of 2009. See Note 18 for a discussion of a lawsuit filed by the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy,
Environmental Defense Fund, National Parks Conservation Association, Natural Resources Defenses Council, and Sierra Club (collectively referred to as Citizen Groups) related to the construction of Cliffside Unit 6.      On October 11, 2007, the environmental group N.C. Waste Awareness Reduction Network (WARN) and two individual N.C. WARN members filed a petition against the
DENR contesting the issuance of a wastewater discharge permit to Duke Energy Carolinas for the Cliffside Steam Station. This matter has been settled and the dismissal and settlement document was filed with the Office of Administrative Hearings on
March 4, 2008.       On October 14, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas submitted revised
hazardous air pollutant emissions determination documentation including revised emission source information to the Division of Air Quality (DAQ) indicating that no maximum achievable control technology (MACT) or MACT-like requirements apply since
Cliffside Unit 6 has been demonstrated to be a minor source of hazardous air pollutants. On October 24, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed to amend its air permit to include emission limits to assure the public of the minor source status of
Cliffside Unit 6. DAQ held public hearings on January 15, 2009, in Forest City, North Carolina and January 22, 2009 in Statesville, North Carolina to allow public comment on DAQ s proposal to find Cliffside Unit 6 as a minor source of
hazardous air pollutants. The meeting notices were accompanied with a draft permit that includes the minor source limits and monitoring requirements that make the limits enforceable. A final permit with minor source limits is expected in the first
quarter of 2009.        Dan River Steam Station and Buck Steam Station   .  On June 29, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed with the
NCUC preliminary CPCN information to construct a 620 MW combined cycle natural gas-fired generating facility at its existing Dan River Steam Station, as well as updated preliminary CPCN information to construct a 620 MW combined cycle natural
gas-fired generating facility at its existing Buck Steam Station. On December 14, 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed CPCN applications for the two combined cycle facilities. The NCUC consolidated its consideration of the two CPCN applications
and held an evidentiary hearing on the applications on March 11, 2008. The NCUC issued its order approving the CPCN applications for the Buck and Dan River combined cycle projects on June 5, 2008. On May 5, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas
entered into an engineering, construction and commissioning services agreement for the Buck combined cycle project, valued at approximately $275 million, with Shaw North Carolina, Inc. On November 5, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas notified the
NCUC that since the issuance of the CPCN Order, recent economic factors have caused increased uncertainty with regard to forecasted load and near-term capital expenditures, which has resulted in a modification of the construction schedule. Under the
revised schedule, the Buck Project is expected to be delayed for a period of up to one year and is currently anticipated to begin operation in single cycle mode in summer 2011 and convert to combined cycle mode in Summer 2012. The Dan River Project
is expected to begin operation in combined cycle mode in 2012 as originally planned, but without a phased-in simple cycle commercial operation.       The combined cycle natural gas-fired generating facility at the existing Buck Steam Station will affect an isolated wetland, and Duke Energy Carolinas applied for a state permit. DENR issued the permit with an unacceptable condition
requiring submission of a storm water plan before engineering and project siting have determined the location of the facilities. Duke Energy Carolinas challenged the permit and the matter has been resolved; DENR has issued a new permit acceptable to
Duke Energy Carolinas. On October 15, 2008 DENR issued a final construction permit authorizing construction of the Buck combined cycle natural gas-fired generating units.        Edwardsport Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Plant.   On September 7, 2006, Duke Energy Indiana and Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company
d/b/a Vectren Energy Delivery of Indiana (Vectren) filed a joint petition with the IURC seeking a CPCN for the construction of a 630 MW IGCC power plant at Duke Energy Indiana s Edwardsport Generating Station in Knox County, Indiana. The
petition describes the applicants  need for additional base load generating capacity and requests timely recovery of all construction and operating costs related to the proposed generating station, including financing costs, together with
certain incentive ratemaking treatment. In April 2007, Duke Energy Indiana and Vectren filed a Front End Engineering and Design Study Report which included an updated estimated cost for the IGCC project of approximately $2 billion (including
approximately $120 million of AFUDC). In June 2007, Vectren decided not to  
       
   122   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 proceed with the CPCN petition, and in August 2007, Vectren formally withdrew its participation in the IGCC plant. In June 2007, a hearing was conducted on the CPCN
petition based on Duke Energy Indiana owning 100% of the project. On November 20, 2007, the IURC issued an order granting Duke Energy Indiana a CPCN for the proposed IGCC project, approved the cost estimate of $1.985 billion and approved the
timely recovery of costs related to the project. The IURC also approved Duke Energy Indiana s proposal to initiate a proceeding in May 2008 concerning proposals for the study of partial carbon capture, sequestration and/or enhanced oil recovery
for the Edwardsport IGCC Project. On January 25, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana received the final air permit from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, Inc., Sierra Club, Inc., Save the
Valley, Inc., and Valley Watch, Inc., all intervenors in the CPCN proceeding, have appealed the IURC Order to the Indiana Court of Appeals and also appealed the air permit. The Joint Brief of the Appellants in the appeal of the CPCN case was filed
on May 30, 2008 and the Duke Energy Indiana Brief of Appellee was filed on July 23, 2008 in the appeal of the IURC CPCN Order. On October 16, 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals affirmed the IURC s grant of Duke Energy
Indiana s CPCN petition. On November 17, 2008, the same parties filed for a rehearing before the Indiana Court of Appeals, which was denied on December 17, 2008. The time for additional appeals has passed and this proceeding is now
concluded.      On May 1, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana filed its first semi-annual IGCC Rider and ongoing review proceeding with the IURC as required
under the CPCN order issued by the IURC in November 2007, which approved the IGCC Project. In its filing, Duke Energy Indiana requested approval of a new cost estimate for the IGCC Project of $2.35 billion (including approximately $125 million of
AFUDC) and for approval of plans to study carbon capture as required by the IURC s November 2007 CPCN Order. An evidentiary hearing was conducted on August 25, 2008. On January 7, 2009, the IURC approved Duke Energy Indiana s
request, including the new cost estimate of $2.35 billion, and cost recovery associated with a study on carbon capture. The OUCC filed a motion of clarification of this order concerning a ratemaking issue related to deferred taxes. The order was not
otherwise appealed. The IURC is anticipated to rule on the motion for clarification of the ratemaking issue by the end of the first quarter of 2009. On November 3, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana filed its second semi-annual IGCC rider and ongoing
review proceeding with the IURC. Duke Energy Indiana was also required to file its plans for studying carbon storage related to the project within 60 days of the order. Under the CPCN order and statutory provisions, Duke Energy Indiana is entitled
to recover the costs reasonably incurred in reliance on the CPCN Order. Duke Energy Indiana has begun construction on the Edwardsport IGCC plant and entered into a $200 million engineering, procurement and construction management agreement with
Bechtel Power Corporation in December 2008 in connection with the construction of the plant.        Federal Advanced Clean Coal Tax Credits.
  Duke Energy has been awarded approximately $125 million of federal advanced clean coal tax credits associated with its construction of Cliffside Unit 6 and approximately $134 million of federal advanced clean coal tax credits associated with
its construction of the Edwardsport IGCC plant. In March, 2008, two environmental groups, Appalachian Voices and the Canary Coalition, filed suit against the Federal government challenging the tax credits awarded to incentivize certain clean coal
projects. Although Duke Energy was not a party to the case, the allegations center on the tax incentives provide for Duke Energy s Cliffside project. The initial complaint alleged a failure to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act.
The first amended complaint, filed in August, 2008, added an Endangered Species Act claim and also sought declaratory and injunctive relief against the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. On November 10, 2008, the
District Court dismissed the case, finding that plaintiffs lacked standing to pursue their claims. Duke Energy anticipates that plaintiffs will appeal this decision.             Other U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas Matters.         Ohio Riser Leak Investigation.   In April 2005, the PUCO issued an order opening a statewide investigation into riser leaks in gas pipeline systems throughout Ohio. The investigation followed four explosions since 2000 caused by
gas riser leaks, including an April 2000 explosion in Duke Energy Ohio s service area. In November 2006, the PUCO Staff released the expert report, which concluded that certain types of risers are prone to leaks under various conditions,
including over-tightening during initial installation. The PUCO Staff recommended that natural gas companies continue to monitor the situation and study the cause of any further riser leaks to determine whether further remedial action is warranted.
As of January 1, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio had approximately 87,000 of these risers on its distribution system. If the PUCO orders natural gas companies to replace all of these risers, Duke Energy Ohio estimates a replacement cost of approximately
$40 million. As part of the rate case filed in July 2007 (see  Duke Energy Ohio Gas Rate Case  above), Duke Energy Ohio requested approval from the PUCO to accelerate its riser replacement program. The riser replacement program is
contained in the settlement reached with all intervenors and is expected to be completed at the end of 2012.        City of Orangeburg, South Carolina
Wholesale Sales.   On June 20, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed notice with the NCUC that it intends to sell electricity at wholesale under a Power Purchase Agreement dated May 23, 2008 to the City of Orangeburg, South Caro- 
       
   123   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 lina, at the same level of firmness or reliability as it provides to its retail customers (i.e. native load priority). This notice is required by a condition imposed
by the NCUC in approving the Cinergy merger. Duke Energy Carolinas requested that the NCUC accept and acknowledge the purchase power agreement without conditions. Together with the advance notice, Duke Energy Carolinas and Orangeburg filed a joint
petition for a declaratory ruling that Duke Energy Carolinas  new wholesale contracts with native load priority will be treated for ratemaking and reporting purposes in the same manner as existing wholesale contracts with native load priority.
This would mean that revenues from those contracts will be allocated to the wholesale jurisdiction and costs will be allocated to the wholesale jurisdiction based on average system costs. The NCUC Public Staff has filed its objection to the advance
notice and joint petition. The NCUC held a hearing on this matter on November 5, 2008. Briefs and proposed orders were filed on December 30, 2008. Duke Energy Carolinas is awaiting an order from the NCUC. Duke Energy Carolinas has also
filed advance notices of its intent to serve additional wholesale customers, the City of Greenwood, South Carolina and Haywood Electric Membership Corp., at native load priority.        SmartGrid and Distributed Renewable Generation Demonstration Project.   On May 23, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition with the IURC
requesting approval for SmartGrid and Distributed Renewable Generation Demonstration Project investments and related costs along with a request to annually update distribution rates and include a lost revenue recovery mechanism. Hearings are
anticipated to be held in April 2009.        Gibson Unit 4 Outage.   In a 2008 fuel clause proceeding, the IURC granted a motion by the
Industrial Group and Nucor Corporation to establish a subdocket to examine whether imprudence in Duke Energy Indiana s maintenance practices led to a forced outage at Gibson Station Unit 4 during January-March 2008. The outage contributed to
notably higher fuel and purchased power costs during the outage. A hearing on this subdocket proceeding was held in January 2009. The IURC authorized Duke Energy Indiana to collect through rates the costs for which it sought recovery in the
subdocket proceeding subject to refund (similar to prior subdockets) pending the outcome of this new subdocket related to maintenance practices for Gibson Station Unit 4.       
      Commercial Power.        As discussed in Note 1, effective
December 17, 2008, Commercial Power reapplied the provisions of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of its operations due to the passing of SB 221 and the PUCO s approval of the ESP. However, since certain portions of Commercial
Power s operations are not subject to regulatory accounting pursuant to SFAS No. 71, reported results for Commercial Power are subject to volatility due to the over- or under-collection of certain costs for which recovery is not automatic
under the ESP. Commercial Power may be impacted by certain of the regulatory matters discussed above, including the Duke Energy Ohio electric rate filings.         FERC 203 Application    .   On April 23, 2008 (supplemented on May 6, 2008), Duke Energy Ohio and certain affiliates filed an application with the FERC requesting approval to transfer Duke Energy
Ohio s electric generating facilities, some of which are designated to serve Ohio customers, to affiliate companies. The FERC filing, if approved, does not obligate Duke Energy to make the transfer of the electric generating facilities, and
does not impact Duke Energy Ohio s current rates. On October 10, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio and affiliates filed a notice with the FERC reporting that Duke Energy Ohio was in settlement discussions with all parties in the Ohio proceeding
regarding Duke Energy Ohio s application to establish an ESP, as discussed above. Duke Energy Ohio advised the FERC that it believed that in light of those discussions good cause existed for the FERC to extend the time to consider Duke Energy
Ohio s Section 203 application. On October 17, 2008, the FERC issued an order extending the time for the FERC to act on the application by 180 additional days, and ordered Duke Energy Ohio to inform the FERC of the status of
settlement discussions by November 16, 2008. As part of the settlement that was approved by the PUCO on December 17, 2008 (see discussion above) Duke Energy Ohio agreed to withdraw that portion of its application for approval related to
the transfer of its generating facilities designated to serve Ohio customers and the PUCO approved of the transfer for the remaining generating facilities. Duke Energy Ohio filed a new application requesting FERC approval to transfer to affiliate
companies only the remaining generating facilities not designated to serve Ohio customers, which was approved by the FERC on February 19, 2009.        PJM Interconnection Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) Buyers  Complaint   .  On May 30, 2008, a group of public utility commissions, state consumer counsels, industrial power customers and load serving entities,
known collectively as the RPM Buyers, filed a complaint at FERC. The complaint asks FERC to find that the results of the three transitional base residual auctions conducted by PJM to procure capacity for its RPM capacity market during the years
2008-2011 are unjust and unreasonable because, allegedly, they have produced excessive capacity prices, have failed to prevent suppliers from exercising market power, and have not produced benefits commensurate with costs. In their complaint, the
RPM Buyers propose revised, administratively determined auction clearing prices. Certain Duke Energy Ohio revenues during the years 2008 2011 are at risk, as Duke Energy Ohio planned to supply capacity to this mar- 
       
   124   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 ket. On July 11, 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed a response to the complaint with the FERC. On September 19, 2008, the FERC issued an Order denying the
Buyer s complaint. The FERC dismissed the RPM Buyers  complaint, finding that, for the transition auctions, no party violated PJM s tariff and the prices determined during the auctions were in accordance with the tariff provisions
governing the auctions. On October 20, 2008, the RPM buyers filed a Request for Rehearing with the FERC that raised the same issues as in the initial complaint that was denied by the FERC.             Other Matters.        Pioneer Transmission LLC Joint Venture.  On August 8, 2008, Duke Energy announced the formation of a 50-50 joint venture, called Pioneer Transmission LLC (Pioneer Transmission), with American Electric Power Company,
Inc. (AEP) to build and operate 240 miles of extra-high-voltage 765-kilovolt (KV) transmission lines and related facilities in Indiana. Pioneer Transmission will be regulated by the FERC and the IURC. Both Duke Energy and AEP own an equal interest
in the joint venture and will share equally in the project costs, which are currently estimated at approximately $1 billion, of which approximately $500 million is anticipated to be financed by Pioneer Transmission and the remaining amount split
equally between Duke Energy and AEP. The joint venture will operate in Indiana as a transmission utility and filed for rate approval for the project from the FERC in the fourth quarter of 2008, and will make a filing with the IURC in the second
quarter of 2009. The earliest possible in-service date for the project is in 2014 or 2015.       Application for the Establishment of a Regulatory
Asset.  On November 14, 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky petitioned the KPSC for permission to create a regulatory asset to defer for future recovery approximately $5 million for its expenses incurred to repair damage and restore service to its
customers following extensive storm-related damage caused by Hurricane Ike on September 14, 2008. The KPSC approved the requested accounting order on January 7, 2009.             5. Joint Ownership of Generating and Transmission Facilities        Duke Energy Carolinas, along with North Carolina Municipal Power Agency Number 1, North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation and Piedmont Municipal Power Agency, have joint ownership of Catawba Nuclear Station, which is a
facility operated by Duke Energy Carolinas. As discussed in Note 3, in September 2008, Duke Energy completed the purchase of a portion of Saluda s ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. Under the terms of the agreement, Duke Energy
paid approximately $150 million for an additional approximate 7 percent ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station.       Duke Energy Ohio,
Columbus Southern Power Company, and Dayton Power   Light jointly own electric generating units and related transmission facilities in Ohio. Duke Energy Kentucky and Dayton Power   Light jointly own an electric generating unit.
Duke Energy Ohio and WVPA jointly own Vermillion Station. Additionally, Duke Energy Indiana is a joint-owner of Gibson Station Unit No. 5 with WVPA and Indiana Municipal Power Agency (IMPA), as well as a joint-owner with WVPA and IMPA of
certain Indiana transmission property and local facilities. These facilities constitute part of the integrated transmission and distribution systems, which are operated and maintained by Duke Energy Indiana.         
   125   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Duke Energy s share of jointly-owned plant or facilities included on the December 31, 2008 Consolidated Balance Sheet were
as follows:         

(a)  
  Station is not operated by Duke Energy Ohio.     

(b)  
  Included in Commercial Power segment.     

(c)  
  Included in U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment.     

(d)  
  Property, Plant and Equipment includes approximately $145 million that represents the net amount for the additional portion of Catawba purchased from Saluda in September 2008. Accumulated
Depreciation includes approximately $1 million, which represents estimated depreciation from the effective date of the purchase of the additional ownership in Catawba through December 31, 2008.         Duke Energy s share of revenues and operating costs of the above jointly owned generating facilities are included within the corresponding line on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. Each participant in the jointly owned facilities must provide its own financing.         
   126   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              6. Income Taxes             The following details the components of income tax expense:             Income Tax Expense          

(a)  
  Included in the  Total current income taxes  line above is a FIN 48 benefit relating primarily to certain temporary differences of approximately $46 million for 2008 and $245
million for 2007.               Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes

127   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense at the U.S. Federal Statutory Tax Rate to the Actual Tax Expense from Continuing Operations (Statutory Rate
Reconciliation)          
     During 2008, Duke Energy had tax benefits related to depreciation and other property, plant and
equipment related differences, such as AFUDC equity, of approximately $30 million, certain foreign restructuring of approximately $25 million and a manufacturing deduction of approximately $18 million. These benefits are reflected in the above table
in Other items, net.      During 2007, Duke Energy had tax benefits related to the manufacturing deduction of approximately $35 million, which is
reflected in the above table in Other items, net. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the manufacturing deduction increased from 3% to 6% on qualified production activities.       During 2006, Duke Energy had favorable tax settlements on research and development costs and nuclear decommissioning costs of approximately $30 million, tax
benefits related to the impairment of an investment in Bolivia of approximately $25 million and the tax benefits related to manufacturing deduction of approximately $13 million. The manufacturing deduction was created by the American Job Creation
Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act provides a deduction for income from qualified domestic production activities. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Act provided for a 3% deduction on qualified production activities. These benefits
are reflected in the above table in Other items, net.       Valuation allowances have been established for certain foreign and state net operating
loss carryforwards that reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that will be realized on a more-likely-than-not basis. The net change in the total valuation allowance is included in Tax differential on foreign earnings and State income tax, net of
federal income tax effect in the above table.             Net Deferred Income Tax Liability
Components          
       
   128   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The above amounts have been classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:             Deferred Tax Liabilities          
     Deferred income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of
Duke Energy s foreign subsidiaries when such amounts are deemed to be permanently reinvested. The cumulative undistributed earnings as of December 31, 2008 on which Duke Energy has not provided deferred income taxes and foreign withholding
taxes is approximately $734 million.      Duke Energy or its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. with federal and various state governmental
authorities, and in foreign jurisdictions.            Changes to Unrecognized Tax Benefits  
        
     At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, Duke Energy had approximately $294 million and
$114 million, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, may affect the effective tax rate or a regulatory liability. At this time, Duke Energy is unable to estimate the specific effect to either. At December 31, 2008
and December 31, 2007, Duke Energy had approximately $14 million and $16 million, respectively, that, if recognized, would affect Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax. At December 31, 2007, Duke Energy had approximately
$9 million that, if recognized, would have affected Goodwill. In accordance with SFAS No. 141R, which is effective January 1, 2009, Duke Energy has approximately $6 million identified as Goodwill at December 31, 2008 that, if
recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.      It is reasonably possible that Duke Energy will reflect an approximate $60 million reduction in
unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months due to expected settlements.       During the years ending December 31, 2008, and
December 31, 2007, Duke Energy recognized approximately $2 million and $38 million of net interest income, respectively, related to income taxes. At December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007, Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance
Sheets included approximately $29 million and $27 million, respectively, of interest receivable, which reflects all interest related to income taxes, and approximately $2 million related to accruals for the payment of penalties.          
   129   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Duke Energy has the following tax years open.         

Jurisdiction   
      
   Tax Years    
 
    Federal   
      
  1999 and after (except for Cinergy and its subsidiaries, which are open for years 2000 and after)   
 
    State   
      
  Majority closed through 2001 except for certain refund claims for tax years 1978-2001 and any adjustments related to open federal years   
 
    International   
      
  2000 and after   
    As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately $490 million and $122 million, respectively, of federal
income tax receivables were included in Other within Current Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2008 this balance exceeded 5% of Total Current Assets.             7. Asset Retirement Obligations       Asset
retirement obligations, which represent legal obligations associated with the retirement of certain tangible long-lived assets, are computed as the present value of the projected costs for the future retirement of specific assets and are recognized
in the period in which the liability is incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The present value of the liability is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset in the period the liability is incurred. This additional
carrying amount is then depreciated over the life of the asset. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the liability is adjusted for any revisions to the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset retirement obligation (with corresponding
adjustments to property, plant, and equipment), which can occur due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, cost escalation, changes in technology applicable to the assets to be retired and changes in federal, state or local
regulations, as well as for accretion of the liability due to the passage of time until the obligation is settled. Depreciation expense is adjusted prospectively for any increases or decreases to the carrying amount of the associated asset. The
adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no impact on the earnings of Duke Energy s regulated electric operations in North Carolina and South Carolina as the effects of the recognition and subsequent accounting for an asset retirement obligation are
offset by the establishment of regulatory assets and liabilities as Duke Energy received approval from both the NCUC and PSCSC to defer all cumulative and future income statement impacts related to SFAS No. 143. However, the PUCO, IURC and KPSC
do not allow Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky, respectively, to defer costs associated with asset retirement obligations, thus the subsequent accounting for asset retirement obligations recorded in those jurisdictions
impacts earnings.            Asset retirement obligations at Duke Energy relate
primarily to the decommissioning of nuclear power facilities, obligations related to right-of-way agreements, asbestos removal and contractual leases for land use. In accordance with SFAS No. 143, Duke Energy identified certain assets that have
an indeterminate life, and thus the fair value of the retirement obligation is not reasonably estimable. These assets included distribution facilities and some gas-fired power plants. A liability for these asset retirement obligations will be
recorded when a fair value is determinable.      The following table presents the changes to the liability associated with asset retirement obligations
during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:         

(a)  
  As discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses.     

(b)  
  As discussed in Note 3, in September 2008, Duke Energy acquired an additional ownership interest in Catawba.     

(c)  
  Accretion expense for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 included approximately $163 million and $153 million, respectively, related to Duke Energy s regulated electric
operations which have been deferred as regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with SFAS No. 71, as discussed above.            
   130   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Duke Energy s regulated electric and regulated natural gas operations accrue costs of removal for property that does not have an
associated legal retirement obligation based on regulatory orders from the various state commissions. These costs of removal are recorded as a regulatory liability in accordance with regulatory treatment under SFAS No. 71. Duke Energy does not
accrue the estimated cost of removal when no legal obligation associated with retirement or removal exists for any non-regulated assets (including Duke Energy Ohio s generation assets). The total amount of cost of removal for assets without an
associated legal retirement obligation, which are included in Other Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, was $2,162 million and $2,173 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       Nuclear Decommissioning Costs.  In 2005, the NCUC and PSCSC collectively approved a $48 million annual amount for contributions and expense levels for
decommissioning. In each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy expensed approximately $48 million and contributed cash of approximately $48 million to the NDTF for decommissioning costs. These amounts are presented in
the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Purchases of Available-For-Sale Securities within Cash Flows from Investing Activities. The entire amount of these contributions were to the funds reserved for contaminated costs as contributions to the
funds reserved for non-contaminated costs have been discontinued since the current estimates indicate existing funds to be sufficient to cover projected future costs. The balance of the external nuclear decommissioning trust funds, which are
reflected as Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds within Investments and Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, was approximately $1,436 million as of December 31, 2008 and $1,929 million as of December 31, 2007. The decrease in
the value of the NDTF during 2008 is due to the overall decline in the value of the investments held in the NDTF as a result of the impacts of the current economic condition on the equity and debt markets. The fair value of assets legally restricted
for the purpose of settling asset retirement obligations associated with nuclear decommissioning was $1,194 million as of December 31, 2008 and $1,551 million as of December 31, 2007. Estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs,
including the cost of decommissioning plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, total approximately $2.3 billion in 2003 dollars, based on a decommissioning study completed in 2004. This includes costs related to Duke Energy s
proportionate ownership in the Catawba Nuclear Station, which was 12.5% at the time the study was completed. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership interests in the
station.      As the NCUC and the PSCSC require that Duke Energy update its cost estimate for decommissioning its nuclear plants every five years, new
site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies were completed in January 2009 that showed total estimated nuclear decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, of
approximately $3 billion in 2008 dollars. This estimate includes Duke Energy s 19.25% ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. Duke Energy will file these site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies with the NCUC and the PSCSC
later in 2009. In addition to the decommissioning cost studies, a new funding study is underway to determine the appropriateness of the annual amounts currently being contributed to the NDTF to fund the cost of future decommissioning of Duke
Energy s nuclear units. The NCUC and the PSCSC will consider the results of the funding study, which could potentially increase the annual required contributions to the NDTF, in the latter part of 2009.      Both the NCUC and the PSCSC have allowed Duke Energy to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail rates over the expected remaining service periods of
Duke Energy s nuclear stations. Management believes that the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning.      The operating licenses for Duke Energy s nuclear units are subject to extension. In December 2003, Duke Energy was granted renewed operating licenses for
Catawba Nuclear Station Units 1 and 2 until 2043 and McGuire Nuclear Station Unit 1 and 2 until 2041 and 2043, respectively. In 2000, Duke Energy was granted a renewed operating license for the Oconee Nuclear Station Units 1 and 2 until 2033 and
Unit 3 until 2034.             8. Risk Management and Hedging Activities and Credit Risk  
     Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products
marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. Exposure to interest rate risk exists as a result of the issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk
from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks
associated with these market fluctuations using various commodity and financial derivative instruments, including swaps, futures, forwards, options and swaptions.         
   131   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             As discussed in Note 1, on January 1, 2008, Duke Energy adopted FSP No. FIN 39-1. In accordance with FSP No. FIN 39-1, Duke
Energy offsets fair value amounts (or amounts that approximate fair value) recognized on its Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cash collateral amounts receivable or payable against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments
executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement. Amounts presented in the table below exclude cash collateral amounts which are disclosed separately in Note 1.             Net Derivative Portfolio Assets (Liabilities) reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets:          
    The amounts in the table above represent the combination of amounts included in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets as a component of Other within Current Assets, Other within Investments and Other Assets, Other within Current Liabilities and Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities.       Commodity Cash Flow Hedges.  Some Duke Energy subsidiaries are exposed to market fluctuations in the prices of various commodities related to their power
generating and natural gas sales and transportation activities. Duke Energy closely monitors the potential impacts of commodity price changes and, where appropriate, enters into contracts to protect margins for a portion of future sales and
generation revenues and fuel expenses. Duke Energy uses commodity instruments, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options, as cash flow hedges for electricity and natural gas transactions. Duke Energy is hedging exposures to the price variability
of these commodities for a maximum period of 2 years.      The ineffective portion of commodity cash flow hedges resulted in an insignificant amount in
2008 and 2007 and a pre-tax gain of approximately $5 million in 2006 and is reported primarily in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The amount recognized for transactions that no
longer qualified as cash flow hedges, which is classified in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, resulted in an insignificant amount in 2008 and 2007 and a loss of approximately $67
million in 2006.       As of December 31, 2008, approximately $24 million of pre-tax deferred net losses on derivative instruments related to
commodity cash flow hedges were accumulated on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in AOCI and are expected to be recognized in earnings during the next twelve months as the hedged transactions occur.        Commodity Fair Value Hedges.  Some Duke Energy subsidiaries may be exposed to changes in the fair value of some unrecognized firm commitments to sell
generated power or natural gas due to market fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices. In the former DENA business, now classified as discontinued operations, Duke Energy evaluated changes in the fair value of such unrecognized firm
commitments due to commodity price changes and, where appropriate, used various instruments to hedge its market risk. Those commodity instruments, such as swaps, futures and forwards, served as fair value hedges for the firm commitments associated
with generated power. The ineffective portion of commodity fair value hedges resulted in no gain or loss in 2008 and 2007, and a pre-tax gain of $7 million in 2006, and is reported primarily in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax
on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy did not have any open commodity fair value hedges.       Normal
Purchases and Normal Sales (NPNS) Exception.  Duke Energy has applied the NPNS scope exception, as provided in SFAS No. 133, interpreted by Derivatives Implementation Group Issue C15,   Scope Exceptions: Normal Purchases and Normal
Sales Exception for Option-Type Contracts and Forward Contracts in Electricity ,  and amended by SFAS No. 149,   Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,   to certain contracts
involving the purchase and sale of electricity at fixed prices in future periods. These contracts, which relate primarily to the delivery of electricity over the next 13 years, are not included in the table above.         
   132   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Interest Rate (Fair Value or Cash Flow) Hedges.  Changes in interest rates expose Duke Energy to risk as a result of its
issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages its interest rate exposure by limiting its variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest
rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include, but is not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. Duke Energy s
existing interest rate derivative instruments and related ineffectiveness were insignificant to its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position in 2008, 2007, and 2006.       As of December 31, 2008, approximately $5 million of pre-tax deferred net losses on terminated interest rate hedges were accumulated on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets in AOCI and are expected to be recognized in earnings during the next twelve months as the hedge transactions occur.        Foreign Currency
(Fair Value, Net Investment or Cash Flow) Hedges.  Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions
within domestic operations. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. dollar and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated
or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. Duke Energy did not enter into or have any open foreign currency derivatives or
net investment hedges during 2008, 2007 or 2006. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of foreign currencies.       Other Derivative Contracts.   Trading . Duke Energy has been exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, electricity and
other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of proprietary trading activities. During 2003, Duke Energy prospectively discontinued proprietary trading. As a result of the Cinergy merger, Duke Energy acquired natural gas and
power marketing and trading operations, conducted primarily through CMT, the results of which have been reflected in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax, from the date of the Cinergy acquisition to the date of sale. As discussed
further in Note 14, in October 2006, the CMT sale transaction was completed and Duke Energy entered into a series of Total Return Swaps (TRS) with Fortis. As of December 31, 2008, all of the underlying contracts that were part of the TRS had
been transferred to Fortis and, as a result, Duke Energy has no future exposure associated with these TRS.       Undesignated . In addition, Duke Energy uses derivative contracts to manage the market risk exposures that arise from energy supply, structured origination, marketing, risk management, and commercial optimization services
to large energy customers, energy aggregators and other wholesale companies, and to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures. This category includes changes in fair value for derivatives that no longer qualify for the NPNS scope exception
and disqualified hedge contracts, unless the derivative contract is subsequently re-designated as a hedge. The contracts in this category as of December 31, 2008 are primarily associated with forward power sales and coal purchases, as well as
forward contracts to purchase SO 2  emission allowances, for the Commercial Power and U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas operations. Duke Energy s exposure to price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size,
length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms.       During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy
included in earnings approximately $75 million of pre-tax losses and approximately $13 million of pre-tax gains, respectively, related to mark-to-market adjustments within Commercial Power which are reported primarily in Non-regulated electric,
natural gas, and other and Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As discussed in Note 1 and Note 4, beginning on December 17, 2008, Commercial Power reapplied the
provisions of SFAS No. 71 to certain portions of its operations due to the passing of SB 221 and the approval of the ESP. The reapplication of SFAS No. 71 on December 17, 2008 resulted in an approximate $67 million after-tax
(approximately $103 million pre-tax) extraordinary gain related to total mark-to-market losses previously recorded in earnings associated with open forward hedge contracts, which the ESP allows to be recovered through an FPP rider. Subsequent to
December 17, 2008, mark-to-market gains and losses on certain open hedge positions related to native load generation will be deferred as regulatory assets or liabilities and recovered through the FPP rider.       In connection with the exiting of the DENA business in 2005, Duke Energy entered into a series of TRS with Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), which are accounted for as
mark-to-market derivatives. The TRS offsets the net fair value of the contracts being sold to Barclays. The fair value of the TRS as of December 31, 2008 is an asset of approximately $30 million, which offsets the net fair value of the
underlying contracts, which is a liability of approximately $30 million. The remaining contracts covered by this TRS are with a single counterparty. Although Duke Energy has transferred the risks associated with these contracts to Barclay s via
the TRS, Duke Energy will continue to facilitate these contracts for their duration.         
   133   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Credit Risk.  Duke Energy s principal customers for power and natural gas marketing and transportation services are
industrial end-users, marketers, local distribution companies and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. Duke Energy has concentrations of receivables from natural gas and electric utilities and their affiliates, as well as
industrial customers and marketers throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect Duke Energy s overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to
credit risk, Duke Energy analyzes the counterparties  financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.      Duke Energy s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. Duke Energy frequently uses master collateral
agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures, primarily in its risk management operations. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established
threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and
liquidate all positions.      Duke Energy also obtains cash, letters of credit or surety bonds from customers to provide credit support outside of
collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on its financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction.             9. Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities        On January 1, 2008, Duke Energy adopted SFAS No. 157. Duke Energy s adoption of SFAS No. 157 is currently limited to financial instruments and to non-financial derivatives as, in February 2008, the FASB
issued FSP FAS 157-2,   Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 Date Posted: February 12, 2008,   (FSP FAS 157-2) which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 until January 1, 2009 for non-financial
assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. There was no cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings for Duke Energy as a result of the adoption of
SFAS No. 157. In accordance with FSP FAS 157-2, the provisions of SFAS No. 157 were not applied to the 2008 annual goodwill impairment test (see Note 11) or to certain non-financial assets acquired from Catamount (see Note 3).   
   SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP in the U.S. and expands disclosure requirements about fair
value measurements. Under SFAS No. 157, fair value is considered to be the exchange price in an orderly transaction between market participants to sell an asset or transfer a liability at the measurement date. The fair value definition under
SFAS No. 157 focuses on an exit price, which is the price that would be received by Duke Energy to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability versus an entry price, which would be the price paid to acquire an asset or received to assume a
liability. Although SFAS No. 157 does not require additional fair value measurements, it applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3, which
illustrated key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that asset is not active. The application of FSP FAS 157-3 did not change the way Duke Energy determined fair value of its financial assets and
liabilities.      Duke Energy determines fair value of financial assets and liabilities based on the following fair value hierarchy, as prescribed by SFAS
No. 157, which prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels:       Level 1
inputs  unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Duke Energy has the ability to access. An active market for the asset or liability is one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with
sufficient frequency and volume to provide ongoing pricing information. Duke Energy does not adjust quoted market prices on Level 1 inputs for any blockage factor.       Level 2 inputs  inputs other than quoted market prices included in Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for the asset or liability. Level 2 inputs include, but are not limited to, quoted prices
for similar assets or liabilities in an active market, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active and inputs other than quoted market prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as
interest rate curves and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities, credit risk and default rates.       Level 3
inputs  unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.      In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,   The Fair Value Option
for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities- including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115   (SFAS No. 159), which permits entities to elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. For
Duke Energy, SFAS No. 159 was effective as of January 1, 2008 and had no impact on amounts  
       
   134   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 presented for periods prior to the effective date. Duke Energy does not currently have any financial assets or financial liabilities for which the provisions of SFAS
No. 159 have been elected. However, in the future, Duke Energy may elect to measure certain financial instruments at fair value in accordance with this standard.      The following table provides the fair value measurement amounts for financial assets and liabilities recorded on Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value at December 31, 2008:         

(a)  
  Approximately $173 million of auction rates securities are included in Other within Investments and Other Assets and approximately $51 million are classified as Short-Term Investments within
Current Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(b)  
  Included in Other within Investments and Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(c)  
  Included in Other within Current Assets and Other within Investments and Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(d)  
  Included in Other within Current Liabilities and Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.        The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis where the
determination of fair value includes significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):             Rollforward of Level 3 Measurements          
        
   135   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Valuation methods of the primary fair value measurements disclosed above are as follows:       Investments in equity securities : Investments in equity securities are typically valued at the closing price in the principal active market as of the last
business day of the quarter. Principal active markets for equity prices include published exchanges such as NASDAQ, NYSE, NYMEX and Chicago Board of Trade, as well as pink sheets, which is an electronic quotation system that displays quotes for
broker-dealers for many over-the-counter securities. Foreign equity prices are translated from their trading currency using the currency exchange rate in effect at the close of the principal active market. Duke Energy does not adjust prices to
reflect for after-hours market activity. The majority of Duke Energy s investments in equity securities are valued using Level 1 measurements.        Investments in available-for-sale auction rate securities : As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has approximately $270 million par value (approximately $224 million fair value) of auction rate securities for which an active
market does not currently exist. All of these securities were valued as of December 31, 2008 using measurements appropriate for Level 3 investments. The methods and significant assumptions used to determine the fair values of Duke Energy s
investment in auction rate debt securities represented a combination of broker-provided quotations and estimations of fair value using validation of such quotations through internal discounted cash flow models which incorporated primarily Duke
Energy s own assumptions as to the term over which such investments will be recovered at par, the current level of interest rates, and the appropriate risk-adjusted (for liquidity and credit) discount rates when relevant observable inputs are
not available to determine present value of such cash flows. Valuations were determined based on a combination of broker quotes, where available, internal modeling of comparable instruments or discounted cash flow analyses. In preparing the
valuations, all significant value drivers were considered, including the underlying collateral. Refer to Notes 10 and 13 for additional information on Duke Energy s investments in auction rate securities.        Investments in debt securities : Most debt investments are valued based on a calculation using interest rate curves and credit spreads applied to the terms of
the debt instrument (maturity and coupon interest rate) and consider the counterparty credit rating. Most debt valuations are Level 2 measures. If the market for a particular fixed income security is relatively inactive or illiquid, the measurement
is a Level 3 measurement. U.S. Treasury debt is typically a Level 1 measurement.       Commodity derivatives : The pricing for commodity derivatives
is primarily a calculated value which incorporates the forward price and is adjusted for liquidity (bid-ask spread), credit or non-performance risk (after reflecting credit enhancements such as collateral) and discounted to present value. The
primary difference between a Level 2 and a Level 3 measurement has to do with the level of activity in forward markets for the commodity. If the market is relatively inactive, the measurement is deemed to be a Level 3 measurement. Some commodity
derivatives are NYMEX contracts, which Duke Energy classifies as Level 1 measurements.       Fair Value Disclosures Required Under SFAS No. 107,
    Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments    .  The fair value of financial instruments, excluding financial assets included in the scope of FAS 157 disclosed in the tables above, is summarized in the
following table. Judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates determined as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, are not necessarily indicative of the amounts Duke Energy could
have realized in current markets.         
       The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivable, accounts payable
and commercial paper are not materially different from their carrying amounts because of the short-term nature of these instruments and/or because the stated rates approximate market rates.             10. Investments in Debt and Equity Securities        Duke Energy applies SFAS No. 115 to its investments in debt and equity securities and classifies its investments primarily into two categories   trading
and available-for-sale. As discussed in Note 1, certain investments in debt and equity securities held in grantor trusts associated with certain deferred compensation plans are classified as trading securities, which are reported at fair value in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets with net realized and unrealized gains and losses included in earnings each period. Substantially all other  
        
   136   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 investments in debt and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities, which are also reported at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Except for certain investments in debt and equity securities, primarily those held in the NDTF, which are discussed separately below, unrealized gains and losses on investments classified as available-for-sale are included in AOCI, unless it is
determined that the carrying value of an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the write-down to fair value is included in earnings. Investments in debt and equity securities are classified as either short-term investments or
long-term investments based on management s intent and ability to sell these securities, taking into consideration illiquidity factors in the current markets with respect to certain short-term investments that have historically provided for a
high degree of liquidity, such as investments in auction rate debt securities.       Duke Energy analyzes all securities classified as
available-for-sale to determine whether a decline in fair value should be considered other-than-temporary. Criteria used to evaluate whether an impairment is other-than-temporary includes, but is not limited to, the length of time over which the
market value has been lower than the cost basis of the investment, the percentage decline compared to the cost of the investment and management s intent and ability to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow
for any anticipated recovery in market value. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the investment is written down to its fair value through a charge to earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2008, Duke
Energy recorded pre-tax other-than-temporary impairment charges of approximately $13 million within Other Income and Expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations to write down the carrying value of certain investments in debt and
equity securities to their estimated fair values, including investments in auction rate debt securities as discussed in Note 13.        Short-term
investments.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy had $51 million and $437 million, respectively, of short-term investments, which consisted primarily of investments in auction rate debt securities that are considered
available-for-sale securities under SFAS No. 115. As discussed further in Note 13, at December 31, 2007, Duke Energy held approximately $430 million of investments in auction rate debt securities and all but approximately $15 million of
these investments were sold at auction in January 2008 at full principal amounts. During the first quarter of 2008, Duke Energy made additional investments of approximately $285 million in auction rate debt securities. At December 31, 2008,
Duke Energy holds approximately $270 million par value of investments in auction rate debt securities that have a carrying value of approximately $224 million. Of this amount, approximately $55 million par value (approximately $51 million carrying
value) of investments in auction rate debt securities are classified as short-term investments at December 31, 2008 as these investments either have a stated maturity within the next 12 months or Duke Energy believes the investments are
reasonably expected to be refunded within the next 12 months based on notification of a refunding plan by the issuer. The remaining balance of investments in auction rate debt securities are included in long-term investments and are discussed
further below. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy purchased short-term investments of approximately $4,277 million, $21,661 million and $31,521 million, respectively, and received proceeds on sales of
approximately $4,424 million, $22,685 million and $30,692 million, respectively.        Other Long-term investments . Duke Energy invests in debt
and equity securities that are held in the NDTF (see Note 7 for further information), in grantor trusts for investments primarily related to certain deferred compensation plans and in the captive insurance investment portfolio. Additionally, as
discussed above and further in Note 13, approximately $215 million par value (approximately $173 million carrying value) of investments in auction rate debt securities have been classified as long-term at December 31, 2008 due to market
illiquidity factors as a result of continued failed auctions. All of these investments are classified as available-for-sale under SFAS No. 115 and, therefore, are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at estimated fair value based on
either quoted market prices or management s best estimate of fair value based on expected future cash flow using appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates. Since management does not intend to use these investments in current operations, these
investments are classified as long-term. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy s other long-term investments had a fair market value of $1,855 million and $2,274 million, respectively.       As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy s NDTF held investments with a fair market value of approximately $1,436 million and $1,929 million,
respectively. The NDTF is managed by independent investment managers with discretion to buy, sell and invest pursuant to the objectives set forth by the trust agreement. Therefore, Duke Energy has limited oversight of the day-to-day management of
the NDTF investments. Since day-to-day investment decisions are not made by management of Duke Energy, the ability to hold investments in unrealized loss positions is outside the control of Duke Energy since buy and sell decisions are made by the
investment manager of the NDTF. Accordingly, other-than-temporary impairment losses are recorded immediately when the fair value of individual investments held in the NDTF is less than the cost basis of the investment. However, pursuant to an order
from the NCUC, all losses associated with investments in the NDTF are deferred as a regulatory asset, thus there is no impact on the earnings of Duke Energy as a result of these other-than-temporary impairment write-downs.         
   137   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              The cost of securities sold is determined using the specific identification method. During the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, Duke Energy purchased long-term investments of approximately $3,076 million, $1,978 million and $1,915 million, respectively, and received proceeds on sales of approximately $3,030 million, $1,928 million and $1,904 million,
respectively. The majority of these purchases and sales relate to activity within the NDTF, including annual contributions to the NDTF of approximately $48 million pursuant to an order by the NCUC (see Note 7).       The estimated fair values of short-term and long-term investments classified as available-for-sale are as follows (in millions):         

(a)  
  Losses of approximately $190 million and $24 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, associated with investments held in the NDTF have been excluded from the table since,
as discussed above, day-to-day investment decisions are not made by management of Duke Energy, thus the ability to hold investments in unrealized loss positions is outside the control of Duke Energy since buy and sell decisions are made by the
investment manager of the NDTF. Accordingly, other-than-temporary impairment losses are recorded immediately when the fair value of individual investments held in the NDTF is less than the cost basis of the investment.        For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, a loss of approximately $1 million, a gain of less than $1 million, and a gain of approximately $57
million (including $51 million reclassified to Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax), respectively, were reclassified out of AOCI into earnings.       Debt securities held, which includes auction rate securities based on the stated maturity date, at December 31, 2008 mature as follows: $18 million in less than one year, $106 million in one to five years, $130 million in
six to ten years and $646 million thereafter.          
   138   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The fair values and gross unrealized losses of available-for-sale equity and debt securities which are in an unrealized loss position
for which other-than-temporary impairment losses have not been recorded, summarized by investment type and length of time that the securities have been in a continuous loss position, are presented in the table below as of December 31, 2008 and
2007.   
 
            11. Goodwill and Intangible Assets  
     Duke Energy evaluates the impairment of goodwill under the guidance of SFAS No. 142. There were no goodwill impairment charges in 2008, 2007 or
2006 as a result of the annual impairment tests required by SFAS No. 142. As discussed further in Note 3, in April 2006, Duke Energy and Cinergy consummated the previously announced merger, which resulted in Duke Energy recording goodwill and
intangible assets of approximately $5.6 billion. The following table shows the components of goodwill at December 31, 2008:             Changes in the Carrying Amount of Goodwill          

(a)  
  As discussed in Note 3, the increase in goodwill in the Commercial Power segment primarily relates to the acquisition of Catamount in September 2008.     

(b)  
  The change in the goodwill balance at International Energy relates to the impacts of foreign exchange rates on the translation of the goodwill balance into U.S. dollars.

(c)  
  As discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses, including the former Natural Gas Transmission business segment.
          
   139   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Intangible Assets       The carrying amount and
accumulated amortization of intangible assets as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, which primarily related to the intangible assets acquired as a part of the merger with Cinergy, are as follows:         

(a)  
  As discussed further below, the increase in wind development rights primarily relates to the acquisition of Catamount in September 2008.        Emission allowances in the table above include emission allowances acquired by Duke Energy as part of the merger with Cinergy, which were recorded at fair value on
the date of the merger, and emission allowances purchased by Duke Energy. Additionally, Duke Energy is allocated certain zero cost emission allowances on an annual basis. The change in the gross carrying value of emission allowances during the years
ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 are as follows:         

(c)  
  See Note 13 for discussion of impairments of the carrying value of emission allowances during the year ended December 31, 2008.        Amortization expense for gas, coal and power contracts and other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $27
million, $57 million and $56 million, respectively.      The table below shows the expected amortization expense for the next five years for intangible
assets as of December 31, 2008. The expected amortization expense includes estimates of emission allowances consumption and estimates of consumption of commodities such as gas and coal under existing contracts. The table below does not include
any estimated amortization related to the wind development projects acquired from Catamount, discussed below, as those projects have not yet commenced commercial operations. The amortization amounts discussed below are estimates. Actual amounts may
differ from these estimates due to such factors as changes in consumption patterns, sales or impairments of emission allowances or other intangible assets, additional intangible acquisitions and other events.         
       
   140   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             As discussed in Note 3, Duke Energy completed the acquisition of Catamount in September 2008, resulting in the recognition of
approximately $117 million of intangible assets related to wind farm development rights. Of this amount, a portion of the intangible asset value was assigned to projects that Duke Energy has plans to dispose of through sale; however, these assets do
not meet the criteria for assets held-for-sale treatment under SFAS No. 144. The intangible assets recorded in connection with the Catamount acquisition primarily represent land use rights and interconnection agreements acquired by Duke Energy
as part of the purchase price. Since these intangible assets relate to development projects for which commercial operations have not commenced, amortization of the intangible asset value assigned to each of these projects will not begin until
commercial operation is achieved. Duke Energy will evaluate the useful lives of these intangible assets as the projects begin commercial operations, which is anticipated to be in the years 2010 through 2012. Duke Energy currently estimates the
useful lives of these projects, once in commercial operation, will be the shorter of the lease term of the land or the estimated lives of the projects, which is approximately 25 years.             Intangible Liabilities       In connection with
the merger with Cinergy in April 2006, Duke Energy recorded an intangible liability of approximately $113 million associated with the RSP in Ohio, which was recognized in earnings over the regulatory period that ended on December 31, 2008. The
carrying amount of this intangible liability was zero and approximately $67 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duke Energy also recorded approximately $56 million of intangible liabilities associated with other power sale
contracts in connection with the merger with Cinergy. The carrying amount of these intangible liabilities was approximately $16 million and $22 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, Duke Energy amortized approximately $73 million, $45 million and $35 million, respectively, to income related to these intangible liabilities. The remaining balance of approximately $16 million will be amortized to income as follows:
approximately $6 million in each of the years 2009 through 2010, and approximately $4 million in 2011. Intangible liabilities are classified as Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.             12. Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Related Party Transactions       Investments in domestic and international affiliates that are not controlled by Duke Energy, but over which it has significant influence, are accounted for using
the equity method. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying amount of investments in affiliates approximated the amount of underlying equity in net assets. Significant investments in affiliates are as follows:       Commercial Power.  As of December 31, 2008, investments primarily consist of Duke Energy s approximate 50% ownership interest in the five Sweetwater
projects (Phase I-V), which are wind power assets located in Texas that were acquired as part of the acquisition of Catamount, which is further described in Note 3.      At December 31, 2007, investments primarily included a 50% interest in South Houston Green Power, L.P. (SHGP). SHGP is a cogeneration facility containing three combustion turbines in Texas City, Texas. Although Duke Energy
owned a significant portion of SHGP, it was not consolidated as Duke Energy did not hold a majority voting control or have the ability to exercise control over SHGP, nor was Duke Energy the primary beneficiary under FIN 46(R). In the fourth quarter
of 2008, Duke Energy finalized an asset swap agreement with the other joint venture owner of SHGP, which gives Duke Energy the option to receive either wind assets or a cash settlement, both of which have a value of approximately $180 million and
which approximates the carrying value of Duke Energy s investment in SHGP. The cash settlement feature will be utilized if the option to receive the wind assets is not exercised within a nine-month window following the commercialization date of
the wind assets. In exchange Duke Energy would surrender its remaining interest in SHGP on the future transaction date. The wind assets are currently anticipated to be in commercial operation in 2009. This transaction, which will be considered a
non-monetary exchange of productive assets with commercial substance, is subject to the accounting guidance in APB Opinion No. 29,   Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions   and SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary
Assets, an Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29  . Duke Energy does not currently expect a significant gain or loss associated with the completion of this transaction.      Effective with the finalization of the asset swap agreement in December 2008, Duke Energy turned over of the operations of SHGP to its equity partner, and Duke
Energy s 50% common equity interest in SHGP was converted to a preferred equity interest, which is considered a cost method investment accounted for under APB 18. Commencing on the turnover date and continuing until either the wind asset is
transferred to Duke Energy or ultimate cash settlement, Duke Energy will receive a fixed monthly payment in lieu of the economic benefit it would have otherwise received as a common equity member of SHGP. This payment is intended to compensate Duke
Energy for  
       
   141   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 normal distributions that it would otherwise be entitled to as an equity owner of SHGP; however, this payment is not economically linked to the actual earnings and
operating results of SHGP.       International Energy.  As of both December 31, 2008 and 2007, investments primarily included a 25% indirect
interest in NMC, which owns and operates a methanol and MTBE business in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, and a 25% indirect interest in Attiki, a natural gas distributor in Athens, Greece. Through August 2007, Duke Energy held a 50% investment interest in
Compa  a de Servicios de Compresi n de Campeche, S.A. de C.V. (Campeche), a natural gas compression facility in the Cantarell oil field in the Gulf of Mexico. Campeche project revenues were generated from a gas compression
services agreement (GCSA) with the Mexican National Oil Company (PEMEX). Upon the expiration of the GCSA with PEMEX in August 2007, the operations of Campeche were transferred to PEMEX and International Energy had no subsequent involvement with
Campeche. See Note 13 for discussion of other than temporary impairment charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2006 against the carrying value of the Campeche investment and related notes receivable.       Other.  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, investments primarily include telecommunications investments and Duke Energy s effective 50% interest in
Crescent. As described further in Note 2, effective in the fourth quarter of 2008, Crescent is no longer a reportable business segment of Duke Energy and all historical results of Crescent have been reflected in Other. Additionally, as described
further in Note 3, Duke Energy deconsolidated Crescent as of September 7, 2006 as a result of a reduction in ownership to an effective 50% interest and subsequently accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting up through
September 30, 2008.       Crescent has long-term debt of approximately $1.4 billion, all of which is non-recourse to Duke Energy. Prior to the
June 2008 debt amendments discussed below, approximately $1.2 billion of the long-term debt balance was term debt due in September 2012 with only very minor amounts due prior to that date. Crescent s debt agreements had certain financial
covenants that were required to be met on a quarterly basis. Due to the sustained downturn in overall economic conditions, including the real estate markets in areas in which Crescent holds properties, Crescent management determined that it could be
in violation of one or more of its debt covenants in the near-term absent amendments to its debt agreements. In June 2008, Crescent renegotiated amendments to its debt agreements, including modifications to certain financial covenants. Under the
terms of the amended debt agreements, Crescent is still obligated to pay down the entire term loan amount of $1.2 billion by September 2012, with cumulative repayments of $225 million through December 31, 2011, ($50 million, $75 million, and
$100 million to be paid in the periods ending December 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011 respectively), with the remainder due in 2012. Under the terms of the new debt agreement, Crescent was required to have its properties appraised by an independent
third party no later than February 28, 2009. Had the appraisals indicated that Crescent s Loan-to-Value Ratio (Total Indebtedness/ Qualifying Assets Value) was greater than 80%, Crescent would be in violation of certain debt covenants. All
of the property appraisals were completed prior to February 28, 2009 and Crescent s Loan-to-Value Ratio was less than 80%. As of December 31, 2008, Crescent maintained an overall debt balance of approximately $1.4 billion, of which
approximately $230 million relates to a revolving credit facility.       In connection with the renegotiation of the debt agreements in the second
quarter of 2008, Crescent management modified its existing business strategy to focus some of its efforts on producing near-term cash flows from its non-strategic real estate projects in order to improve liquidity and reduce debt, in an environment
which favors buyers. Crescent s management continues to view a significant portion of its real estate projects as strategic assets. The new focus in accelerating cash flows from certain of its non-strategic assets in 2008 and 2009 may enable
Crescent to meet its new and accelerated debt service obligations and ultimately improve its capitalization. Crescent s objective with this strategy is to ultimately allow it greater financial flexibility in maximizing the long-term value of
its strategic assets.      As a result of its revised business strategy to accelerate certain cash flows resulting from the June 2008 amendments to its
debt agreements and the continued deterioration of the real estate and credit markets, Crescent prepared its recoverability assessments for its real estate projects as required under SFAS No. 144. Under SFAS No. 144, the carrying amount of
a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. For certain of Crescent s assets, it was determined that projected undiscounted
cash flows did not exceed the carrying value of the projects based on the revised business strategy assumptions, and impairment losses were recorded equal to the amount by which the carrying amount of each impaired project exceeded its estimated
fair value. The methods for determining fair value included independent third party appraisals and discounted cash flow models, as well as valuing certain properties based on recent offer prices for bulk-sale transactions and other price data for
similar assets. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Crescent recorded impairment charges on certain of its property holdings, primarily in its residential division, of which Duke Energy s proportionate pre-tax share was
approximately $238 million and $32 million, respectively. Duke Energy s proportionate share of Crescent s impairment charges are recorded in Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates in Duke Energy s Consolidated
Statements of Operations.         
   142   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             As a result of Duke Energy recording its proportionate share of Crescent s impairment losses, the carrying value of Duke
Energy s investment in Crescent was reduced to zero at September 30, 2008. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, in accordance with APB 18 ,  Duke Energy suspended applying the equity method of accounting to its investment in
Crescent since its investment has been reduced to zero. Accordingly, Duke Energy did not record any additional losses during the fourth quarter of 2008. However, should Crescent begin reporting net income in future periods, Duke Energy may resume
applying the equity method of accounting after its proportionate share of that net income equals the share of net losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended since Duke Energy continues to exercises significant influence
over the operations and financial policies of Crescent.       See Note 19 for discussion of certain guarantees Duke Energy has issued on behalf of
Crescent.              Investments in Equity Method Unconsolidated Affiliates    

(a)  
  Other includes Duke Energy s effective 50% interest in Crescent. As discussed above, Duke Energy s investment in Crescent was written down to zero during 2008.

(b)  
  During the year ended December 31, 2008, Duke Energy recorded pre-tax impairment charges to write-down the carrying value of certain equity method investments to their estimated fair
value. These impairment charges are included in Losses on Sales and Impairments of Equity Investments in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.                Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Equity Method Unconsolidated Affiliates           

(a)  
  Other includes equity earnings and losses of Crescent for all periods. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately $15 million represents Duke Energy s effective 50%
interest in Crescent earnings subsequent to deconsolidation in September 2006.     

(b)  
  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 include Duke Energy s proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent of approximately $238 million pre-tax.

(c)  
  Excludes equity in earnings of approximately $609 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, primarily related to
equity method investments held by the natural gas businesses and included in Duke Energy s spin-off of Spectra Energy on January 2, 2007.         Duke Energy s share of net earnings from these unconsolidated affiliates is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy received distributions from equity investments of approximately $195 million, $147 million and $893 million, respectively. Of these amounts, approximately $195 million, $147 million and $741 million
are included in Other, assets within Cash Flows from Operating Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and approximately $152 million are included
in Distributions from Equity Investments within Cash Flows from Investing Activities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2006.   

143   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Summarized Combined Financial Information of Equity Method Unconsolidated Affiliates          

(a)  
  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 include equity investments related to the natural gas businesses that were included in the spin-off to shareholders on January 2, 2007
for which equity earnings are included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, for periods prior to the spin-off. Additionally, amounts for Crescent are included from the date of deconsolidation (September 7, 2006) and thereafter.
          Related Party Transactions.  Notes receivable from unconsolidated affiliates, which are included in Receivables on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets, were $292 million and $299 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which represents Duke Energy Ohio s and Duke Energy Indiana s notes receivable from Cinergy Receivables Company LLC
(Cinergy Receivables). See Note 23 for additional information.      Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana sell their receivables to Cinergy
Receivables. During 2008, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana collectively sold approximately $5.7 billion of receivables to Cinergy Receivables and received approximately $5.7 billion in proceeds from the sales, including the notes receivable.
During 2007, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana collectively sold approximately $5.3 billion of receivables to Cinergy Receivables and received approximately $5.1 billion in proceeds from the sales, including the notes receivable. See Note 23
for further information.      Advance SC LLC, which provides funding for economic development projects, educational initiatives, and other programs, was
formed during 2004. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas made donations of approximately $11 million, $8 million and $24 million to the unconsolidated subsidiary during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Additionally,
at both December 31, 2008 and 2007, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas had a trade payable to Advance SC LLC of approximately $11 million.      In
early 2008, Duke Energy began discussions with Crescent to purchase certain parcels of land in North Carolina and South Carolina that potentially have strategic value to Duke Energy s regulated operations in those states. During the second
quarter of 2008, Duke Energy had independent third party appraisals performed for each parcel of land in order to assist in the determination of a potential purchase price. In June 2008, Duke Energy acquired approximately 12,700 acres of land for a
purchase price of approximately $51 million. Crescent recorded a gain on the sale. Since Duke Energy is a joint venture owner in Crescent, its proportionate share of the gain was eliminated and instead recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount
of the purchased real estate in accordance with SOP 78-9,   Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures.            
   144   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Prior to August 2007, International Energy loaned money to Campeche to assist in the costs to build. International Energy received
principal and interest payments of approximately $28 million and $11 million from Campeche during 2007 and 2006, respectively.      The following related
party transactions relate to activity with and among businesses included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses in January 2007 and are included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations, except where noted:      In December 2005, Duke Energy completed a 140 million Canadian dollars initial public offering on its Canadian
income trust fund (the Income Fund) and sold 14 million Trust Units at an offering price of 10 Canadian dollars per Trust Unit. In January 2006, a subsequent greenshoe sale of 1.4 million additional Trust Units, pursuant to an
overallotment option, were sold at a price of 10 Canadian dollars per Trust Unit. Subsequent to the January 2006 sale of additional Trust Units, Duke Energy held an approximate 58% ownership interest in the businesses of the Income Fund. Proceeds of
approximately 14 million Canadian dollars are included in Proceeds from Duke Energy Income Fund within Cash Flows from Financing Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In September 2006, the Income Fund sold approximately
9 million previously unissued Trust Units at a price of 12.15 Canadian dollars per Trust Unit for total proceeds of 104 million Canadian dollars, net of commissions and expenses of other expenses of issuance, which is included in Proceeds
from Duke Energy Income Fund within Cash Flows from Financing Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The sale of approximately 9 million Trust Units reduced Duke Energy s ownership interest in the businesses of the Income
Fund to approximately 46% at December 31, 2006. The Income Fund was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007. As a result of the sale of additional Trust Units, Duke Energy recognized an approximate $15
million pre-tax gain on the sale of subsidiary stock during the year ended December 31, 2006. The proceeds from the offering plus the draw down of approximately 39 million Canadian dollars on an available credit facility were used by the
Income Fund to acquire a 100% interest in Westcoast Gas Services, Inc. There were no deferred taxes recorded as a result of this transaction.      For the
year ended December 31, 2006, Duke Energy had gas sales to, purchases from, and other operating revenues from affiliates of DCP Midstream of approximately $137 million, $41 million and $12 million, respectively. Additionally, Duke Energy
received approximately $725 million for its share of distributions paid by DCP Midstream in 2006. Of these distributions $573 million was included in Other, assets within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the year ended 2006, and
approximately $152 million was included in Distributions from Equity Investments within Cash Flows from Investing Activities for the year ended 2006 within the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.             Summary Condensed Financial Information       Item 4-08(g) of Regulation S-X requires the presentation of summarized financial information for individual equity method investments that meet certain
quantitative thresholds.      Accordingly, summarized financial information for Crescent, which has been accounted for under the equity method since
September 7, 2006 is as follows:         

(a)  
  Includes the gain recorded by Crescent on the sale of land to Duke Energy that was eliminated by Duke Energy as discussed further above.            
       
   145   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Summarized financial information for DCP Midstream, which had equity earnings of approximately $574 million included in Income (Loss)
from Discontinued Operations, net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations during the year ended December 31, 2006 and was included in the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007, is as follows:         
    Also see Notes 3, 19 and 23 for additional related party information.             13. Impairments, Severance, and Other Charges          Auction Rate Security Investments.   At December 31, 2007, Duke Energy held approximately $430 million of investments in auction rate debt
securities and all but approximately $15 million of these investments were sold at auction in January 2008 at full principal amounts. During the first quarter of 2008, Duke Energy made additional investments of approximately $285 million in auction
rate debt securities, which primarily consisted of investments in AAA rated student loan securities that are viewed as having minimal credit risk as substantially all values are ultimately backed by the U.S. government. These securities are treated
as available-for-sale securities under SFAS No. 115. At the end of the first quarter of 2008, Duke Energy reclassified its approximate $300 million par value of investments in auction rate debt securities from short-term to long-term as an
active market for these investments did not exist. During the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately $30 million of auction rate debt security investments were refunded by the issuer and the proceeds received by Duke Energy represented
full principal and interest amounts. As of the end of each quarter throughout 2008, management of Duke Energy performed valuations of its investment in auction rate debt securities (consistent with provisions of SFAS No. 157 see Note 9 for
further information on the methods utilized to determine fair value) to determine if the carrying value of these investments exceeded their estimated fair value and, if so, whether the decline in fair value was considered temporary or
other-than-temporary. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of the investments in auction rate debt securities was determined to be lower than the par value of the securities by approximately $46 million. Based on an analysis of specific
facts and circumstances, management believes that the majority of these investments are viewed as having minimal credit risk (as discussed above) and Duke Energy has the intent and ability to hold these securities until the credit markets regain
liquidity, the instruments are refunded by the issuer at their stated par values or maturity. Accordingly, approximately $43 million of the decline in value was considered temporary and recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive Income. The
remaining $3 million reduction in carrying value was charged to expense as management had concluded this impairment to be other-than-temporary. This conclusion was based in part on a loss in value in the underlying collateral supporting the par
value of these securities, which is not supported by insurance or backed by the U.S. government. At December 31, 2008, the par value and carrying value of Duke Energy s investments in auction rate debt securities was approximately $270
million and $224 million, respectively.       At December 31, 2008, approximately $51 million of the fair value of investments in auction rate
debt securities are classified as Short-Term Investments within current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with the remaining approximately $173 million classified as long-term investments in Other within Investments and Other Assets on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The investments classified as short-term either have a stated maturity within the next 12 months or Duke Energy believes the investments are reasonably expected to be refunded within the next 12 months based on a
notification of a refunding plan by the issuer.       Management will continue to monitor the carrying value of its entire portfolio of investments in
the future to determine if any additional other-than-temporary impairment losses should be recorded. See Note 1 for Duke Energy s policy on reviewing the carrying value of investments to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment exists.
        Emission Allowances.   On July 11, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia issued a decision vacating the CAIR. In December 2008, a federal appeals court reinstated the CAIR while the EPA develops a new clean air program (see Note 18 for additional information). However, as a result of the
July 11, 2008 decision temporarily vacating the CAIR, there were sharp declines in market prices of SO 2  and NO x  allowances in the third quarter of 2008 due to uncertainty associated with future federal requirements to
reduce emissions. Accordingly, pursuant to SFAS No. 144, Duke Energy evaluated the carrying value of emission allowances held by its regulated and non-regulated businesses for impairment during the third quarter of 2008.         
   146   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              At the time of its repeal, the CAIR required 50% reductions in
SO 2  emissions beginning in 2010 and further 30% reductions in SO 2  emissions in 2015 beyond specified requirements. These reductions were to be achieved by requiring the surrender of SO 2  allowances in a ratio of two
allowances per ton of SO 2  emitted beginning in 2010, up from a current one-to-one ratio, escalating to 2.86 allowances per ton of SO 2  emitted beginning in 2015. Taking into account these increases in emission allowance
requirements under the CAIR, Commercial Power s forecasted SO 2  emissions needed through 2037 exceeded the number of emission allowances held prior to the vacating of the CAIR. Subsequent to the decision to vacate the CAIR, Commercial
Power determined that it had SO 2  allowances in excess of forecasted emissions and those allowances held in excess of forecasted emissions from future generation required an impairment evaluation. In performing the impairment evaluation
for SO 2  allowances in the third quarter of 2008, management compared quoted market prices for each vintage year allowance to the carrying value of the related allowances in excess of forecasted emissions through 2038. Due to the sharp
decline in market prices of SO 2  allowances, as discussed above, during the third quarter of 2008, Commercial Power recorded pre-tax impairment charges of approximately $77 million related to forecasted excess SO 2  allowances
held. Additionally, Commercial Power recorded pre-tax impairment charges of approximately $5 million in the third quarter of 2008 related to annual NO x  allowances as these were also affected by the decision to vacate the CAIR. These
impairment charges are recorded in Impairments Charges within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Additionally, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas had emission allowances and certain commitments to purchase
emission allowances that, based on management s best estimate in the third quarter of 2008 due to the vacation of the CAIR, resulted in a quantity of emission allowances in excess of the amounts projected to be utilized for operations. The
excess emission allowances include forward contracts to purchase SO 2  allowances to cover forecasted shortfalls in emission allowances necessary for operations that were entered into prior to the July 11, 2008 CAIR decision. Prior to
the vacating of the CAIR, these forward contracts, which primarily settle in the fourth quarter of 2008 and 2009, qualified for the NPNS exception under SFAS No. 133, as amended. However, since certain of these forward contracts were no longer
considered probable of use in the normal course of operations at the time the impairment analysis was performed due to the excess over forecasted needs, in the third quarter of 2008, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas determined that these contracts
no longer qualified for the NPNS exception under SFAS No. 133. At the time this determination was made, the fair value of the contracts was a liability of approximately $34 million. Since U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas anticipates regulatory
recovery of the cost of these emission allowances in normal course, a corresponding regulatory asset was recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of these contracts at December 31, 2008 was approximately $32 million. These
forward contracts will continue to be marked-to-market, with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability balance, until ultimate settlement.      As a
result of the reinstatement of the CAIR, as discussed above, all emission allowances and certain commitments to purchase emission allowances held by Commercial Power and U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas as of December 31, 2008 are anticipated
to be utilized for future emission allowance requirements under the CAIR, unless the EPA develops a new clean air program that changes the existing requirements under the CAIR.      See Note 11 for further information regarding the carrying value of emission allowances.        International Energy   .  During the year ended December 31, 2006, International Energy recorded other than temporary impairment charges of
approximately $50 million related to an investment in Campeche. Campeche project revenues were generated from a GCSA with PEMEX. The charges consist of a $17 million impairment of the carrying value of the equity method investment, which has
been classified within Losses on Sales and Impairments of Equity Investments in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and a $33 million reserve against notes receivable from Campeche, which has been classified within
Operations, Maintenance and Other in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.      The GCSA expired in August 2007 and ownership of the
facility transferred to PEMEX.       Discontinued Operations.  See Note 14 for impairments related to discontinued operations.        Severance and Other Charge   s.  During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy recorded severance charges of
approximately $1 million, $20 million and $134 million, respectively, primarily under its ongoing severance plan. Of the amount for the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately $12 million related to a voluntary termination program whereby
eligible employees were provided a window during which to accept termination benefits. A total of 117 employees accepted the termination benefits during the voluntary window period, which closed in June 2007. Future severance costs under Duke
Energy s ongoing severance plan, if any, are not currently estimable. The liabilities recorded during the year ended December 31, 2006 related to voluntary and involuntary severance as a result of the merger with Cinergy (see Note 3), of
which approximately $89 million was charged to expense  
       
   147   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 within income from continuing operations and approximately $45 million was recorded as a component of goodwill. Additionally, in connection with Duke Energy s
spin-off of Spectra Energy, Duke Energy recognized approximately $12 million of severance costs under its ongoing severance plan, which is included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.         

(a)  
  Liability was transferred as part of the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007.     

(b)  
  Severance provisions are expected to be paid within one year from the date that the provision was recorded.     

(c)  
  Severance expense included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations was approximately $3 million for 2006.
          Post-Retirement Benefits   .  In July 2007, Duke Energy offered a voluntary early retirement incentive plan to
approximately 1,100 eligible employees. The special termination benefit that was offered was a healthcare reimbursement account that could be used by participants for reimbursement of qualifying medical expenses. There were no severance benefits
offered in connection with this plan. The window for acceptance of these voluntary termination benefits closed on August 15, 2007. During the three months ended September 30, 2007, approximately 170 employees accepted the offer and,
pursuant to SFAS No. 88,   Employers  Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits ,  Duke Energy recorded a charge of approximately $8 million pre-tax related to
this voluntary plan.              14. Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale  
               Spin-off of Natural Gas Businesses   
      As discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of Spectra Energy, which principally consisted of Duke
Energy s former Natural Gas Transmission business segment and Duke Energy s former 50% ownership interest in DCP Midstream, to Duke Energy shareholders. The results of operations of these businesses are presented in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations as discontinued operations for all periods prior to the spin-off. Assets and liabilities of entities included in the spin-off of Spectra Energy were transferred from Duke Energy on a historical cost basis on the
date of the spin-off transaction. No gain or loss was recognized on the distribution of these operations to Duke Energy shareholders. Approximately $20.5 billion of assets, $14.9 billion of liabilities (which includes approximately $8.6 billion of
debt) and $5.6 billion of common stockholders  equity (which includes approximately $1.0 billion of accumulated other comprehensive income) were distributed from Duke Energy as of the date of the spin-off.      Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes pre-tax interest expense of approximately $600 million
associated with the debt distributed in the spin-off of Spectra Energy, as well as losses of approximately $19 million, which were previously classified in Other, resulting from mark-to-market movements in discontinued hedges at DCP Midstream.
        
   148   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Additionally, Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 includes
pre-tax amounts of approximately $18 million and $60 million, respectively, related to costs to achieve the Spectra Energy spin-off, primarily fees to outside service providers. In the table below, these amounts are included in Other for the year
ended December 31, 2007 and in Spectra Energy for the year ended December 31, 2006.      Effective with the spin-off, Duke Energy and Spectra
Energy entered into a Transition Services Agreement (TSA), which expired on December 31, 2007, whereby Duke Energy provided certain support services to Spectra Energy. The amount received by Duke Energy during the year ended December 31,
2007 under this TSA was approximately $15 million. Additionally, as anticipated, Duke Energy has had very limited commercial business activities with Spectra Energy subsequent to the spin-off.      Additionally, effective with the spin-off, Duke Energy and Spectra Energy entered into various reinsurance and other related agreements that allocated certain
assets to Spectra Energy and DCP Midstream created under insurance coverage provided prior to the spin-off by Duke Energy s captive insurance subsidiary and third party reinsurance companies. Under these agreements, Spectra Energy s
captive insurance subsidiary reinsured 100% of Duke Energy s retained risk under the insurance coverage provided prior to the spin-off. Consistent with the terms of the reinsurance agreement entered into while all parties were under the common
control of Duke Energy, Duke Energy paid approximately $95 million in cash to Spectra Energy s captive insurance company, which was placed in a grantor trust to secure Spectra Energy s obligation to Duke Energy under the Spectra Energy
reinsurance agreements. This transfer is reflected in Cash distributed to Spectra Energy within financing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had a total liability to Spectra Energy and
DCP Midstream related to these agreements of approximately $85 million, which is reflected in both Other Current Liabilities and Other Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This liability is offset by a
corresponding receivable, of which approximately $20 million was due from Spectra Energy s captive insurance subsidiary under the Spectra Energy reinsurance agreement and approximately $65 million was due from third party reinsurance companies.
These amounts are reflected in both Other Current Assets and Other Investments and Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In the event any of the reinsurance companies deny coverage for any of the claims covered under these agreements,
Duke Energy is not obligated to pay Spectra Energy or DCP Midstream. Further, Duke Energy is providing no insurance coverage to Spectra Energy or DCP Midstream for events which occur subsequent to the spin-off date.       At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy had an approximate $49 million and $44 million receivable, respectively, from Spectra Energy related to certain
income tax items.      Also refer to Notes 2, 7, 11, 12, 13, 19, 21 and 22 for additional information related to the spin-off transaction.   
   The following table summarizes the results classified as Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements
of Operations.         
   149   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Discontinued Operations (in millions)          
    Amounts for Spectra Energy and Other for the year ended December 31, 2006 in the table above are net of
insignificant intercompany eliminations.      The following table presents the carrying values of the major classes of Assets Held for Sale and related
Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007, which primarily relate to Duke Energy Indiana s Wabash River Power Station, the sale of which was completed in January 2008 (see
Note 3). There were no Assets Held for Sale and related Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008.       
      Summarized Balance Sheet Information for Assets and Associated Liabilities Held for Sale          

December 31, 2007    

(in millions)    
 
    Current assets   
      
  $  
  2   
 
    Property, plant and equipment, net   

115   

Total assets held for sale   
      
  $  
  117   

Current liabilities   
      
  $  
  114   
 
    Deferred credits and other liabilities   

3   

Total liabilities associated with assets held for sale   
      
  $  
  117   

150   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              As discussed above, the results of operations for all of the businesses transferred to Spectra Energy are presented as
discontinued operations for all periods presented. Significant transactions occurring during the year ended December 31, 2006 related to the operations transferred to Spectra Energy and significant transactions occurring during the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 within the other operations of Duke Energy that resulted in discontinued operations presentation are discussed below. Transactions under Spectra Energy primarily include transactions at Duke Energy s former
Natural Gas Transmission and Field Services business segments.              Year Ended
December 31, 2008               Commercial Power        In February 2008, Duke Energy entered into an agreement to sell its 480 MW natural gas-fired peaking generating station located near Brownsville, Tennessee to
Tennessee Valley Authority for approximately $55 million. This transaction, which was subject to FERC approval, closed in April 2008. This transaction resulted in Duke Energy recognizing an approximate $23 million pre-tax gain at closing.
            Year Ended December 31, 2007               Commercial Power        Due to the expiration of certain tax credits (see Note 18), Duke Energy ceased all synthetic fuel (synfuel) operations as of December 31, 2007. Accordingly,
the results of operations for synfuel have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2007, synfuel operations had after-tax earnings of approximately $23 million, which includes tax
benefits of approximately $84 million.              International Energy
       In February 2007, International Energy finalized the approximate $20 million sale of it 50-percent ownership interest in two hydroelectric
power plants near Cochabamba, Bolivia to Econergy International. As discussed below, International Energy recorded an impairment charge in 2006 related to certain assets in Bolivia in connection with this sale. As a result of the sale, International
Energy no longer has any assets in Bolivia and the results of operations for Bolivia have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.             Year Ended December 31, 2006               Spectra Energy        As a result of the transfer of
19.7% interest in DCP Midstream to ConocoPhillips and the third quarter 2005 deconsolidation of its investment in DCP Midstream, Duke Energy discontinued hedge accounting for certain contracts held by Duke Energy related to Field Services 
commodity price risk, which were previously accounted for as cash flow hedges. These contracts were originally entered into as hedges of forecasted future sales by Field Services, and have been retained as undesignated derivatives. After
discontinuance of hedge accounting, these contracts were marked-to-market in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result, approximately $19 million of realized and unrealized pre-tax losses related to these contracts were recognized in
earnings by Duke Energy for the year ended December 31, 2006. Cash settlements on these contracts of approximately $163 million are classified as a component of Net cash used in investing activities in the accompanying Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2006.      The sale of certain Stone Mountain natural gas gathering system assets resulted in proceeds
of $18 million (which is reflected in Net proceeds from the sales of equity investments and other assets, and sales of and collections on notes receivable within Cash Flows from Investing Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows), and
pre-tax gain of $5 million. In addition, the sale of shares of stock, received as consideration for the settlement of a customer s transportation contract, resulted in proceeds of approximately $29 million (which is reflected in Other, assets
within Cash Flows from Operating Activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows) and a pre-tax gain equivalent to the proceeds received from the sale of stock.      As a result of a settlement of a property insurance claim, proceeds of approximately $30 million were received and a pre-tax gain of $10 million was recognized.         
   151   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)               Commercial Power        In
June 2006, Duke Energy announced it had reached an agreement to sell CMT, as well as certain Duke Energy Ohio trading contracts, to Fortis, a Benelux-based financial services group. In October 2006, the sale transaction was completed. Under the
purchase and sale agreement, Fortis purchased CMT at a base price of approximately $210 million. In addition, Fortis paid approximately $200 million for the portfolio of contracts and an amount equal to the estimated net working capital associated
with these companies at the time of close. In October 2006, Duke Energy received total pre-tax cash proceeds of approximately $700 million and recorded an approximate $25 million pre-tax gain on the sale. Income tax expense recorded as a result of
this transaction relates to the approximate $135 million of goodwill that was not deductible for tax purposes, thus creating a taxable gain that was greater than the gain for book purposes. Results of operations for CMT, as well as certain Duke
Energy Ohio trading contracts, have been reflected in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax, from the date of the Cinergy merger through the date of sale.      In October 2006, in connection with this transaction, Duke Energy entered into a series of TRS with Fortis, which are accounted for as mark-to-market derivatives. The TRS offsets the net fair value of the contracts being sold
to Fortis. The TRS will be cancelled for each underlying contract as each is transferred to Fortis. All economic and credit risk associated with the contracts has been transferred to Fortis as of the date of the sale through the TRS.      As discussed above, due to the expiration of certain tax credits, Duke Energy ceased all synfuel operations as of December 31, 2007. Accordingly, the results
of operations for synfuel have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2006, synfuel operations had after-tax earnings of approximately $3 million, which includes tax benefits of
approximately $20 million.              International Energy
       International Energy had a receivable from Norsk Hydro ASA (Norsk) that related to purchase price adjustments on the 2003 sale of
International Energy s European business. During the first quarter of 2006, International Energy recorded an allowance of approximately $19 million pre-tax ($12 million after-tax) against this receivable. During the second quarter of 2006,
International Energy and Norsk signed a settlement agreement in which Norsk agreed to pay International Energy approximately $34 million in full settlement of International Energy s receivable. In connection with this settlement, International
Energy recorded an approximate $9 million pre-tax (approximately $5 million after-tax) write-up of the receivable through a reduction in the valuation allowance. This receivable was collected in July 2006.      As discussed above, in December 2006, International Energy engaged in discussions with a potential buyer of its assets in Bolivia. Such discussions to sell the
assets were subject to a binding agreement between the parties, which was finalized in February 2007, as discussed above, and resulted in the sale of International Energy s 50 percent ownership interest in two hydroelectric power plants near
Cochabamba, Bolivia to Econergy International for approximately $20 million. Based upon the agreed selling price of the assets, in December 2006, International Energy recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $28 million. The impairment
charge reduced the carrying value of the assets to the estimated selling price pursuant to the aforementioned agreement. International Energy recorded an approximate $25 million income tax benefit associated with the impairment charge, which was
recorded within continuing operations as prescribed by SFAS No. 109,   Accounting for Income Taxes.                 Other        During the third quarter of 2005, Duke
Energy s Board of Directors authorized and directed management to execute the sale or disposition of substantially all of former DENA s remaining assets and contracts outside the Midwestern United States and certain contractual positions
related to the Midwestern assets. Approximately $700 million was incurred from the announcement date through December 31, 2006, of which approximately $230 million was incurred during the year ended December 31, 2006. As of
December 31, 2006 the former DENA exit activities had been substantially complete and no additional material charges were incurred.      In January
2006, Duke Energy signed an agreement to sell to LS Power former DENA s entire fleet of power generation assets outside the Midwest, representing approximately 6,100 megawatts of power generation located in the Western and Northeastern United
States. In May 2006, the transaction with LS Power closed and total proceeds from the sale were approximately $1.56 billion, including certain working capital adjustments. Additional proceeds of up to approximately $40 million were subject to LS
Power obtaining certain state regulatory approvals. On July 20, 2006 the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California approved a toll arrangement related  
       
   152   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 to the Moss Landing facility previously sold to LS Power. In August 2006, LS Power made an additional payment to Duke Energy of approximately $40 million, which
was recorded as an additional gain on the sale of assets.      During the first quarter of 2006, Duke Energy acquired the remaining 33 1/3% interest in
Bridgeport Energy LLC (Bridgeport) from United Bridgeport Energy LLC for approximately $71 million. The assets and liabilities of Bridgeport were included as part of former DENA s power generation assets, which were sold to a subsidiary of LS
Power, as discussed above.             15. Property, Plant and Equipment          

Capitalized interest, which includes the interest expense component of AFUDC, amounted to $93 million for 2008, $71 million for 2007, and $56 million for 2006.
        
   153   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              16. Debt and Credit Facilities              Summary of Debt and Related Terms          

(b)  
  Includes $450 million and $300 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, that was classified as Long-term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the existence of
long-term credit facilities which back-stop these commercial paper balances, along with Duke Energy s ability and intent to refinance these balances on a long-term basis. The weighted-average days to maturity, for the commercial paper balance
of approximately $714 million, was 10 days as of December 31, 2008 and 17 days as of December 31, 2007.     

(c)  
  Includes approximately $279 million at December 31, 2008 related to Duke Energy Ohio s drawdown under the master credit facility.     
 
     Unsecured and Other Debt.  In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas refunded $100 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through
the issuance of $100 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due November 1, 2040, had an initial interest rate of 2.15% which is reset on
a weekly basis.      In June 2008, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior notes, of which $250 million carries a fixed interest rate
of 5.65% and matures June 15, 2013 and $250 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.25% and matures June 15, 2018. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy s
nonregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.      In October 2008, International Energy issued approximately $153 million of
debt in Brazil, of which approximately $112 million matures in September 2013 and carries a variable interest rate equal to the Brazil interbank rate plus 2.15%, and approximately $41 million matures in September 2015 and carries a fixed interest
rate of 11.6% plus an annual inflation index. International Energy used these proceeds to pre-pay existing long-term debt balances.      In December 2008,
Duke Energy Kentucky refunded $50 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are
due August 1, 2027, had an initial interest rate of 0.65% which is reset on a weekly basis.      In January 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $271
million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $271 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by direct-pay letters of credit, of which $144 million had initial rates of 0.7% reset on a weekly basis with
$44 million maturing May 2035, $23 million maturing March 2031 and $77 million maturing December 2039. The remaining $127 million had initial rates of 0.50% reset on a daily basis with $77 million maturing December 2039 and $50 million maturing
October 2040.      In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of 6.30% senior notes due February 1, 2014. Proceeds from the
issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.         
   154   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             In June 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $500 million principal amount of 6.10% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2037. The
net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper that was issued to repay outstanding $249 million 6.6% Insured Quarterly Senior Notes due 2022 on April 30, 2007, and approximately $110 million of convertible senior notes
discussed below. The remainder was used for general corporate purposes.      In November 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $100 million in tax-exempt
floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2040. The initial interest rate was set at 3.65%. The bonds were issued through the North
Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Belews Creek and Allen Steam Stations.      In December 2007, Duke Energy Ohio issued $140 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2041. The
initial interest rate was set at 4.85%. The bonds were issued through the Ohio Air Quality Development Authority to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Conesville, Stuart and Killen Generation Stations in Ohio.
      Auction Rate Debt  .  As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had auction rate pollution control bonds outstanding of approximately $730
million. While these debt instruments are long-term in nature and cannot be put back to Duke Energy prior to maturity, the interest rates on these instruments are designed to reset periodically through an auction process. In February 2008, Duke
Energy began to experience failed auctions for these debt instruments. When failed auctions occur on a series of this debt, Duke Energy is required to begin paying a failed-auction interest rate on the instrument. The failed-auction interest rate
for the majority of the auction rate debt is 2.0 times one-month LIBOR. Payment of the failed-auction interest rates will continue until Duke Energy is able to either successfully remarket these instruments through the auction process, or refund and
refinance the existing debt. Duke Energy has plans to refund and refinance its remaining tax-exempt bonds, the timing of such refinancing activities is uncertain and subject to market conditions. If Duke Energy is unable to successfully refund and
refinance these debt instruments, the impact of paying higher interest rates on the outstanding auction rate debt is not expected to materially effect Duke Energy s overall financial position, results of operations or cash flows.       Convertible Senior Notes.  In May 2003, Duke Energy issued approximately $770 million of 1.75% convertible senior notes that were convertible into Duke Energy
common stock at a premium of 40% above the May 1, 2003 closing common stock market price of $16.85 per share. The conversion of these senior notes into shares of Duke Energy common stock was contingent upon the occurrence of certain events
during specified periods. During 2006, as a result of the market price of Duke Energy common stock achieving a specified threshold, approximately 27 million shares of common stock were issued related to conversions by holders of the convertible
senior notes, which resulted in the retirement of approximately $632 million of convertible senior notes. At December 31, 2006, unsecured debt included approximately $110 million of these convertible senior notes, which were potentially
convertible into approximately 4.7 million shares of common stock and included as outstanding shares in the diluted EPS calculation (see Note 20). On May 15, 2007, pursuant to the terms of the debt agreement, substantially all of the
holders of the Duke Energy convertible senior notes required Duke Energy to repurchase the balance then outstanding at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. In May 2007, Duke Energy repurchased approximately $110
million of the convertible senior notes, which resulted in the redemption of the remainder of the outstanding convertible senior notes.      In connection
with the spin-off of Spectra Energy on January 2, 2007 (see Note 1), Duke Energy distributed approximately 2 million shares of Spectra Energy common stock to the holders of the convertible senior notes pursuant to the antidilution
provisions of the indenture agreement, resulting in a pre-tax charge of approximately $21 million during the three months ended March 31, 2007, which is recorded in Other Income and Expenses, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
      Secured Debt and First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds.  In January 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage
refunding bonds, of which $400 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.25% and matures January 15, 2018 and $500 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and matures January 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund
capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates
at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of approximately $18 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
and is being amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the debt.         
   155   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $300 million carries a
fixed interest rate of 5.10% and matures April 15, 2018 and $600 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.05% and matures April 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate
purposes. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to
issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of approximately $23 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the debt.
     In August 2008, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.35% and
matures August 15, 2038. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes and to redeem first mortgage bonds maturing in September 2008.
     In November 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of mortgage refunding bonds, of which $500 million carries a fixed
interest rate of 7.00% and matures November 15, 2018 and $400 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.75% and matures November 15, 2013. The net proceeds from issuance were used to repay amounts borrowed under the master credit
facility, to repay senior notes due January 1, 2009, to replenish cash used to repay senior notes at their scheduled maturity in October 2008 and for general corporate purposes.       Accounts Receivable Securitization.  Duke Energy securitizes certain accounts receivable through Duke Energy Receivables Finance Company, LLC (DERF), a
bankruptcy remote, special purpose subsidiary. DERF is a wholly-owned limited liability company with a separate legal existence from its parent, and its assets are not intended to be generally available to creditors of Duke Energy. As a result of
the securitization, on a daily basis Duke Energy sells certain accounts receivable, arising from the sale of electricity and/or related services as part of Duke Energy s franchised electric business, to DERF. In order to fund its purchases of
accounts receivable, DERF has a $300 million secured credit facility with a commercial paper conduit administered by Citicorp North America, Inc., which terminates in September 2010. The credit facility and related securitization documentation
contain several covenants, including covenants with respect to the accounts receivable held by DERF, as well as a covenant requiring that the ratio of Duke Energy consolidated indebtedness to Duke Energy consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%.
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the interest rate associated with the credit facility, which is based on commercial paper rates, was 4.7% and 5.3%, respectively and $300 million was outstanding under the credit facility as of both
December 31, 2008 and 2007. The securitization transaction was not structured to meet the criteria for sale treatment under SFAS No. 140 and accordingly is reflected as a secured borrowing in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the $300 million outstanding balance of the credit facility was secured by approximately $518 million and $532 million, respectively, of accounts receivable held by DERF. The obligations of DERF under the credit
facility are non-recourse to Duke Energy.       Other Assets Pledged as Collateral.  As of December 31, 2008, substantially all of U.S.
Franchised Electric and Gas  electric plant in service is mortgaged under the mortgage bond indenture of Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana.       Floating Rate Debt.  Unsecured debt, secured debt and other debt included approximately $3.2 billion and $2.4 billion of floating-rate debt as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which excludes approximately $300 million and $571 million of Brazilian debt at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, that is indexed annually to Brazilian inflation. Floating-rate debt is
primarily based on commercial paper rates or a spread relative to an index such as a London Interbank Offered Rate for debt denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the average interest rate associated with floating-rate
debt was approximately 3.2% and 4.9%, respectively.         
   156   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Maturities, Call Options and Acceleration Clauses.              Annual Maturities as of December 31, 2008          

(a)  
  Excludes short-term notes payable and commercial paper of $543 million.        Duke
Energy has the ability under certain debt facilities to call and repay the obligation prior to its scheduled maturity. Therefore, the actual timing of future cash repayments could be materially different than the above as a result of Duke
Energy s ability to repay these obligations prior to their scheduled maturity.      Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the
credit ratings at Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at Standard   Poor s (S P) or Moody s Investors Service (Moody s). As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had approximately $8 million of senior unsecured
notes which mature serially through 2012 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy s senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB- at S P or Baa3 at Moody s, and $19 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially
through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy s senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S P or Baa2 at Moody s. As of February 1, 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas  senior unsecured credit rating was A- at
S P and A3 at Moody s.             Available Credit Facilities.       In June 2007, Duke Energy closed the syndication of an amended and restated credit facility, which replaced existing credit facilities, with a 5-year, $2.65 billion
master credit facility. Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky all have borrowing capacity under the terms of the master credit facility.      In March 2008, Duke Energy entered into an amendment to its $2.65 billion master credit facility whereby the borrowing capacity was increased by $550 million to
$3.2 billion. In October 2008, Duke Energy terminated the participation of one of the financial institutions supplying approximately $63 million of credit commitment under its master credit facility. The total credit facility capacity under the
master credit facility subsequent to this termination is approximately $3.14 billion. Duke Energy has the unilateral ability under the master credit facility to increase or decrease the borrowing sublimits of each borrower, subject to maximum cap
limitations, at any time. See table below for the borrowing sublimits at December 31, 2008 for each of the Duke Energy entities with borrowing capacity under this credit facility. The amount available under the master credit facility has been
reduced by draw downs of cash and the use of the master credit facility to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, letters of credit and certain pollution control bonds.             Master Credit Facility Summary as of December 31, 2008 (in millions) (d)   

(a)  
  Credit facility expires June 2012. The credit facility contains an option allowing borrowing up to the full amount of the facility on the day of initial expiration for up to one year.

(b)  
  Credit facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65% for each borrower.     

(d)  
  This summary excludes certain demand facilities and committed facilities that are insignificant in size or which generally support very specific requirements, which primarily include
facilities that backstop various outstanding pollution control bonds.           
   157   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             In September 2008, Duke Energy and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and
Duke Energy Kentucky (collectively referred to as the borrowers) borrowed a total of approximately $1 billion under Duke Energy s master credit facility. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas used the proceeds from a debt
issuance to repay in full the approximately $260 million borrowed under the master credit facility. At December 31, 2008, outstanding borrowings of approximately $750 million under Duke Energy s master credit facility as follows:
        
     The loans under the master credit facility are revolving credit loans that currently bear interest at
one-month LIBOR plus an applicable spread ranging from 19 to 24 basis points. The loan for Duke Energy has a stated maturity of June 2012, while the loans for all of the other borrowers have stated maturities of September 2009; however, the
borrowers have the ability under the master credit facility to renew the loans due in September 2009 up through the date the master credit facility matures in June 2012. Except for Duke Energy Ohio, all of the borrowers have the intent and ability
to refinance these obligations on a long-term basis, either through renewal of the terms of the loan through the master credit facility, which has non-cancelable terms in excess of one-year, or through issuance of long-term debt to replace the
amounts drawn under the master credit facility. Accordingly, borrowings of $471 million are reflected as Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008. As Duke Energy Ohio does not have the intent to refinance its
borrowings on a long-term basis, amounts outstanding at December 31, 2008 of $279 million are reflected as current liabilities in Notes Payable and Commercial Paper on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, approximately $779 million and $629 million, respectively, of pollution control bonds were classified as
Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Of this amount, the master credit facility served as a backstop for approximately $440 million of these pollution control bonds (of which approximately $100 million is in the form of letters of
credit), with the remaining balance backstopped by other specific credit facilities separate from the master credit facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 approximately $450 million and $300 million,
respectively, of commercial paper issuances were classified as Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These pollution control bonds and commercial paper issuances, which are short-term obligations by nature, are classified as long-term
due to Duke Energy s intent and ability to utilize such borrowings as long-term financing. As Duke Energy s master credit facility and other specific purpose credit facilities have non-cancelable terms in excess of one year as of the
balance sheet date, Duke Energy has the ability to refinance these short-term obligations on a long-term basis.       In September 2008, Duke Energy
Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $330 million three-year letter of credit agreement with a syndicate of banks, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to
$279 million and $51 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable rate demand bonds issued or to be issued on behalf of either Duke Energy Indiana or Duke Energy Kentucky. This credit facility, which is not part of
Duke Energy s master credit facility, may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.       Restrictive Debt Covenants.  Duke Energy s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure to meet those covenants
beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its significant debt agreements. In addition, some
credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements
contain material adverse change clauses.            
   158   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Other Loans.  During 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy had loans outstanding against the cash surrender value of the life insurance
policies that it owns on the lives of its executives. The amounts outstanding were $384 million as of December 31, 2008 and $367 million as of December 31, 2007. The amounts outstanding were carried as a reduction of the related cash
surrender value that is included in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.             17. Preferred and Preference Stock at Duke Energy       As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were 44 million authorized shares
of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, with no such preferred shares outstanding.       Preferred and Preference Stock of Duke Energy s
Subsidiaries.  In connection with the Westcoast Energy, Inc. (Westcoast) acquisition in 2002, Duke Energy assumed approximately $411 million of authorized and issued redeemable preferred and preference shares at Westcoast and Union Gas. The
approximate $225 million remaining obligation associated with these preferred and preference shares was transferred to Spectra Energy in connection with the spin-off of the natural gas businesses on January 2, 2007.      Additionally, in May 2006, Duke Energy redeemed, at par plus accrued and unpaid dividends, approximately $11 million of authorized and issued Duke Energy Indiana
preferred stock, which had been acquired by Duke Energy in connection with the Cinergy merger in April 2006.             18. Commitments and Contingencies              General Insurance  
     Duke Energy carries insurance and reinsurance coverage either directly or through its captive insurance company, Bison, and its affiliates,
consistent with companies engaged in similar commercial operations with similar type properties. Duke Energy s insurance coverage includes (1) commercial general public liability insurance for liabilities arising to third parties for
bodily injury and property damage resulting from Duke Energy s operations; (2) workers  compensation liability coverage to statutory limits; (3) automobile liability insurance for all owned, non-owned and hired vehicles covering
liabilities to third parties for bodily injury and property damage; (4) insurance policies in support of the indemnification provisions of Duke Energy s by-laws and (5) property insurance covering the replacement value of all real and
personal property damage, excluding electric transmission and distribution lines, including damages arising from boiler and machinery breakdowns, earthquake, flood damage and extra expense. All coverage is subject to certain deductibles or
retentions, terms and conditions common for companies with similar types of operations.      In 2006, Bison was a member of Oil Insurance Limited (OIL)
and sEnergy Insurance Limited (sEnergy), which provided property and business interruption reinsurance coverage respectively for Duke Energy s non-nuclear facilities. Duke Energy accounts for these memberships under the cost method, as it did
not have the ability to exert significant influence over these investments. Bison terminated its membership in OIL effective December 31, 2006 and paid a withdrawal premium during 2007 as a result of this decision. sEnergy ceased insuring
events subsequent to May 15, 2006 and is currently winding down its operations and settling its outstanding claims. Bison will continue to pay additional premiums to sEnergy as it settles its outstanding claims during its wind-down; however,
Duke Energy does not anticipate that the payments associated with the settlement of these outstanding claims will have a material impact on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.      Duke Energy also maintains excess liability insurance coverage above the established primary limits for commercial general liability and automobile liability
insurance. Limits, terms, conditions and deductibles are comparable to those carried by other energy companies of similar size.      The cost of Duke
Energy s general insurance coverage continued to fluctuate over the past year reflecting the changing conditions of the insurance markets.             Nuclear Insurance       Duke Energy owns and operates the McGuire and Oconee
Nuclear Stations and operates and has a partial ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The McGuire and Catawba Nuclear Stations have two nuclear reactors each and Oconee has three. Nuclear insurance includes: liability coverage;
property, decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and business interruption and/or extra expense coverage. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station reimburse Duke Energy for certain expenses  
       
   159   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 associated with nuclear insurance premiums. The Price-Anderson Act requires Duke Energy to provide for public liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the
maximum total financial projection liability. The Price-Anderson Act provides for an inflation adjustment at least every five years. Effective October 2008, this adjustment increased the maximum total financial projection liability from
approximately $10.8 billion to approximately $12.5 billion.       Primary Liability Insurance . Duke Energy has purchased the maximum reasonably
available private primary liability insurance as required by law, which is $300 million.       Excess Liability Program.  As discussed above,
effective October 2008, this program provides approximately $12.5 billion of coverage through the Price-Anderson Act s mandatory industry-wide excess secondary financial protection program of risk pooling. The $12.5 billion is the sum of the
current potential cumulative retrospective premium assessments of $117.5 million per licensed commercial nuclear reactor. This would be increased by $117.5 million for each additional commercial nuclear reactor licensed, or reduced by $117.5 million
for nuclear reactors no longer operational and may be exempted from the risk pooling program. Under this program, licensees could be assessed retrospective premiums to compensate for public liability damages in the event of a nuclear incident at any
licensed facility in the U.S. If such an incident should occur and public liability damages exceed primary liability insurance, licensees may be assessed up to $117.5 million for each of their licensed reactors, payable at a rate not to exceed $17.5
million a year per licensed reactor for each incident. The assessment and rate are subject to indexing for inflation and may be subject to state premium taxes.      Duke Energy is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), which provides property and accidental outage insurance coverage for Duke Energy s nuclear facilities under three policy programs:       Primary Property Insurance.  This policy provides $500 million of primary property damage coverage for each of Duke Energy s nuclear facilities.
      Excess Property Insurance.  This policy provides excess property, decontamination and decommissioning liability insurance: $2.25 billion for
the Catawba Nuclear Station and $1.0 billion each for the Oconee and McGuire Nuclear Stations. The Oconee and McGuire Nuclear Stations also share an additional $1.0 billion insurance limit above this excess. This shared limit is not subject to
reinstatement in the event of a loss.       Accidental Outage Insurance.  This policy provides business interruption and/or extra expense coverage
resulting from an accidental outage of a nuclear unit. Each McGuire and Catawba unit is insured for up to $3.5 million per week, and the Oconee units are insured for up to $2.8 million per week. Coverage amounts decline if more than one unit is
involved in an accidental outage. Initial coverage begins after a 12-week deductible period for Catawba and a 26-week deductible period for McGuire and Oconee and continues at 100% for 52 weeks and 80% for the next 110 weeks. The McGuire and Catawba
policy limit is $490 million and the Oconee policy limit is $392 million.      In the event of large industry losses, NEIL s Board of Directors may
assess Duke Energy for amounts up to ten times its annual premiums. The current potential maximum assessments are: Primary Property Insurance $38 million, Excess Property Insurance $43 million and Accidental Outage Insurance $22
million.      Pursuant to regulations of the NRC, each company s property damage insurance policies provide that all proceeds from such insurance be
applied, first, to place the plant in a safe and stable condition after an accident, and second, to decontaminate before any proceeds can be used for decommissioning, plant repair or restoration.      In the event of a loss, the amount of insurance available might not be adequate to cover property damage and other expenses incurred. Uninsured losses and other
expenses, to the extent not recovered by other sources, could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.      The maximum assessment amounts include 100% of Duke Energy s potential obligation to NEIL for the Catawba Nuclear Station. However, the other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station are obligated to assume their pro
rata share of liability for retrospective premiums and other premium assessments resulting from the Price-Anderson Act s excess secondary financial protection program of risk pooling, or the NEIL policies.             Environmental       Duke Energy is subject to international, federal, state and local regulations regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. These regulations can be changed from time to
time, imposing new obligations on Duke Energy.         
   160   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)               Remediation Activities   .  Duke Energy and its affiliates are responsible for environmental remediation at various
contaminated sites. These include some properties that are part of ongoing Duke Energy operations, sites formerly owned or used by Duke Energy entities, and sites owned by third parties. Remediation typically involves management of contaminated
soils and may involve groundwater remediation. Managed in conjunction with relevant federal, state and local agencies, activities vary with site conditions and locations, remedial requirements, complexity and sharing of responsibility. If
remediation activities involve statutory joint and several liability provisions, strict liability, or cost recovery or contribution actions, Duke Energy or its affiliates could potentially be held responsible for contamination caused by other
parties. In some instances, Duke Energy may share liability associated with contamination with other potentially responsible parties, and may also benefit from insurance policies or contractual indemnities that cover some or all cleanup costs. All
of these sites generally are managed in the normal course of business or affiliate operations. Management, in the normal course of business, continually assesses the nature and extent of known or potential environmental-related contingencies and
records liabilities when losses become probable and are reasonably estimable.        Clean Water Act 316(b)   .  The EPA finalized its
cooling water intake structures rule in July 2004. The rule established aquatic protection requirements for existing facilities that withdraw 50 million gallons or more of water per day from rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs, estuaries,
oceans, or other U.S. waters for cooling purposes. Fourteen of the 23 coal and nuclear-fueled generating facilities in which Duke Energy is either a whole or partial owner are affected sources under that rule. On January 25, 2007, the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its opinion in  Riverkeeper, Inc. v. EPA , Nos. 04-6692-ag(L) et. al. (2d Cir. 2007) remanding most aspects of the EPA s rule back to the agency. The court effectively disallowed those
portions of the rule most favorable to industry, and the decision creates a great deal of uncertainty regarding future requirements and their timing. On April 14, 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court issued an order granting review of the case and
briefs were filed on July 14, 2008. Oral argument occurred on December 2, 2008. A decision is expected in 2009. If the Supreme Court upholds the lower court decision, it is expected that costs will increase as a result of the court s
decision, however, Duke Energy is unable to estimate at this time its costs to comply.        Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR)   .  The EPA finalized its CAIR in May 2005. The CAIR limits total annual and summertime NO x  emissions and annual SO 2  emissions from electric generating facilities
across the Eastern U.S. through a two-phased cap-and-trade program. Phase 1 begins in 2009 for NO x  and in 2010 for SO 2 . Phase 2 begins in 2015 for both NO x  and SO 2 . On March 25, 2008, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia (D.C. Circuit) heard oral argument in a case involving multiple challenges to the CAIR. On July 11, 2008, the D.C. Circuit issued its decision in  North Carolina v. EPA  No. 05-1244 vacating the
CAIR. The EPA filed a petition for rehearing on September 24, 2008 with the D.C. Circuit asking the court to reconsider various parts of its ruling vacating the CAIR. In December 2008, the D.C. Circuit issued a decision remanding the CAIR to
the EPA without vacatur. The EPA must now conduct a new rulemaking to modify the CAIR in accordance with the court s July 11, 2008 opinion. This decision means that the CAIR as initially finalized in 2005 remains in effect until the new
EPA rule takes effect. The court did not impose a deadline or schedule on the EPA. It is uncertain how long the current CAIR will remain in effect or how the new rulemaking will alter the CAIR.       The emission controls Duke Energy is installing to comply with state specific clean air legislation will contribute significantly to achieving compliance with the
CAIR requirements (see Note 4). Additionally, Duke Energy plans to spend approximately $120 million between 2009 and 2013 (approximately $85 million in Ohio and $35 million in Indiana) to comply with Phase 1 of the CAIR. Duke Energy is
currently unable to estimate the costs to comply with any new rule the EPA will issue in the future as a result of the D.C. District Court s December 2008 decision discussed above. The IURC issued an order in 2006 granting Duke Energy Indiana
approximately $1.07 billion in rate recovery to cover its estimated Phase 1 compliance costs of the CAIR and the Clean Air Mercury Rule (see below) in Indiana. Duke Energy Ohio received partial recovery of depreciation and financing costs related to
environmental compliance projects for 2005-2008 through its RSP.       See Note 13 for a discussion of the impacts of the D.C. Circuit Court s
July 11, 2008 decision to vacate the CAIR on the carrying value of emission allowances.        Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR)  . The EPA
finalized its CAMR in May 2005. The CAMR was to have limited total annual mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants across the U.S. through a two-phased cap-and-trade program beginning in 2010. On February 8, 2008, the D.C. Circuit issued
its opinion in  New Jersey v. EPA , No. 05-1097 vacating the CAMR. Requests for rehearing were denied. The U.S. EPA and the Utility Air Regulatory Group have requested that the U.S. Supreme Court review the D.C. Circuit s decision.
The D.C. Circuit s decision creates uncertainty regarding future mercury emission reduction requirements and their timing, but makes it fairly certain that there will be a delay in the implementation of federal mercury requirements for existing
coal-fired power plants. On January 29, 2009, the EPA requested the U.S. Department of Justice withdraw its Petition for Writ of Certiorari filed on October 17, 2008. On Febru- 
       
   161   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             
 ary 23, 2009, the Supreme Court denied the Utility Air Regulatory Group s petition. The EPA will not develop emission standards for utility units under
section 112 of the Clean Air Act, thus abiding by the D.C. Circuit s decision. At this point, Duke Energy is unable to estimate the costs to comply with any future mercury regulations that might result from the D.C. Circuit s decision.
        Coal Combustion Product (CCP) Management   .  Duke Energy currently estimates that it will spend approximately
$365 million over the period 2009-2013 to install synthetic caps and liners at existing and new CCP landfills and to convert CCP handling systems from wet to dry systems.        Extended Environmental Activities and Accruals   .  Included in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other Current Liabilities
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were total accruals related to extended environmental-related activities of approximately $55 million and $52 million as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. These accruals represent
Duke Energy s provisions for costs associated with remediation activities at some of its current and former sites, as well as other relevant environmental contingent liabilities. Management, in the normal course of business, continually
assesses the nature and extent of known or potential environmental-related contingencies and records liabilities when losses become probable and are reasonably estimable.       
      Litigation         New Source Review (NSR)   .  In 1999-2000, the U.S. DOJ, acting on behalf of the EPA and joined by various citizen groups and states, filed a number of complaints and notices of violation against multiple utilities across
the country for alleged violations of the NSR provisions of the Clean Air Act (CAA). Generally, the government alleges that projects performed at various coal-fired units were major modifications, as defined in the CAA, and that the utilities
violated the CAA when they undertook those projects without obtaining permits and installing the best available emission controls for SO 2 , NO x  and particulate matter. The complaints seek injunctive relief to require
installation of pollution control technology on various generating units that allegedly violated the CAA, and unspecified civil penalties in amounts of up to $32,500 per day for each violation. A number of Duke Energy s plants have been subject
to these allegations. Duke Energy asserts that there were no CAA violations because the applicable regulations do not require permitting in cases where the projects undertaken are  routine  or otherwise do not result in a net increase in
emissions.      In 2000, the government brought a lawsuit against Duke Energy in the U.S. District Court in Greensboro, North Carolina. The EPA claims
that 29 projects performed at 25 of Duke Energy s coal-fired units in the Carolinas violate these NSR provisions. Three environmental groups have intervened in the case. In August 2003, the trial court issued a summary judgment opinion adopting
Duke Energy s legal positions on the standard to be used for measuring an increase in emissions, and granted judgment in favor of Duke Energy. The trial court s decision was appealed and ultimately reversed and remanded for trial by the
U.S. Supreme Court. At trial, Duke Energy will continue to assert that the projects were routine or not projected to increase emissions. No trial date has been set.      In November 1999, the U.S. brought a lawsuit in the U.S. Federal District Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Cinergy, Duke Energy Ohio, and Duke Energy Indiana alleging various violations of the CAA for various
projects at six Duke Energy owned and co-owned generating stations in the Midwest. Three northeast states and two environmental groups have intervened in the case. A jury trial commenced on May 5, 2008 and jury verdict was returned on
May 22, 2008. The jury found in favor of Cinergy, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana on all but three units at Wabash River. Also, the judge previously granted summary judgment against Duke Energy with respect to plaintiffs  claim
that Duke Energy violated an Administrative Consent Order entered into in 1998 between the EPA and Cinergy relating to alleged violations of Ohio s State Implementation Plan (SIP) provisions governing particulate matter at Duke Energy
Ohio s W.C. Beckjord Station.      On October 21, 2008, Plaintiffs filed a motion for a new liability trial claiming that defendants misled the
plaintiffs and the jury by, among other things, not disclosing a consulting agreement with a fact witness and by referring to that witness as  retired  during the liability trial when in fact he was working for Duke Energy under the
referenced consulting agreement in connection with the trial. On December 18, 2008, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for a new liability trial on claims for which Duke Energy was not previously found liable. In a subsequent order
rendered on January 12, 2009, the Court also ordered Duke Energy to pay plaintiffs  costs incurred in preparing and filing the motion for a new trial. A new liability trial is scheduled to begin on May 11, 2009. The remedy trial for
violations already established at the Wabash River Station and W.C. Beckjord Station began on February 2, 2009. Based on previous rulings by the judge in this case, the Wabash River units are not subject to civil penalties; and therefore, the
remedy trial in February addressed only the appropriate injunctive relief. Plaintiffs are seeking numerous types of injunctive relief including installation of monitoring equipment, ceasing operations and remediation of alleged excess emissions from
the Wabash River units.         
   162   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Cinergy and Duke Energy Ohio have been informed by Dayton Power and Light (DP L) that in June 2000, the EPA issued a Notice of
Violation (NOV) to DP L for alleged violations of CAA requirements at a station operated by DP L and jointly-owned by DP L, Columbus Southern Power Company (CSP), and Duke Energy Ohio. The NOV indicated the EPA may issue an order
requiring compliance with the requirements of the Ohio SIP, or bring a civil action seeking injunctive relief and civil penalties of up to $27,500 per day for each violation. In September 2004, Marilyn Wall and the Sierra Club brought a lawsuit
against Duke Energy Ohio, DP L and CSP for alleged violations of the CAA at this same generating station. The parties reached an agreement to settle this matter in the form of a consent decree which was submitted for comment to the EPA and
ultimately approved and entered by the court on October 23, 2008. The consent decree will not have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.      On April 3, 2008, the Sierra Club filed another lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Duke Energy Indiana and certain
affiliated companies claiming NSR violations at the Edwardsport generating station in Knox County, Indiana. Sierra Club claims that Duke Energy violated the CAA when it undertook various unnamed maintenance projects at Edwardsport without obtaining
permits and installing the best available emission controls. Sierra Club further states that it intends to file suit for additional alleged violations of the CAA and the Indiana State Implementation Plan. On June 30, 2008, defendants filed a
motion to dismiss, or alternatively to stay, this litigation on jurisdictional grounds. The District Court denied that motion and the case will proceed to discovery.      It is not possible to estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in connection with these matters. Ultimate resolution of these matters relating to NSR, even in settlement, could have a material adverse effect
on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, Duke Energy will pursue appropriate regulatory treatment for any costs incurred in connection with such resolution.        Cliffside Unit 6 Permit   .  On July 16, 2008, the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, Environmental Defense Fund, National Parks Conservation
Association, Natural Resources Defenses Council, and Sierra Club (collectively referred to as Citizen Groups) filed suit in federal court alleging that Duke Energy Carolinas violated the CAA when it commenced construction of Cliffside Unit 6 at
Cliffside Steam Station in Rutherford County, North Carolina without obtaining a determination that the MACT emission limits will be met for all prospective hazardous air emissions at that plant. The Citizen Groups claim the right to injunctive
relief against further construction at the plant as well as civil penalties in the amount of up to $32,500 per day for each alleged violation. In June 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas announced that it would voluntarily perform a MACT assessment of air
emission controls planned for Cliffside Unit 6. In July 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas submitted the results of the assessment to the DENR. On August 8, 2008 the plaintiffs filed a motion for summary judgment and on August 11, 2008 Duke
Energy Carolinas filed a motion to dismiss. Both motions were argued on October 16, 2008. On December 2, 2008, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of the Plaintiffs and entered judgment ordering Duke Energy Carolinas to initiate a
MACT process before the DAQ. The court did not order an injunction against further construction, but retained jurisdiction to monitor the MACT proceedings. On December 4, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas submitted its MACT filing and supporting
information to the DAQ specifically seeking DAQ s concurrence as a threshold matter that construction of Cliffside Unit 6 is not a major source subject to section 112 of the Clean Air Act and submitting a MACT determination application. DAQ
held public hearings on January 15, 2009 in Forest City, North Carolina and January 22, 2009 in Statesville, North Carolina to allow public comment on DAQ s proposal to find Cliffside Unit 6 is a minor source of hazardous air
pollutants. The meeting notices were accompanied with a draft permit that includes the minor source limits and monitoring requirements that make the limits enforceable. A final permit with minor source limits is expected in the first quarter of
2009. Concurrent with the initiation of the MACT process, Duke Energy Carolinas filed a notice of appeal to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals of the Court s December 2, 2008 Order to reverse the court s determination that Duke
Energy Carolinas violated the CAA. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether Duke Energy Carolinas will incur any liability or to estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy Carolinas might incur in connection with this matter. To the
extent that a court of proper jurisdiction halts construction of the plant, Duke Energy Carolinas will seek to meet customers  need for power through other resources. In addition, Duke Energy Carolinas will seek appropriate regulatory treatment
for the investment in the plant.        Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) Litigation   .
 In July 2004, the states of Connecticut, New York, California, Iowa, New Jersey, Rhode Island, Vermont, Wisconsin and the City of New York brought a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Cinergy,
American Electric Power Company, Inc., American Electric Power Service Corporation, The Southern Company, Tennessee Valley Authority, and Xcel Energy Inc. A similar lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
against the same companies by Open Space Institute, Inc., Open Space Conservancy, Inc., and The Audubon Society of New Hampshire. These lawsuits allege that the defendants  emissions of CO 2  from the combustion of fossil fuels at
electric generating facilities contribute to global warming and amount to a public nuisance. The complaints also allege that the defendants could generate the same amount of electricity while  
       
   163   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 emitting significantly less CO 2 . The plaintiffs are seeking an injunction requiring each defendant to cap its CO 2  emissions and then reduce them
by a specified percentage each year for at least a decade. In September 2005, the District Court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss the lawsuit. The plaintiffs have appealed this ruling to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. Oral
arguments were held before the Second Circuit Court of Appeals on June 7, 2006. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether Duke Energy will incur any liability or to estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in
connection with this matter.        Alaskan Global Warming Lawsuit  . On
February 26, 2008, plaintiffs filed suit against Peabody Coal and various oil and power company defendants, including Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries. Plaintiffs, the governing bodies of an Inupiat village in Alaska brought the
action on their own behalf and on behalf of the village s approximately 400 residents. The lawsuit alleges that defendants  emissions of CO 2  contributed to global warming and constitute a private and public nuisance. Plaintiffs
also allege that certain defendants, including Duke Energy, conspired to mislead the public with respect to global warming. Plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages, attorney s fees and expenses. On June 30, 2008, the defendants filed
a motion to dismiss on jurisdictional grounds, together with a motion to dismiss the conspiracy claims. Oral argument on the motion is scheduled for May 2009. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether Duke Energy will incur any liability
or to estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in connection with this matter.        Hurricane Katrina Lawsuit   .  In
April 2006, Duke Energy and Cinergy were named in the third amended complaint of a purported class action lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. Plaintiffs claim that Duke Energy and Cinergy, along with
numerous other utilities, oil companies, coal companies and chemical companies, are liable for damages relating to losses suffered by victims of Hurricane Katrina. Plaintiffs claim that defendants  greenhouse gas emissions contributed to the
frequency and intensity of storms such as Hurricane Katrina. On August 30, 2007, the court dismissed the case. The plaintiffs have filed their appeal to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals and oral argument was heard on August 6, 2008. Due
to the late recusal of one of the judges on the Fifth Circuit panel, the court held a new oral argument on November 3, 2008. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether Duke Energy will incur any liability or to estimate the damages,
if any, that Duke Energy might incur in connection with this matter.        San Diego Price Indexing Cases   .  Duke Energy and several of
its affiliates, as well as other energy companies, have been parties to 13 lawsuits which have been coordinated as the  Price Indexing Cases  in San Diego, California. The plaintiffs allege that the defendants conspired to manipulate the
price of natural gas in violation of state and/or federal antitrust laws, unfair business practices and other laws. Plaintiffs in some of the cases further allege that such activities, including engaging in  round trip  trades, providing
false information to natural gas trade publications and unlawfully exchanging information, resulted in artificially high energy prices. In December 2007, Duke Energy reached a settlement in principle to settle the 13 cases. A settlement agreement
was executed in February 2008 and amended and restated in July 2008. The settlement did not have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.         Other Price Reporting Cases  . A total of 12 lawsuits have been filed against Duke Energy affiliates and other energy companies. Ten of these cases have
been consolidated into a single proceeding. In February 2008, the judge in this proceeding granted a motion to dismiss one of the cases and entered judgment in favor of DETM. Plaintiffs  motion to reconsider was, in large part, denied and on
January 9, 2009, the court ruled that Plaintiffs lacked standing to pursue their remaining claims and granted certain Defendants  motion for summary judgment. In February 2009, the same judge dismissed Duke Energy Carolinas from four of
the cases. One case was filed in Tennessee state court, which dismissed the case on filed rate and preemption grounds. That case was appealed to the Tennessee Court of Appeals, where oral argument was heard in November 2007. The Tennessee Court of
Appeals reversed this lower court ruling in October 2008 and on December 23, 2008, Defendants filed an application for permission to appeal together with a brief to the Tennessee Supreme Court. On January 13, 2009, another case pending in
Missouri state court, was dismissed on the grounds that the Plaintiff lacked standing to bring the case. Each of these cases contains similar claims, that the respective plaintiffs, and the classes they claim to represent, were harmed by the
defendants  alleged manipulation of the natural gas markets by various means, including providing false information to natural gas trade publications and entering into unlawful arrangements and agreements in violation of the antitrust laws of
the respective states. Plaintiffs seek damages in unspecified amounts. In October 2008, a settlement in principle was reached with the class plaintiffs in five of the cases. The settlement is subject to execution of definitive settlement documents
and approval by the court. The settlement, as currently structured, will not have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. It is not possible to predict with certainty
whether Duke Energy will incur any liability or to estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in connection with the remaining matters.          
   164   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)               Western Electricity Litigation  . Plaintiffs, on behalf of themselves and others, in three lawsuits allege that Duke
Energy affiliates, among other energy companies, artificially inflated the price of electricity in certain western states. Two of the cases were dismissed and plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit. Of those two cases,
one was dismissed by agreement in March 2007. In November 2007, the court issued an opinion affirming dismissal of the other case, plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration was denied and plaintiffs did not file a petition for certiorari to the
Supreme Court. Plaintiffs in the remaining case seek damages in unspecified amounts. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether Duke Energy will incur any liability or to estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in
connection with these lawsuits, but Duke Energy does not presently believe the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.        Trading Related Investigations   .  Beginning in February 2004, Duke Energy has received requests for information from the U.S. Attorney s
office in Houston focused on the natural gas price reporting activities of certain individuals involved in DETM trading operations. Duke Energy has cooperated with the government in this investigation and is unable to express an opinion regarding
the probable outcome or estimate damages, if any, related to this matter at this time.         ExxonMobil Disputes   .  In March 2007,
Duke Energy and Mobil Natural Gas, Inc. (MNGI) and 3946231 Canada, Inc. (together with MNGI and ExxonMobil) executed a settlement agreement for global settlement of both parties  claims raised in arbitration proceedings relating to DETM
and Duke Energy Marketing Limited Partnership (DEMLP). In the arbitration brought in Canada by DEMLP, the arbitrators held that ExxonMobil was not required to take assignment of certain gas supply and transportation agreements with other parties,
under which DEMLP continues to remain obligated. These contracts are currently estimated to result in losses of up to approximately $10 million through 2009; based on the currently estimated in-service dates for certain gas infrastructure
facilities. As Duke Energy has an ownership interest of approximately 60% in DEMLP, only 60% of any losses would impact pre-tax earnings for Duke Energy. However, these losses are subject to change in the future in the event of changes in market
conditions and underlying assumptions.         Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan  . A class action lawsuit was filed in federal
court in South Carolina against Duke Energy and the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan, alleging violations of Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA). These allegations arise
out of the conversion of the Duke Energy Company Employees  Retirement Plan into the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan. The case also raises some Plan administration issues, alleging errors in the application of Plan provisions
(i. e. , the calculation of interest rate credits in 1997 and 1998 and the calculation of lump-sum distributions). The plaintiffs seek to represent present and former participants in the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan. This group
is estimated to include approximately 36,000 persons. The plaintiffs also seek to divide the putative class into sub-classes based on age. Six causes of action are alleged, ranging from age discrimination, to various alleged ERISA violations, to
allegations of breach of fiduciary duty. The plaintiffs seek a broad array of remedies, including a retroactive reformation of the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan and a recalculation of participants / beneficiaries  benefits
under the revised and reformed plan. Duke Energy filed its answer in March 2006. A portion of this contingent liability was assigned to Spectra Energy in connection with the spin-off in January 2007. A hearing on the plaintiffs  motion to
amend the complaint to add an additional age discrimination claim, defendant s motion to dismiss and the respective motions for summary judgment was held in December 2007. On June 2, 2008, the court issued its ruling denying
plaintiffs  motion to add the additional claim and dismissing a number of plaintiffs  claims, including the claims for ERISA age discrimination. Since that date, plaintiffs have notified Duke Energy that they are withdrawing their ADEA
claim. No trial date has been set. At mediation, plaintiffs quantified their claims as being in excess of $150 million. It is not possible to predict with certainty the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in connection with this matter.
       Ohio Antitrust Lawsuit   .  In January 2008, four plaintiffs, including individual, industrial and non-profit customers, filed a
lawsuit against Duke Energy in federal court in the Southern District of Ohio. Plaintiffs allege that Duke Energy (then Cinergy and The Cincinnati Gas   Electric Company (CG E)), conspired to provide inequitable and unfair price
advantages for certain large business consumers by entering into non-public option agreements with such consumers in exchange for their withdrawal of challenges to Duke Energy Ohio s (then CG E s) pending RSP, which was implemented in
early 2005. Duke Energy denies the allegations made in the lawsuit. Following Duke Energy s filing of a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  claims, plaintiffs amended their complaint on May 30, 2008. Plaintiffs now contend that the
contracts at issue were an illegal rebate which violate antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) statutes. Defendants have again moved to dismiss the claims. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether Duke Energy
will incur any liability or to estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in connection with this matter.        Duke Energy
International Paranapanema Lawsuit   .  In June 2007, the Brazilian electricity regulatory agency (ANEEL) issued resolution 497/2007 (the Resolution) which purports to impose additional assessments (retroactive to July 1, 2004) on
generation  
       
   165   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             
 companies located in the State of S o Paulo for utilization of the electric transmission system. The new assessments are based upon a flat-fee charge that fails
to take into account the proportional usage by each generator. Pursuant to the Resolution, Duke Energy International Geracao Paranapanema S.A. (Paranapanema) was assessed approximately $32 million, inclusive of interest. Following various failed
administrative challenges, on July 16, 2008, Paranapanema filed a lawsuit in the Brazilian federal court challenging the merits of the assessment. On July 29, 2008 the court granted Paranapanema s request to enjoin its payment
obligation while the legal challenge on the merits remains pending before the Brazilian court. That injunction was appealed and reversed on January 28, 2009. On February 3, 2009, Paranapanema filed a motion for reconsideration of the appellate
court s ruling against the injunction. Paranapanema also filed a brief on the merits. A final decision on both the injunction ruling and the merits is pending before the appellate court.         Asbestos-related Injuries and Damages Claims   .  Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement
relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.
     Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves related to Duke Energy Carolinas in the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled approximately $1,031
million and $1,082 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are classified in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other within Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke
Energy s best estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2027. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2027. In light of the
uncertainties inherent in a longer-term forecast, management does not believe that they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2027 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates
incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward
trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative
solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside our control,
management believes that it is possible Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves.      Duke Energy has a
third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas  asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas  cumulative payments began to
exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential
future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,099 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of approximately $1,032 million and $1,040 million related to this policy are classified
in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims.
Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.      Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio have also been named as defendants or co-defendants in lawsuits related to asbestos at their electric generating stations. The impact on Duke Energy s consolidated results of operations, cash
flows or financial position of these cases to date has not been material. Based on estimates under varying assumptions concerning uncertainties, such as, among others: (i) the number of contractors potentially exposed to asbestos during
construction or maintenance of Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio generating plants; (ii) the possible incidence of various illnesses among exposed workers, and (iii) the potential settlement costs without federal or other
legislation that addresses asbestos tort actions, Duke Energy estimates that the range of reasonably possible exposure in existing and future suits over the foreseeable future is not material. This estimated range of exposure may change as
additional settlements occur and claims are made and more case law is established.        EI UK Holdings, Inc   .  In March, 2004, EI UK
Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corp, filed a complaint in Ohio State Court. The complaint alleged that Cinergy, and an affiliate, had breached certain agreements and sought indemnification from Cinergy. The case went to trial and on
February 14, 2008, the jury returned a verdict in favor of EI UK Holdings and against Cinergy and its affiliate and awarded EI UK Holdings $15 million, plus interest. Post judgment motions were denied and Cinergy paid the verdict and
prejudgment interest in June 2008.         
   166   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)               Other Litigation and Legal Proceedings   .  Duke Energy and its subsidiaries are involved in other legal, tax and
regulatory proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which involve substantial amounts. Duke Energy believes that the final disposition of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.       Duke Energy has exposure to certain legal matters that are described herein. As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy has recorded reserves, including reserves related to the aforementioned asbestos-related injuries and damages claims, of approximately $1.1 billion for these proceedings and exposures. Duke Energy has
insurance coverage for certain of these losses incurred. These reserves represent management s best estimate of probable loss as defined by SFAS No. 5. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Duke Energy recognized approximately $1,032
million and $1,040 million, respectively, of probable insurance recoveries related to these losses.       Duke Energy expenses legal costs related to
the defense of loss contingencies as incurred.             Other Commitments and Contingencies
              Synfuel.   Commercial Power produced synfuel from
facilities that qualified for tax credits (through 2007) in accordance with Section 29/45K of the Internal Revenue Code if certain requirements were satisfied. Section 29/45K provided for a phase-out of the credit if the average price of
crude oil during a calendar year exceeded a specified threshold. The phase-out was based on a prescribed calculation and definition of crude oil prices. The exposure to synfuel tax credit phase-out was monitored as Duke Energy was able to
reduce or cease synfuel production based on the expectation of any potential tax credit phase-out. The objective of these activities was to reduce potential losses incurred if the reference price in a year exceeded a level triggering a phase-out of
synfuel tax credits.       These credits reduced Duke Energy s income tax liability and, therefore, Duke Energy s tax expense recorded in
Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax. Commercial Power s sale of synfuel had generated $339 million in tax credits through December 31, 2005. After reducing for the possibility of phase-out, the amount of
additional credits generated during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $84 million and $20 million, respectively. Duke Energy ceased production of synfuel upon the expiration of the tax credits at the end of 2007.
      The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed the audit of Cinergy for the 2002, 2003, and 2004 tax years, including the synfuel facility
owned during that period, which represents $222 million of tax credits generated during the aforementioned audit period. The IRS has not proposed any adjustment that would disallow the credits claimed during that period. Subsequent periods are
still subject to audit. Duke Energy believes that it operated in conformity with all the necessary requirements to be allowed such credits under Section 29/45K.        DEGS of Narrows, L.L.C. Investigation.   In October 2006, Duke Energy began an internal
investigation into improper data reporting to the EPA regarding air emissions under the NO x  Budget Program at Duke Energy s DEGS of Narrows, L.L.C. power plant facility in Narrows, Virginia. The investigation has revealed evidence of
falsification of data by an employee relating to the quality assurance testing of its continuous emissions monitoring system to monitor heat input and NO x  emissions. In December 2006, Duke Energy voluntarily disclosed the potential
violations to the EPA and Virginia Department of Environmental Quality (VDEQ), and in January 2007, Duke Energy made a full written disclosure of the investigation s findings to the EPA and the VDEQ. In December 2007, the EPA issued a notice of
violation. Duke Energy has taken appropriate disciplinary action, including termination, with respect to the employees involved with the false reporting. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether Duke Energy will incur any liability or to
estimate the damages, if any, that Duke Energy might incur in connection with this matter.        Other Matters.   Duke Energy was party to an
agreement with a third party service provider related to certain future purchases. The agreement contained certain damage payment provisions if qualifying purchases were not initiated by September 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Duke Energy
initiated early settlement discussions regarding this agreement and recorded a reserve of approximately $65 million. During the third quarter of 2007, Duke Energy paid the third party service provider approximately $20 million, which directly
reduced Duke Energy s future exposure under the agreement, and further reduced the reserve by $20 million based upon qualifying purchase commitments that, once satisfied, will fulfill Duke Energy s obligations under the agreement. As
a result of additional adjustments to this reserve during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was no remaining reserve associated with this agreement at December 31, 2007.        General  . As part of its normal business, Duke Energy is a party to various financial guarantees, performance guarantees and other contractual
commitments to extend guarantees of credit and other assistance to various subsidiaries, investees and other third parties. To varying degrees, these guarantees involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon future operations of various subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events. For
further information see Note 19.         
   167   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             In addition, Duke Energy enters into various fixed-price, non-cancelable commitments to purchase or sell power (tolling arrangements
or power purchase contracts), take-or-pay arrangements, transportation or throughput agreements and other contracts that may or may not be recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Some of these arrangements may be recognized at market value on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets as trading contracts or qualifying hedge positions.             Operating and Capital Lease Commitments       Duke Energy leases assets in several areas of its operations. Consolidated rental expense for
operating leases included in income from continuing operations was $164 million in 2008, $138 million in 2007 and $110 million in 2006 which is included in Operation, Maintenance and Other on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income (Loss)
From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, in 2006 included rental expense for operating leases of approximately $36 million. Amortization of assets recorded under capital leases is included in Depreciation and Amortization on the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. The following is a summary of future minimum lease payments under operating leases, which at inception had a non-cancelable term of more than one year, and capital leases as of December 31, 2008:         
           19. Guarantees and Indemnifications
      Duke Energy and its subsidiaries have various financial and performance guarantees and indemnifications which are issued in the normal course of
business. As discussed below, these contracts include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications. Duke Energy and its subsidiaries enter into these arrangements to facilitate a commercial
transaction with a third party by enhancing the value of the transaction to the third party.      As discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Duke
Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses to shareholders. Guarantees that were originally issued by Duke Energy, Cinergy or International Energy or were assigned to Duke Energy prior to the spin-off remained with Duke Energy
subsequent to the spin-off. Guarantees originally issued by Spectra Energy Capital or its affiliates prior to the spin-off remained with Spectra Energy Capital subsequent to the spin-off, except for certain guarantees discussed below that are in the
process of being assigned to Duke Energy. During this assignment period, Duke Energy has indemnified Spectra Energy Capital against any losses incurred under these guarantee obligations.      Duke Energy has issued performance guarantees to customers and other third parties that guarantee the payment and performance of other parties, including certain
non-wholly-owned entities, as well as guarantees of debt of certain non-consolidated entities and less than wholly-owned consolidated entities. If such entities were to default on payments or performance, Duke Energy would be required under the
guarantees to make payment on the obligation of the less than wholly-owned entity. The maximum potential amount of future payments Duke Energy could have been required to make under these guarantees as of December 31, 2008 was approximately
$510 million. Of this amount, approximately $200 million relates to guarantees issued on behalf of less than wholly-owned consolidated entities, with the remainder related to guarantees issued on behalf of third parties and unconsolidated affiliates
of Duke Energy. Approximately $314 million of the guarantees expire between 2009 and 2039, with the remaining performance guarantees having no contractual expiration. In addition, as discussed above, Spectra Energy Capital is in the process of
assigning to Duke Energy performance guarantees with maximum potential amounts of future payments of approximately $320 million. During the assignment period, Duke Energy has indemnified Spectra Energy Capital for any losses incurred as a result of
these guarantees.         
   168   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Included in the amounts discussed above is approximately $63 million of maximum potential amounts of future payments associated with
guarantees issued to customers or other third parties related to the payment or performance obligations of certain entities that were previously wholly owned by Duke Energy but which have been sold to third parties, such as DukeSolutions, Inc.
(DukeSolutions) and Duke Engineering   Services, Inc. (DE S). These guarantees are primarily related to payment of lease obligations, debt obligations, and performance guarantees related to provision of goods and services. Duke Energy
has received back-to-back indemnification from the buyer of DE S indemnifying Duke Energy for any amounts paid related to the DE S guarantees. Duke Energy also received indemnification from the buyer of DukeSolutions for the first $2.5
million paid by Duke Energy related to the DukeSolutions guarantees. Further, Duke Energy granted indemnification to the buyer of DukeSolutions with respect to losses arising under some energy services agreements retained by DukeSolutions after the
sale, provided that the buyer agreed to bear 100% of the performance risk and 50% of any other risk up to an aggregate maximum of $2.5 million (less any amounts paid by the buyer under the indemnity discussed above). Additionally, for certain
performance guarantees, Duke Energy has recourse to subcontractors involved in providing services to a customer. These guarantees have various terms ranging from 2009 to 2019, with others having no specific term. The maximum potential amount of
future payments under these guarantees as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $63 million.       Duke Energy has guaranteed certain issuers of
surety bonds, obligating itself to make payment upon the failure of a non-wholly-owned entity to honor its obligations to a third party, as well as used bank-issued stand-by letters of credit to secure the performance of non-wholly-owned entities to
a third party or customer. Under these arrangements, Duke Energy has payment obligations to the issuing bank which are triggered by a draw by the third party or customer due to the failure of the non-wholly-owned entity to perform according to the
terms of its underlying contract. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has guaranteed approximately $100 million of outstanding surety bonds and letters of credit related to obligations of non-wholly-owned entities, substantially all of which
relates to projects at Crescent. This amount represents the face value of the guarantees; however, Crescent has already completed a substantial portion of its obligations under these guarantees. As of December 31, 2008, it is reasonably
possible that Duke Energy could have exposure of approximately $40 million under these guarantees should Crescent fail to perform under its obligations associated with these projects which would become more likely should Crescent declare bankruptcy
in the near future. See Note 12 for further information.       Duke Energy has entered into various indemnification agreements related to purchase and
sale agreements and other types of contractual agreements with vendors and other third parties. These agreements typically cover environmental, tax, litigation and other matters, as well as breaches of representations, warranties and covenants.
Typically, claims may be made by third parties for various periods of time, depending on the nature of the claim. Duke Energy s potential exposure under these indemnification agreements can range from a specified amount, such as the purchase
price, to an unlimited dollar amount, depending on the nature of the claim and the particular transaction. Duke Energy is unable to estimate the total potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements due to several factors,
such as the unlimited exposure under certain guarantees.       At December 31, 2008, the amounts of the fair value recorded for the guarantees and
indemnifications mentioned above are approximately $19 million, which is recorded in Other Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due to the continued downturn in the overall economic environment, Duke Energy
performed an assessment of its guarantee obligations as of December 31, 2008 to determine whether any FAS 5 liabilities have been triggered as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by parties for which Duke Energy has issued
guarantees. Based on the results of this analysis, as of December 31, 2008 management determined, with the exception of some insignificant amounts, that it is not probable that Duke Energy will have to perform under any guarantee
obligations. However, management will continue to monitor the financial condition of the third parties or non-wholly owned entities for whom Duke Energy has issued guarantees on behalf of, including its obligations related to Crescent discussed
above, to determine whether performance under these guarantees becomes probable in the future.              20. Earnings Per Share       Basic EPS is computed by dividing earnings available for common stockholders by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing earnings available for common stockholders, as adjusted, by the diluted weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other agreements to issue common stock, such as stock options, stock-based performance unit awards, contingently convertible debt and phantom stock awards, were
exercised, settled or converted into common stock.         
   169   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The following tables illustrate Duke Energy s basic and diluted EPS calculations and reconcile the weighted-average number of
common shares outstanding to the diluted weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.   
    The increase in weighted-average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the
same period in 2006 was due primarily to the April 2006 issuance of approximately 313 million shares in conjunction with the merger with Cinergy (see Note 1), the conversion of debt into approximately 27 million shares of Duke Energy
common stock during the year ended December 31, 2006 (see Note 16), and the repurchase and retirement of approximately 17.5 million shares of Duke Energy common stock during the year ended December 31, 2006.      Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common stock to fulfill obligations under its Dividend
Reinvestment Plan and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing up to an aggregate of approximately $600 million of common stock associated with these programs. Approximately $100 million of common stock
was issued during the fourth quarter of 2008 associated with these plans.      As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 15 million,
13 million and 14 million, respectively, of options, unvested stock, performance awards and phantom stock awards were not included in the  effect of dilutive securities  in the above table because either the option exercise
prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares during those periods or performance measures related to the awards had not yet been met.      As discussed further in Note 1, effective January 1, 2009, Duke Energy adopted the provisions of FSP EITF 03-6-1, which requires Duke Energy to compute basic EPS using the two-class method described in SFAS No.128 as Duke
Energy has certain share-based payment awards that meet the definition of participating securities.             21. Stock-Based Compensation       Duke Energy accounts for stock-based compensation under the provisions of SFAS
No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) established accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee and certain nonemployee services. Accordingly, for employee awards, equity classified stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant
date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period.         
   170   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Duke Energy s 2006 Long-term Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan), approved by shareholders in October 2006, reserved 60 million
shares of common stock for awards to employees and outside directors. The 2006 Plan superseded Duke Energy s 1998 Long-term Incentive Plan, as amended (the 1998 Plan), and no additional grants will be made from the 1998 Plan. Under the 2006
Plan, the exercise price of each option granted cannot be less than the market price of Duke Energy s common stock on the date of grant and the maximum option term is 10 years. The vesting periods range from immediate to five years. Duke Energy
has historically issued new shares upon exercising or vesting of share-based awards. In 2009, Duke Energy may use a combination of new share issuances and open market repurchases for share-based awards which are exercised or vested. Duke Energy has
not determined with certainty the amount of such new share issuances or open market repurchases.      The 2006 Plan allows for a maximum of
15 million shares of common stock to be issued under various stock-based awards other than options and stock appreciation rights.      Payments for
cash settled awards during the year ended December 31, 2008 were immaterial.             Impact of Spin-off on Equity Compensation Awards       As discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Spectra Energy was spun off by Duke
Energy to its shareholders. In connection with this transaction, Duke Energy distributed substantially all the shares of common stock of Spectra Energy to Duke Energy shareholders. The distribution ratio approved by Duke Energy s Board of
Directors was one-half share of Spectra Energy common stock for every share of Duke Energy common stock.      Effective with the spin-off, all previously
granted Duke Energy long-term incentive plan equity awards were split into Duke Energy and Spectra Energy equity-related awards, consistent with the spin-off conversion ratio. Each equity award (stock option, phantom share, performance share and
restricted stock award) was split into two awards: a Duke Energy award (issued by Duke Energy in Duke Energy shares) and a Spectra Energy award (issued by Spectra Energy in Spectra Energy shares). The number of shares covered by the adjusted Duke
Energy award equals the number of shares covered by the original award, and the number of shares covered by the Spectra Energy award equals the number of shares that would have been received in the spin-off by a non-employee shareholder (which
reflected the one-half share of Spectra Energy common stock for every share of Duke Energy common stock distribution ratio for Spectra Energy shares).      Stock option exercise prices were adjusted using a formula approved by the Duke Energy Compensation Committee that was designed to preserve the exercise versus market price spread (whether  in the money  or  out of the
money ) of each option. All equity award adjustments were designed to equalize the fair value of each award before and after the spin-off. Accordingly, no material incremental compensation expense was recognized as a result of the equity award
adjustments.      Duke Energy s future stock-based compensation expense will not be significantly impacted by the equity award adjustments that
occurred as a result of the spin-off. Stock-based compensation expense recognized in future periods will correspond to the unrecognized compensation expense as of the date of the spin-off. Unrecognized compensation expense as of the date of the
spin-off reflects the unamortized balance of the original grant date fair value of the equity awards held by Duke Energy employees (regardless of whether those awards are linked to Duke Energy stock or Spectra Energy stock). No future compensation
cost will be recognized by Duke Energy for equity awards held by Spectra Energy employees.             Stock-Based Compensation Expense       Duke Energy recorded pre-tax stock-based compensation expense included in Income From Continuing
Operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 as follows, the components of which are further described below:   
       
   171   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The tax benefit associated with the recorded expense in Income from Continuing Operations for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006 was approximately $17 million, $15 million and $24 million, respectively. As discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses to its shareholders, and the results of these
businesses are presented as discontinued operations. Accordingly, pre-tax stock-based compensation expense of approximately $18 million and a corresponding tax benefit of approximately $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 is included
in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.             Stock Option Activity    
     On December 31, 2007 and 2006, Duke Energy had approximately 20 million and 22 million
exercisable options, respectively, with a weighted-average exercise price of approximately $17 at each date. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $11 million,
$26 million and $46 million, respectively. Cash received from options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $30 million, $50 million and $127 million, respectively, with a related tax benefit of
approximately $4 million, $10 million and $17 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had less than $1 million of future compensation cost associated with unvested stock options which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of less than one year.       There were no options granted by Duke Energy during the years ended December 31, 2008 or
2007. Duke Energy granted 1,877,646 options (fair value of approximately $10 million based on a Black-Scholes model valuation) during the year ended December 31, 2006. Remaining compensation expense to be recognized for unvested converted
Cinergy options was determined using a Black-Scholes model.             Weighted-Average Assumptions for Option Pricing    

(1)  
  The risk free rate is based upon the U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity rates as of the grant date.     

(2)  
  The expected dividend yield is based upon annualized dividends and the 1-year average closing stock price.     

(3)  
  The expected term of options is derived from historical data.     

(4)  
  Volatility is based upon 50% historical and 50% implied volatility. Historic volatility is based on the weighted average between Duke Energy and Cinergy historical volatility over the
expected life using daily stock prices. Implied volatility is the average for all option contracts with a term greater than six months using the strike price closest to the stock price on the valuation date.               Phantom Stock Awards             Phantom stock awards outstanding under the 2006 Plan generally vest over periods from immediate to three years. Phantom stock awards
outstanding under the 1998 Plan generally vest over periods from immediate to five years. Duke Energy awarded 973,515 shares (fair value of approximately $17 million based on the market price of Duke Energy s common stock on the grant date)
during the year ended December 31, 2008, 1,163,180 shares (fair value of approximately $23 million based on the market price of Duke Energy s common stock at the grant date) in the year ended December 31, 2007, and 1,181,370 shares
(fair value of approximately $34 million based on the market price of Duke Energy common stock on the grant date) in the year ended December 31, 2006.         
   172   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The following table summarizes information about phantom stock awards outstanding at December 31, 2008:   
    The total fair value of the shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
approximately $20 million, $31 million and $23 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had approximately $12 million of future compensation cost associated with unvested phantom stock awards which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.             Performance Awards
       Stock-based awards outstanding under both the 2006 Plan and the 1998 Plan generally vest over three years. Vesting for certain stock-based
performance awards can occur in three years, at the earliest, if performance is met. Certain performance awards granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006 contain market conditions based on the total shareholder return (TSR) of Duke Energy stock relative to a
pre-defined peer group (relative TSR). These awards are valued using a path-dependent model that incorporates expected relative TSR into the fair value determination of Duke Energy s performance-based share awards with the adoption of SFAS
No. 123(R). The model uses three year historical volatilities and correlations for all companies in the pre-defined peer group, including Duke Energy, to simulate Duke Energy s relative TSR as of the end of the performance period. For each
simulation, Duke Energy s relative TSR associated with the simulated stock price at the end of the performance period plus expected dividends within the period results in a value per share for the award portfolio. The average of these
simulations is the expected portfolio value per share. Actual life to date results of Duke Energy s relative TSR for each grant is incorporated within the model. Other performance awards not containing market conditions were awarded in 2008 and
2007. The performance goal for these awards is Duke Energy s compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of annual diluted EPS over a three year period. These awards are measured at grant date price. Duke Energy awarded 2,407,755 shares (fair value of
approximately $37 million based on the market price of Duke Energy s common stock at the grant date) in the year ended December 31, 2008, 1,534,510 shares (fair value of approximately $23 million based on the market price of Duke
Energy s common stock at the grant date) in the year ended December 31, 2007, and 1,610,350 shares (fair value of approximately $32 million based on the market price of Duke Energy s common stock at the grant date) in the year ended
December 31, 2006.       The following table summarizes information about stock-based performance awards outstanding at December 31, 2008:
  
    The total fair value of the shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
approximately $20 million, $34 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had approximately $27 million of future compensation cost associated with unvested performance awards which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years.         
   173   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Other Stock Awards       Other stock awards
outstanding under the 1998 Plan generally vest over periods from three to five years. There were no other stock awards issued during the years ended December 31, 2008 or 2007. Duke Energy awarded 279,000 shares (fair value of approximately $8
million based on the market price of Duke Energy s common stock at the grant date) in the year ended December 31, 2006.      The following table
summarizes information about other stock awards outstanding at December 31, 2008:   
    The total fair value of the shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
approximately $2 million in each year. As of December 31, 2008, Duke Energy had approximately $2 million of future compensation cost which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.             22. Employee Benefit Plans         Duke Energy Retirement Plans.  Duke Energy and its subsidiaries (including legacy Cinergy businesses) maintain qualified, non-contributory defined benefit
retirement plans. The plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which varies with age
and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain legacy Cinergy U.S. employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under a final average earnings formula, a plan participant
accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a
percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.       Duke Energy s policy is to fund amounts on an actuarial basis to provide assets sufficient to meet benefits to be paid to plan participants. Duke Energy did
not make any contributions to its defined benefit retirement plans in 2008. Duke Energy made contributions of approximately $350 million and $124 million to the legacy Cinergy qualified pension plans during the years ended December 31, 2007 and
2006, respectively. In February 2009, Duke Energy made an approximate $500 million contribution to its qualified pension plans.      Actuarial gains and
losses are amortized over the average remaining service period of the active employees. The average remaining service period of active employees covered by the qualified retirement plans is 11 years. The average remaining service period of active
employees covered by the non-qualified retirement plans is 10 years. Duke Energy determines the market-related value of plan assets using a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value of the plan assets in a particular year on a straight
line basis over the next five years.       Net periodic pension costs disclosed in the tables below for the qualified, non-qualified and
other-postretirement benefit plans represent the cost of the respective pension plan for the periods presented. However, portions of the net periodic pension costs disclosed in the tables have been capitalized as a component of property, plant and
equipment.       Duke Energy adopted the funded status disclosure and recognition provisions of SFAS No. 158,   Employer s Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  (SFAS No. 158),  effective December 31, 2006. Duke Energy adopted the change in measurement date
transition requirements of SFAS No. 158 effective January 1, 2007 by remeasuring plan assets and benefit obligations as of that date. Previously, Duke Energy used a September 30 measurement date for its defined benefit and other
post-retirement plans. Additionally, as discussed in Note 1, on January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of its natural gas businesses to shareholders. As a result, the Westcoast Canadian retirement plans and Westcoast other
post-retirement benefit plans were transferred to Spectra Energy. The benefit obligation for the Westcoast Canadian retirement plans and Westcoast other post-retirement benefit plans was $832 million at December 31, 2006. The fair value of plan
assets for the Westcoast Canadian retirement plans and Westcoast other post-retirement benefit plans was $525 million at December 31, 2006.  
       
   174   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 The remaining pension and other post-retirement plan assets and liabilities distributed to Spectra Energy as part of the spin-off are disclosed in the table below.
     As a result of the change in measurement date, net periodic benefit cost of approximately $28 million for the three month period between
September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2006 was recognized, net of tax, as a separate reduction of retained earnings as of January 1, 2007. In addition, as reflected in the table below, changes in plan assets and plan obligations between
September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2006 not related to net periodic benefit cost were recognized, net of tax, as an adjustment to AOCI and regulatory assets.      The table below identifies significant changes to the individual line items in Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets during the year ended December 31, 2007 due to the factors above, for the Duke Energy retirement
and other post-retirement plans (amounts in brackets represent credits).   

(a)  
  These amounts are in addition to the assets and liabilities of the Westcoast plans that were also distributed to Spectra Energy, as discussed above.     

(b)  
  Amounts in the  Spin-off of the natural gas businesses  column exclude approximately $109 million, net of tax, related to accumulated other comprehensive losses of Westcoast that
were transferred in connection with the spin-off.                Qualified Pension
Plans               Components of Net Periodic Pension Costs: Qualified Pension Plans  

(b)  
  These amounts exclude pre-tax qualified pension cost of approximately $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily related to the Westcoast plans transferred to Spectra
Energy, which is included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.               Qualified Pension Plans Other Changes in Plan Assets and Projected Benefit Obligations        Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities (a)   

For the year ended December 31, 2008   

(in millions)   

Regulatory assets, net increase   
      
  $  
  770  

Regulatory liabilities, net decrease   

27  

Accumulated other comprehensive (income)/loss   

Deferred income tax asset   

(181  
  )   
 
    Actuarial losses arising during 2008   

492  

Amortization of prior year actuarial losses   

(3  
  )   
 
    Amortization of prior year prior service cost   

(4  
  )   

Net amount recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive (income)/loss   
      
  $  
  304  

(a)  
  Excludes actuarial gains recognized in other accumulated comprehensive income of approximately $6 million, net of tax, associated with a Brazilian retirement plan.     
      
   175   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Reconciliation of Funded Status to Net Amount Recognized: Qualified Pension Plans          
 
    The accumulated benefit obligation was $3,823 million at December 31, 2008 and $4,004 million at
December 31, 2007.             Qualified Pension
Plans Amounts Recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets Consist of:           
    The following table provides the amounts related to Duke Energy s qualified pension plans that are
reflected in Other Regulatory Assets and Deferred Debits, Deferred Credits and Other Liabilties and AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007:         
       
   176   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             Of the amounts above, approximately $3 million of unrecognized losses and approximately $7 million of unrecognized prior service cost
will be recognized in net periodic pension costs in 2009.             Additional Information:
       Qualified Pension Plans Information for Plans with Accumulated Benefit Obligation in Excess of Plan Assets          
           Qualified Pension Plans Assumptions Used
for Pension Benefits Accounting          
          The discount rate used to
determine the pension obligation is based on AA bond yields. The yield is selected based on bonds with cash flows that match the timing and amount of the expected benefit payments under the plan. For legacy Cinergy plans, the discount rate used in
2006 to determine expense reflects remeasurement as of April 1, 2006 due to the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy.             Qualified Pension Plan Assets          
    Assets for both the pension and other post retirement benefits are maintained in a Master Trust. The
investment objective of the master trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation targets were
set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile with respect to the trust. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, and real estate are held for diversification. Investments
within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to
the targeted allocation when considered appropriate.         
   177   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             The long-term rate of return of 8.5% as of December 31, 2008 for the Duke Energy U.S. assets was developed using a
weighted-average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted-average returns expected by asset classes were 3.0% for U.S. equities, 2.7% for
Non-U.S. equities, 2.5% for fixed income securities, and 0.3% for real estate.               Non-Qualified Pension Plans          Components of Net Periodic Pension Costs: Non-Qualified Pension Plans          

(a)  
  These amounts exclude pre-tax non-qualified pension cost of approximately $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily related to the Westcoast plans transferred to Spectra
Energy, which is included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.               Nonqualified Pension Plans Other Changes in Plan Assets and Projected Benefit Obligations         Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income           

For the year ended December 31, 2008   

(in millions)   

Accumulated other comprehensive (income)/loss   

Deferred income tax asset   
      
  $  
  3  

Prior service cost arising during 2008   

1  

Actuarial gains arising during 2008   

(4  
  )   
 
    Amortization of prior year actuarial losses   

(1  
  )   
 
    Amortization of prior year prior service cost   

(3  
  )   

Net amount recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income   
      
  $  
  (4  
  )   

Reconciliation of Funded
Status to Net Amount Recognized: Non-Qualified Pension Plans          
       
   178   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)          
    The accumulated benefit obligation was $154 million at December 31, 2008 and $160 million at
December 30, 2007.             Non-Qualified Pension Plans Amounts Recognized in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets               Consist of:          

(a)  
  Includes approximately $20 million and $15 million recognized in Other within Current Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
       The following table provides the amounts related to Duke Energy s non-qualified pension plans that are reflected in AOCI on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007:         
     Of the amounts above, approximately $2 million of unrecognized prior service cost will be recognized in
net periodic pension costs in 2009.             Additional Information:              Non-Qualified Pension Plans Information for Plans with Accumulated Benefit Obligation in Excess
of Plan Assets          
       
   179   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Non-Qualified Pension Plans Assumptions Used for Pension Benefits Accounting          
    The discount rate used to determine the pension obligation is based on a AA bond yield curve. The yield is
selected based on bonds with cash flows that match the timing and amount of the expected benefit payments under the plan. For legacy Cinergy plans, the discount rate used in 2006 to determine expense reflects remeasurement as of April 1, 2006
due to the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy.              Other Post-Retirement Benefit
Plans               Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries provide some
health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.   
  During the year ended December 31, 2007, Duke Energy contributed approximately $62 million to its other post-retirement benefit plans. Duke Energy did not
make any contributions to its other post-retirement benefit plans in 2008 or 2006.      These benefit costs are accrued over an employee s active
service period to the date of full benefits eligibility. The net unrecognized transition obligation is amortized over approximately 20 years. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the average remaining service period of the active employees.
The average remaining service period of the active employees covered by the plan is 12 years.             Components of Net Periodic Other Post-Retirement Benefit Costs     

(b)  
  These amounts exclude pre-tax qualified pension cost of approximately $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily related to the Westcoast plans transferred to Spectra
Energy, which is included in Income (Loss) From Discontinued Operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.     

(c)  
  Represents the correction of errors, primarily in periods prior to 2008, related to the accounting for Duke Energy s other post-retirement benefit plans that would have reduced amounts
recorded as other post-retirement benefit expense during those historical periods. Of this amount, approximately $15 million was capitalized as a component of property, plant and equipment.            
   180   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans Other Changes in Plan Assets and Projected Benefit Obligations        Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and Regulatory Assets           

For the year ended December 31, 2008   

(in millions)   

Regulatory assets, net decrease   
      
  $  
  (25  
  )   
 
    Accumulated other comprehensive (income)/loss   

Deferred income tax liability   

14  

Actuarial gains arising during 2008   

(57  
  )   
 
    Prior service cost arising during 2008   

(5  
  )   
 
    Prior period retiree medical accounting true-up adjustment   

23  

Amortization of prior year prior service credit   

2  

Amortization of prior year actuarial gains   

1  

Amortization of prior year net transition liability   

(1  
  )   

Net amount recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (income)/loss   
      
  $  
  (23  
  )   

Reconciliation of Funded Status to Accrued
Other Post-Retirement Benefit Costs           
        
    For measurement purposes, plan assets were valued as of December 31 for Duke Energy s U.S. plan.
        
   181   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans- Amounts Recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets Consist of:          

(a)  
  Includes approximately $2 million recognized in Other within Current Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
       The following table provides the amounts related to Duke Energy s other post-retirement benefit plans that are reflected in Other
Regulatory Assets and Deferred Debits and AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007:   
    Of the amounts above, approximately $10 million of unrecognized net transition obligation, approximately $4
million of unrecognized gains and approximately $8 million of unrecognized prior service credit (which will reduce pension expense) will be recognized in net periodic pension costs in 2009.      In May 2004, the FASB staff issued FSP FAS 106-2,   Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003   (FSP FAS 106-2). The Modernization Act introduced a prescription drug benefit under Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans. FSP FAS 106-2 provides guidance on the
accounting for the subsidy. Duke Energy adopted FSP FAS 106-2 and retroactively applied this FSP as of the date of issuance. The after-tax effect on net periodic post-retirement benefit cost was a decrease of $3 million in 2008, $3 million in 2007
and $8 million in 2006. Duke Energy has recognized an approximate $8 million subsidy receivable as of December 31, 2008, which is included in Receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.             Assumptions Used for Other Post-Retirement Benefits Accounting    

(a)  
  Applicable to the health care portion of funded post-retirement benefits.         The discount rate used to determine the post-retirement obligation is based on AA bond yields. The yield is selected based on bonds with cash flows that are similar to the timing and amount of the expected benefit payments under the plan.
For legacy Cinergy plans, the discount rate used to determine expense in 2006 reflects remeasurement as of April 1, 2006 due to the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy.         
   182   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Other Post-Retirement Plan Assets    
     Assets for both the pension and other post-retirement benefits are maintained in a Master Trust. The
investment objective of the trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation targets were set
after considering the investment objective and the risk profile with respect to the trust. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, and real estate are held for diversification. Investments within
asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the
targeted allocation when considered appropriate. The long-term rate of return of 8.5% as of December 31, 2008 for the Duke Energy U.S. assets was developed using a weighted-average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future
expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted-average returns expected by asset classes were 3.0% for U.S. equities, 2.7% for Non-U.S. equities, 2.5% for fixed income securities, and 0.3% for real
estate.       Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in the Duke Energy Corporation Employee Benefits Trust (VEBA I) and the Duke
Energy Corporation Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Trust (VEBA II). The investment objective of the VEBA s is to achieve sufficient returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the
security of plan benefits for participants. The VEBA trusts are passively managed. VEBA I has a target allocation of 30% U.S. equities, 45% fixed income securities and 25% cash. VEBA II has a target allocation of 50% U.S. equities and 50% fixed
income securities.             Assumed
Health Care Cost Trend Rates (a)     

(a)  
  Health care cost trend rates include prescription drug trend rate due to the effect of the Modernization Act.               Sensitivity to Changes in Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates (in millions)    

1-Percentage- Point Increase   
      
   1-Percentage- Point Decrease   

Effect on total service and interest costs   
      
  $  
  3  
      
  $  
  (2  
  )   
 
    Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation   

41  

(37  
  )   
    Duke Energy expects to make the future benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate. Duke Energy expects to receive future subsidies under Medicare Part D. The following benefit payments and subsidies are expected to be paid (or received) over each of the next five years and thereafter.         
   183   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              Expected Benefit Payments       The following
table presents Duke Energy s expected benefit payments to participants in its qualified, non-qualified and other post-retirement benefit plans over the next 10 years. These benefit payments reflect expected future service, as appropriate.

Employee Savings Plans        Duke Energy also sponsors employee savings plans that cover substantially all U.S. employees. Most
employees participate in a matching contribution formula where Duke Energy provides a matching contribution generally equal to 100% of before-tax employee contributions, of up to 6% of eligible pay per pay period. Duke Energy expensed employer
matching contributions of $78 million in 2008, $68 million in 2007 and $67 million in 2006. These amounts exclude pre-tax expenses of $8 million for the year ended 2006 related to Spectra Energy, which is included in Income (Loss) from Discontinued
Operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Dividends on Duke Energy shares held by the savings plans are charged to retained earnings when declared and shares held in the plans are considered outstanding in the calculation
of basic and diluted earnings per share.             23. Variable Interest Entities
       Power Sale Special Purpose Entities (SPEs ). In accordance with FIN 46R, Duke Energy is the primary beneficiary of and consolidates two
thinly-capitalized SPEs that have been created to finance and execute individual power sale agreements with Central Maine Power Company (CMP) for approximately 45 MW of capacity, ending in 2009, and 35 MW of capacity, ending in 2016. In addition,
these SPEs have individual power purchase agreements with Cinergy Capital   Trading, Inc. (Capital   Trading), a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, to supply the power. Capital   Trading also provides various
services, including certain credit support facilities. The following summarizes the structure of each entity:       CinCap IV  .  CinCap IV was
created in July 1998 to facilitate the buyout of a power sales agreement that Stratton Energy Associates (Stratton) held with CMP. Approximately $159 million was paid to Stratton to buyout that contract. This capital was raised through two debt
tranches (approximately 96.7% of CinCap IV capitalization) and equity (approximately 3.3% of CinCap IV capitalization). The equity was provided by 1998 CinPower Trust, which is in turned owned 90% by Barclays Bank (3% holder) and 10% by Cinergy
Capital and Trading (CCT). The capitalization (along with certain miscellaneous fees) of CinCap IV is to be repaid through a monthly reservation payment from CMP. Contemporaneous with the buyout of the Stratton PPA, CinCap IV executed a power sales
agreement with CMP (Replacement PPA) to deliver 45 MW of capacity and energy to CMP through August 2009. CinCap IV also executed a power purchase agreement with CCT (Supply PPA) that contains virtually identical terms, except for the aforementioned
reservation payment and a $3 less per MWh energy charge. Cinergy guarantees the performance of CCT under this PPA (with market-based liquidated damages), but does not guarantee the payment by CinCap IV on its debt obligations.       CinCap V  .  CinCap V was created in February 1999 to facilitate the buyout of a power sales agreement that Alternative Energy (AEI) held with CMP.
Approximately $96 million was paid to AEI to buyout that contract. This capital was raised through two debt tranches (approximately 96.7% of CinCap V capitalization) and equity (approximately 3.3% of CinCap IV capitalization). The equity was
provided by two parties: (a) 90% by Franklin Life Insurance Company and (b) 10% by Cinergy Capital and Trading (CCT). The capitalization (along with certain miscellaneous fees) of CinCap V is to be repaid through a monthly reservation
payment from CMP. Contemporaneous with the buyout of the AEI PPA, CinCap V executed a power sales agreement with CMP (Replacement PPA) to deliver 35 MW (only 25 in certain  
       
   184   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 months) of capacity and energy to CMP through December 2016. CinCap V also executed a power purchase agreement with CCT (Supply PPA) that contains virtually identical
terms, except for the aforementioned reservation payment and a $0.50 less per MWh energy charge. Cinergy guarantees the performance of CCT under this PPA (with market-based liquidated damages), but does not guarantee the payment by CinCap IV on its
debt obligations.      These two SPEs meet the definition of a variable interest entity (VIE) under FIN 46R and are subject to that guidance because the
equity investment at risk in these SPEs is insufficient to permit the financing of their activities without additional subordinated financial support (i.e., debt financing). As a result of a quantitative analysis of the contractual, ownership, and
other financial interests in the SPEs (i.e., variable interests), Duke Energy has been deemed the primary beneficiary of these entities as it absorbs a majority of the expected losses of these SPEs. In accordance with FIN 46R, Duke Energy
consolidates these SPEs and, as such, the transactions between Capital   Trading and the two SPEs are eliminated in consolidation.       As a
result of the consolidation of these two SPEs, approximately $117 million and $146 million of notes receivable is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of these amounts, $24 million and $29
million are included in Receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $93 million and $117 million are included in Notes Receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately $108 million
and $136 million of non-recourse debt is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, of which $19 million and $28 million is included in Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $89 million and $108 million is
included in Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, miscellaneous other assets and liabilities are included on Duke Energy s Consolidated Balance Sheets at
December 31, 2008 and 2007. The debt was incurred by the SPEs to finance the buyout of the existing power contracts that CMP held with the former suppliers. The notes receivable is comprised of two separate notes with one counterparty, whose
credit rating is BBB+. The cash flows from the notes receivable are designed to repay the debt. The first note receivable, with a balance of $17 million and $40 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, bears an effective interest
rate of 7.81% and matures in August 2009. The second note receivable, with a balance of $100 million and $106 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, bears an effective interest rate of 9.23% and matures in December 2016.
      The following table reflects the maturities of the Notes Receivable as of December 31, 2008:             Notes Receivable Maturities          
      Subsidiary Trust Preferred Securities.  In 2001, Cinergy issued approximately $316 million notional
amount of 6.9% trust preferred securities, due February 2007. The trust preferred securities were issued through a trust whose common stock was 100% owned by Cinergy. The trust loaned the proceeds from the issuance of the securities to Cinergy in
exchange for a note payable to the trust. Each trust preferred security unit received quarterly cash payments of 6.9% per annum of the notional amount, which represented a trust preferred security dividend. The trust s ability to pay
dividends on the trust preferred securities was solely dependent on its receipt of interest payments from Cinergy on the note payable. However, Cinergy had fully and unconditionally guaranteed the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred
securities were not included in Duke Energy s Balance Sheets. In February 2007, these trust preferred securities were redeemed on their scheduled maturity date and the note payable was settled.        Accounts Receivable Securitization.        Cinergy
Receivables Company  .  During 2002, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky entered into an agreement to sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections through Cinergy Receivables, a bankruptcy
remote, special purpose entity. Cinergy Receivables is a wholly-owned limited liability company of Cinergy and was formed in 2002 through a $5 million  
       
   185   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)            
 equity contribution by Cinergy to purchase certain accounts receivable of Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. The purpose of the formation
of Cinergy Receivables was to improve liquidity at the lowest possible financing cost. As a result of the securitization, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky sell, on a revolving basis, nearly all of their retail accounts
receivable and related collections. The securitization transaction was structured to meet the criteria for sale treatment under SFAS No. 140 and, accordingly, Duke Energy does not consolidate Cinergy Receivables and the transfers of receivables
are accounted for as sales.      The proceeds obtained from the sales of receivables are largely cash but do include a subordinated note from Cinergy
Receivables for a portion of the purchase price (typically approximates 25% of the total proceeds). The note, which amounts to approximately $292 million and $299 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is subordinate to senior
loans that Cinergy Receivables obtains from commercial paper conduits controlled by unrelated financial institutions. Cinergy Receivables provides credit enhancement related to senior loans in the form of over-collateralization of the purchased
receivables. However, the over-collateralization is calculated monthly and does not extend to the entire pool of receivables held by Cinergy Receivables at any point in time. As such, these senior loans do not have recourse to all assets of Cinergy
Receivables. These loans provide the cash portion of the proceeds paid to Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.      This
subordinated note is a retained interest (right to receive a specified portion of cash flows from the sold assets) under SFAS No. 140 and is classified within Receivables in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008
and 2007. In addition, Duke Energy s investment in Cinergy Receivables constitutes a purchased beneficial interest (purchased right to receive specified cash flows, in our case residual cash flows), which is subordinate to the retained
interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.      In 2008, Cinergy Receivables and Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy
Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana amended the governing purchase and sale agreement to allow Cinergy Receivables to convey its bankrupt receivables to the applicable originator for consideration equal to the fair market value of such receivables as
of the disposition date. The amount of bankrupt receivables sold is limited to 1% of aggregate sales of the originator during the most recently completed 12 month period. Cinergy Receivables and Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy
Indiana completed a sale under this amendment in 2008.      As of December 2008, Cinergy has not provided Cinergy Receivables with any additional
financial support. However, per the governing purchase and sale agreement, Cinergy Receivables is required to maintain a minimum net worth of $3 million. As described below, in December 2008, Cinergy Receivables recorded a $15 million increase in
its provision for uncollectible accounts which reduced its net worth below the $3 million threshold. In 2009, Cinergy plans to infuse equity into Cinergy Receivables to remedy the net worth deficiency.      Duke Energy Ohio retains servicing responsibilities for its role as a collection agent on the amounts due on the sold receivables. However, Cinergy Receivables
assumes the risk of collection on the purchased receivables without recourse to Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky in the event of a loss. While no direct recourse to Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy
Kentucky exists, these entities risk loss in the event collections are not sufficient to allow for full recovery of their retained interests. No servicing asset or liability is recorded since the servicing fee paid to Duke Energy Ohio approximates a
market rate.      The carrying values of the retained interests are determined by allocating the carrying value of the receivables between the assets sold
and the interests retained based on relative fair value. The key assumptions used in estimating the fair value for 2008 were an anticipated credit loss ratio of 0.6%, a discount rate of 5.3% and a receivable turnover rate of 11.4%. The key
assumptions used in estimating the fair value for 2007 were an anticipated credit loss ratio of 0.6%, a discount rate of 7.7% and a receivable turnover rate of 11.7%. Because (a) the receivables generally turnover in less than two months,
(b) credit losses are reasonably predictable due to the broad customer base and lack of significant concentration, and (c) the purchased beneficial interest is subordinate to all retained interests and thus would absorb losses first, the
allocated bases of the subordinated notes are not materially different than their face value. The hypothetical effect on the fair value of the retained interests assuming both a 10% and a 20% unfavorable variation in credit losses or discount rates
is not material due to the short turnover of receivables and historically low credit loss history. Interest accrues to Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky on the retained interests using the accretable yield method, which
generally approximates the stated rate on the notes since the allocated basis and the face value are nearly equivalent. Duke Energy records income from Cinergy Receivables in a similar manner. An impairment charge is recorded against the carrying
value of both the retained interests and purchased beneficial interest whenever it is determined that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred.         
   186   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)             In December 2008, Cinergy Receivables recorded a $15 million increase in its provision for uncollectible accounts due primarily to the
increasing amount of receivables greater than 90 days in arrears for Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky. The greater amount of receivables in arrears is partially attributable to the economic downturn in 2008 having a negative impact on
customers  ability to pay their utility bills. Cinergy Receivables, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana will continue to monitor arrearages to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred.
     The following table shows the gross and net receivables sold, retained interests, purchased beneficial interest, sales, and cash flows during the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:         
     Cash flows from the sale of receivables for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 are
reflected within Operating Activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.      Collection fees received in connection with the servicing of
transferred accounts receivable for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are included in Operation, maintenance and other on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.      The loss recognized on the sale of receivables is calculated monthly by multiplying the receivables sold during the month by the required discount which is derived
monthly utilizing a three year weighted average formula that considers charge-off history, late charge history, and turnover history on the sold receivables, as well as a component for the time value of money. The discount rate, or component for the
time value of money, is calculated monthly by summing the prior month-end LIBOR rate plus a fixed rate of 2.39%.             24. Other Income and Expenses, net       The components of Other Income and
Expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:         

(a)  
  Losses for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily relate to International Energy s remeasurement of certain cash and debt balances into the functional currency.

(b)  
  The increase in 2008 is primarily related to increased capital spending primarily within the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. See Note 4 for further information.

(c)  
  See Note 10 for additional information.           
   187   

Table of Contents  

   PART II      DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
      Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)              25. Subsequent Events       For information on
subsequent events related to acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and sales of other assets, regulatory matters, debt and credit facilities, commitments and contingencies and employee benefit plans, see Notes 3, 4, 16, 18 and 22,
respectively.             26. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)          

(a)  
  Quarterly EPS amounts are meant to be stand-alone calculations and are not always additive to full-year amount due to rounding.        During the first quarter of 2008, Duke Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently occurring item: Duke Energy s proportionate share of impairment
charges recorded by Crescent, which amounted to a pre-tax charge of approximately $11 million (see Note 12).      During the second quarter of 2008, Duke
Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently occurring items: Duke Energy s proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent, which amounted to a pre-tax charge of approximately $113 million (see Note 12); an approximate
$23 million pre-tax gain related to the sale of Brownsville (see Note 14); and an approximate $4 million charge related to other-than-temporary impairment of investments in auction rate securities (see Note 13).      During the third quarter of 2008, Duke Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently occurring items: Duke Energy s proportionate share of impairment
charges recorded by Crescent, which amounted to a pre-tax charge of approximately $114 million (see Note 12); and an approximate $82 million pre-tax impairment charge related to emission allowances (see Note 13).       During the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently occurring items: an approximate $67 million after-tax (approximately
$103 million pre-tax) extraordinary gain related to the reapplication of SFAS No. 71 to certain operations of Commercial Power (see Note 1).       During the first quarter of 2007, Duke Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently occurring items: an approximate $21 million pre-tax charge related to convertible debt (see Note 16) and a $22 million reduction in income tax
expense due to a reduction in the unitary tax rate.      During the second quarter of 2007, Duke Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently
occurring item: an approximate $12 million pre-tax charge related to a voluntary severance program (see Note 13).      During the third quarter of 2007,
Duke Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently occurring item: an approximate $20 million pre-tax benefit associated with contract settlement negotiations (see Note 18).      During the fourth quarter of 2007, Duke Energy recorded the following unusual or infrequently occurring item: Duke Energy s proportionate share of impairment
charges recorded by Crescent, which amounted to a pre-tax charge of approximately $32 million (see Note 12), income tax expense of approximately $31 million related to an additional phase-out of the tax credits associated with the synfuel operations
(see Notes 14 and 18), an approximate $25 million pre-tax gain related to reserves for contract settlement negotiations (see Note 18) and an approximate $21 million pre-tax charge related to the settlement of an outstanding litigation matter (see
Note 18).         
   188   

Table of Contents  

     DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION        SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS         CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS        (In millions, except per-share amounts)          
           See Notes to Condensed
Parent Company Financial Statements         
   189   

Table of Contents  

     DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION        SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS         CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS        (In millions, except per-share amounts)                      
            See Notes to Condensed
Parent Company Financial Statements          
   190   

Table of Contents  

     DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION        SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS         CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (In millions)                
           See Notes to Condensed
Parent Company Financial Statements         
   191   

Table of Contents  

     DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION       SCHEDULE I CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS               1. Basis of Presentation       Duke Energy Corporation (Duke Energy) is a holding company that conducts substantially all of its business
operations through its subsidiaries. As specified in the merger conditions issued by various state commissions in connection with Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy Corp. (Cinergy) in April 2006, there are restrictions on Duke Energy s
ability to obtain funds from certain of its subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Regulatory Matters.  Accordingly, these condensed financial
statements have been prepared on a parent-only basis. Under this parent-only presentation, Duke Energy s investments in its consolidated subsidiaries are presented under the equity method of accounting. In accordance with Rule 12-04 of
Regulation S-X, these parent-only financial statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.) for annual financial statements. Because these
parent-only financial statements and notes do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP in the U.S. for annual financial statements, these parent-only financial statements and other information included should be read in
conjunction with Duke Energy s audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained within Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.       Duke Energy and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return and other state and foreign jurisdictional returns as required. The taxable income of
Duke Energy s wholly-owned operating subsidiaries is reflected in Duke Energy s U.S. federal and state income tax returns. Duke Energy has a tax sharing agreement with its wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, where the separate return
method is used to allocate tax expenses and benefits to the wholly-owned operating subsidiaries whose investments or results of operations provide these tax expenses and benefits. The accounting for income taxes essentially represents the income
taxes that Duke Energy s wholly-owned operating subsidiaries would incur if each were a separate company filing its own tax return as a C-Corporation.         
   2. Debt               Summary of Debt and Related Terms          

(a)  
  Includes $450 million as of December 31, 2008 that was classified as Long-term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the existence of long-term credit facilities which back-stop
these commercial paper balances, along with Duke Energy s ability and intent to refinance these balances on a long-term basis. The weighted-average days to maturity was 10 days as of December 31, 2008.        In June 2008, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior notes, of which $250 million carries a fixed interest rate of 5.65% and matures
June 15, 2013 and $250 million carries a fixed interest rate of 6.25% and matures June 15, 2018. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy s non-regulated businesses
in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.       In September 2008, Duke Energy borrowed approximately $274 million under its master credit
facility and that amount remained outstanding as of December 31, 2008. For additional information on Duke Energy s master credit facility, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Debt and Credit Facilities.  The
loans under the master credit facility are revolving credit loans that currently bear interest at one-month LIBOR plus an applicable spread. The loan for Duke Energy has a stated maturity of June 2012.       In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of senior notes which carries a fixed interest rate of 6.30% and matures February 2014. Proceeds
from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.       At December 31, 2008, Duke Energy has guaranteed
approximately $2.6 billion of debt issued by Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, one of Duke Energy s wholly-owned operating subsidiaries.          
   192   

Table of Contents  

     DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION       SCHEDULE I CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              Annual Maturities as of December 31, 2008          

(a)  
  Excludes short-term notes payable and commercial paper of $264 million.                3. Commitments and Contingencies        Duke Energy and its subsidiaries
are a party to litigation, environmental and other matters. For further information, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Commitments and Contingencies.       Duke Energy has various financial and performance guarantees and indemnifications which are issued in the normal course of business. These contracts include
performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications. Duke Energy enters into these arrangements to facilitate a commercial transaction with a third party by enhancing the value of the transaction to
the third party. The maximum potential amount of future payments Duke Energy could have been required to make under these guarantees as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $4.2 billion. Of this amount, approximately $4 billion relates to
guarantees of wholly-owned consolidated entities, including debt issued by Duke Energy Carolinas discussed above, and less than wholly-owned consolidated entities. The majority of these guarantees expire at various times between 2008 and 2033, with
the remaining performance guarantees having no contractual expiration. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Guarantees and Indemnifications,  for further discussion of guarantees issued on behalf of unconsolidated
affiliates and third parties.              4. Related Party Transactions    
  Balances due to or due from related parties included in the Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:         

(a)  
  Balance excludes assets or liabilities associated with money pool arrangements, which are discussed below.     

(d)  
  The balance at December 31, 2008 is classified as Other Long-Term Liabilities on the Balance Sheets.        During 2007, Duke Energy began providing support to certain subsidiaries for their short-term borrowing needs through participation in a money pool arrangement.
Under this arrangement, certain subsidiaries with short-term funds may provide short-term loans to affiliates participating under this arrangement. Additionally, Duke Energy provides loans to subsidiaries through the money pool, but is not permitted
to borrow funds through the money pool arrangement. Duke Energy had receivables of approximately $863 million and $548 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, classified within Receivables in the accompanying Balance Sheets.
Additionally, Duke Energy had money pool-related receivables of $450 million classified as Notes Receivable within Investments and Other Assets on the Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. The $765 million increase in money pool receivables
during 2008 and the $548 million increase during 2007 are reflected as Notes Receivable from Affiliates, net within Net Cash Used in Investing Activities on the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows. In conjunction with the money pool arrangement, Duke
Energy recorded interest income of $23 million in 2008 and $16 million in 2007, which is included in Other Income and Expenses, net on the Statements of Operations. Duke Energy did not record any money pool interest income during 2006.   
     
   193   

Table of Contents  

     DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION       SCHEDULE I CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             Duke Energy also provides funding to and sweeps cash from subsidiaries that do not participate in the money pool. For these subsidiaries, the cash is used in or generated from their operations, capital expenditures, debt
payments and other activities. Amounts funded or received are carried as open accounts as either Investments and Advances to Consolidated Subsidiaries or as Other Non-Current Liabilities and do not bear interest. These amounts are included within
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities on the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows.      Additionally, Duke Energy recorded $1 million of interest
expense in 2007 associated with credit support provided to a subsidiary, which is included in Interest Expense on the Statement of Operations.       During 2007, Duke Energy contributed $204 million of capital to its wholly owned subsidiary, Cinergy Corp and in 2006 contributed $200 million to its wholly-owned subsidiary, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC. Additionally, Duke Energy received
$200 million in 2008 and $135 million of dividends from Cinergy Corp in 2007, which is reflected within Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities on the Condensed Statements of Cash Flows. During 2006, Spectra Energy Capital, LLC distributed $2,361
million to Duke Energy, which was primarily obtained from the proceeds received on Spectra Energy Capital, LLC s sale of 50% of Crescent Resources.          
   194   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV       DUKE ENERGY
CORPORATION       SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES          

(a)  
  Principally cash payments and reserve reversals. For 2007, this also includes the effects of amounts included in the spin-off of Spectra Energy on January 2, 2007 and the impacts of
adoption of FIN 48.     

(b)  
  Principally nuclear property insurance reserves at Duke Energy Carolinas, insurance reserves at Bison and other reserves, included in Other Current Liabilities or Deferred Credits and Other
Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(c)  
  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 and thereafter include balances and activity related to Duke Energy s merger with Cinergy in April 2006.        The valuation and reserve amounts above do not include unrecognized tax benefits amounts or deferred tax asset valuation allowance amounts.         
   195   

Table of Contents  

   PART II               Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.       None.               Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.              Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed by Duke Energy in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified by the
Securities and Exchange Commission s (SEC) rules and forms.      Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and
procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by Duke Energy in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.      Under the supervision and with the
participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Duke Energy has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2008, and, based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance of compliance.
            Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting       Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Duke Energy has evaluated changes
in internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008 and have concluded that no change has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting.             Management s Annual Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Duke Energy s management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with policies and procedures may deteriorate.      Duke Energy s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.      Deloitte   Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of Duke Energy s
internal control over financial reporting.         
   196   

Table of Contents  

     PART III               Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.       Reference to  Executive Officers of Duke Energy  is included in  Item 1. Business  of this report. Information in response to this item is incorporated by reference to Duke Energy s Proxy Statement
relating to Duke Energy s 2009 annual meeting of shareholders.       
        Item 11. Executive Compensation.       Information in response to this item is incorporated by reference to Duke Energy s Proxy Statement relating to Duke Energy s 2009 annual meeting of shareholders.               Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.
      Information in response to this item is incorporated by reference to Duke Energy s Proxy Statement relating to Duke Energy s 2009
annual meeting of shareholders.      This table shows information about securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights
under Duke Energy s equity compensation plans, along with the weighted-average exercise price of the outstanding options, warrants and rights and the number of securities remaining available for future issuance under the plans.         

(1)  
  Duke Energy has not granted any warrants or rights under any equity compensation plans. Amounts do not include 4,141,968 outstanding options with a weighted average exercise price of $13.82
assumed in connection with various mergers and acquisitions.     

(2)  
  Does not include 7,298,070 shares of Duke Energy Common Stock to be issued upon vesting of phantom stock and performance share awards outstanding as of December 31, 2008.

(3)  
  Includes 8,899,040 shares remaining available for issuance for awards of restricted stock, performance shares or phantom stock under the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

(4)  
  Does not include 127,645 shares of Duke Energy Common Stock to be issued upon vesting of phantom stock and performance share awards outstanding as of December 31, 2008.
                Item 13. Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence       Information in response to this item is incorporated by reference to Duke Energy s Proxy
Statement relating to Duke Energy s 2009 annual meeting of shareholders.       
        Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.       Information in response to this item is incorporated by reference to Duke Energy s Proxy Statement relating to Duke Energy s 2009 annual meeting of shareholders.         
   197   

Table of Contents  

     PART IV               Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.       (a) Consolidated Financial Statements, Supplemental Financial Data and Supplemental Schedules included in Part II of this annual report are as follows:      Duke Energy Corporation:            Consolidated Financial Statements            Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006            Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007       
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006            Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders  Equity and
Comprehensive Income for the Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006            Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements            Quarterly Financial Data, as revised (unaudited, included in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)            Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule I Condensed Parent
Company Financial Information for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006            Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006            Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm            Separate Financial Statements of Subsidiaries not
Consolidated Pursuant to Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X:            DCP Midstream,
LLC. (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC):            Independent Auditors  Report            Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005            Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005            Consolidated Statements of Members  Equity for the Years Ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005            Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements            Consolidated Financial Statement
Schedule II of DCP Midstream, LLC Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005            (b) Exhibits See Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page.         
   198   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.             Date: February 27, 2009          

DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION     (Registrant)    

By:   
     
    /s/    J AMES  E.
R OGERS             

James E. Rogers     Chairman,
President and     Chief Executive Officer    
 
          Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.    

(i)  
  James E. Rogers*        Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal
Executive Officer and Director)         

(ii)  
  /s/ David L. Hauser        Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
Financial Officer)         

(iii)  
  Steven K. Young*        Senior Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting
Officer)         

(iv)  
  William Barnet, III*        Director   

G. Alex Bernhardt, Sr.*        Director   

Michael G. Browning*        Director   

Daniel R. DiMicco*        Director   

Ann Maynard Gray*        Director   

James H. Hance, Jr.*        Director   

James T. Rhodes*        Director   

Dudley S. Taft*        Director            Date: February 27, 2009            David L. Hauser, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this document on behalf of the registrant and on behalf of each of the
above-named persons previously indicated by asterisk pursuant to a power of attorney duly executed by the registrant and such persons, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit hereto.          

By:  
     
    /s/    D AVID  L.
H AUSER             

Attorney-In-Fact   

199   

Table of Contents  

          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS  REPORT      To the Board of Directors and Members of DCP Midstream, LLC Denver, Colorado      We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of DCP Midstream, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, members  equity, and cash flows
for the years then ended. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted
our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of DCP Midstream, LLC and subsidiaries at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.            March 7, 2008          
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Consolidated Balance Sheets        As of December 31, 2006 and 2005        (millions)          
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.         
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005        (millions)
         
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.         
   F-3   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005        (millions)
         
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.         
   F-4   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Consolidated Statements of Members  Equity        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005        (millions)
         
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.         
   F-5   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              1. General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies         Basis of
Presentation   DCP Midstream, LLC, formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC, with its consolidated subsidiaries, us, we, our, or the Company, is a joint venture owned 50% by Duke Energy Corporation, or Duke Energy, and 50% by
ConocoPhillips. We operate in the midstream natural gas industry. Our primary operations consist of natural gas gathering, processing, compression, transportation and storage, and natural gas liquid, or NGL, fractionation, transportation, gathering,
treating, processing and storage, as well as marketing, from which we generate revenues primarily by trading and marketing natural gas and NGLs. The Second Amended and Restated LLC Agreement dated July 5, 2005, as amended, or the LLC Agreement,
limits the scope of our business to the midstream natural gas industry in the United States and Canada, the marketing of NGLs in Mexico, and the transportation, marketing and storage of other petroleum products, unless otherwise approved by our
board of directors.      To support and facilitate our continued growth, we formed DCP Midstream Partners, LP, a master limited partnership, or DCP
Partners, of which our subsidiary, DCP Midstream GP, LP, acts as general partner. In September 2005, DCP Partners filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, to register the initial public offering
of its limited partnership units to the public. The initial public offering closed in December 2005. We own approximately 41% of the limited partnership interests in DCP Partners and a 2% general partnership interest. As the general partner of DCP
Partners, we have responsibility for its operations. DCP Partners is accounted for as a consolidated subsidiary.      In July 2005, Duke Energy
transferred a 19.7% interest in our Company to ConocoPhillips in exchange for direct and indirect monetary and non-monetary consideration, effectively decreasing Duke Energy s membership interest in our Company to 50% and increasing
ConocoPhillips  membership interest in our Company to 50%, referred to as  the 50-50 Transaction.  Included in this transaction, we distributed to Duke Energy substantially all of our Canadian business, made a disproportionate cash
distribution of approximately $1,100 million to Duke Energy using the proceeds from the sale of our general partner interest in TEPPCO and paid a $245 million proportionate distribution to Duke Energy and ConocoPhillips. In addition, ConocoPhillips
contributed cash of $398 million to our Company. Under the terms of the amended and restated LLC Agreement, proceeds from this contribution were designated for the acquisition or improvement of property, plant and equipment. At December 31,
2006, there was no remaining restricted investment balance related to this contribution.      On June 28, 2006, Duke Energy s board of directors
approved a plan to create two separate publicly traded companies by spinning off Duke Energy s natural gas businesses, including its 50% ownership interest in us, to Duke Energy shareholders. This transaction occurred on January 2, 2007.
As a result of this transaction, we are no longer 50% owned by Duke Energy. Duke Energy s 50% ownership interest in us was transferred to a new company, Spectra Energy Corp, or Spectra Energy. This transaction is referred to in this report as
 the Spectra spin.  For the historical periods included in this report, references to Spectra Energy are interchangeable with Duke Energy. On a prospective basis, Spectra Energy refers to the newly formed public company.      We are governed by a five member board of directors, consisting of two voting members from each parent and our Chief Executive Officer and President, a non-voting
member. All decisions requiring board of directors  approval are made by simple majority vote of the board, but must include at least one vote from both a Spectra Energy (or Duke Energy prior to January 2, 2007) and ConocoPhillips board
member. In the event the board cannot reach a majority decision, the decision is appealed to the Chief Executive Officers of both Spectra Energy and ConocoPhillips.      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all majority-owned subsidiaries where we have the ability to exercise control, variable interest entities where we are the primary beneficiary, and
undivided interests in jointly owned assets. We also consolidate DCP Partners, which we control as the general partner and where the limited partners do not have substantive kick-out or participating rights. Investments in greater than 20% owned
affiliates that are not variable interest entities and where we do not have the ability to exercise control, and investments in less than 20% owned affiliates where we have the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for using the
equity method. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.        Use of Estimates   Conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and notes. Although these estimates are based on management s best available
knowledge of current and expected future events, actual results could be different from those estimates.        Acquisitions     We
consolidate assets and liabilities from acquisitions as of the purchase date, and include earnings from acquisitions in consolidated earnings subsequent to the purchase date. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at estimated fair
values on the date of acquisition. If the acquisition constitutes a business, any excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.         
   F-6   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005               Reclassifications   Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified in the consolidated financial statements to conform to the current period
presentation.        Cash and Cash Equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents includes all cash balances and highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less.        Short-Term and Restricted Investments   We invest available cash balances in various
financial instruments, such as tax-exempt debt securities, that have stated maturities of 20 years or more. These instruments provide for a high degree of liquidity through features, which allow for the redemption of the investment at its face
amount plus earned income. As we generally intend to sell these instruments within one year or less from the balance sheet date, and as they are available for use in current operations, they are classified as current assets, unless otherwise
restricted. We have classified all short-term and restricted debt investments as available-for-sale under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 115,   Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities,   and they are carried at fair market value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), or AOCI. No such gains or
losses were deferred in AOCI at December 31, 2006 or 2005. The cost, including accrued interest on investments, approximates fair value, due to the short-term, highly liquid nature of the securities held by us and as interest rates are re-set
on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.        Inventories   Inventories consist primarily of natural gas and NGLs held in storage for
transportation and processing and sales commitments. Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost or market. Transportation costs are included in inventory on the consolidated balance sheets.        Accounting for Risk Management and Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments   Each derivative not qualifying for the normal purchases and
normal sales exception under SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,   or SFAS 133, as amended, is recorded on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheets at its fair value as unrealized
gains or unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments. Derivative assets and liabilities remain classified in the consolidated balance sheets as unrealized gains or unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments at fair
value until the contractual delivery period impacts earnings.      We designate each energy commodity derivative as either trading or non-trading. Certain
non-trading derivatives are further designated as either a hedge of a forecasted transaction or future cash flow (cash flow hedge), a hedge of a recognized asset, liability or firm commitment (fair value hedge), or a normal purchase or normal sale
contract, while certain non-trading derivatives, which are related to asset based activity, are non-trading mark-to-market derivatives. For each of our derivatives, the accounting method and presentation in the consolidated statements of operations
and comprehensive income are as follows:   

Classification of Contract   
      
   Accounting Method   
      
   Presentation of Gains   Losses or Revenue   Expense    
 
    Trading Derivatives   
      
  Mark-to-market method a   
      
  Net basis in trading and marketing gains (losses)   
 
    Non-Trading Derivatives:   

Cash Flow Hedge   
      
  Hedge method b   
      
  Gross basis in the same consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income category as the related hedged item   
 
    Fair Value Hedge   
      
  Hedge method b   
      
  Gross basis in the same consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income category as the related hedged item   
 
    Normal Purchase or     Normal Sale   
      
  Accrual method c   
      
  Gross basis upon settlement in the corresponding consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income category based on purchase or sale   
 
    Non-Trading Derivatives   
      
  Mark-to-market method a   
      
  Net basis in trading and marketing gains (losses)   

a    
    Mark-to-market An accounting method whereby the change in the fair value of the asset or liability is recognized in the
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income in trading and marketing gains (losses) during the current period.      

b    
    Hedge method An accounting method whereby the change in the fair value of the asset or liability is recorded in the
consolidated balance sheets as unrealized gains or unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments. For cash flow hedges, there is no recognition in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for the effective
portion until the service is provided or the associated delivery period impacts earnings. For fair value hedges, the changes in the fair value of the asset or liability, as well as the offsetting changes in value of the hedged item, are recognized
in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income in the same category as the related hedged item.      

c    
    Accrual method An accounting method whereby there is no recognition in the consolidated balance sheets or consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income for changes in fair value of a contract until the service is provided or the associated delivery period impacts earnings.          Cash Flow and Fair Value Hedges  For derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge, we maintain formal documentation of the hedge in
accordance with SFAS 133. In addition, we formally assess, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the hedge contract is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows or fair values of hedged items. All components
of each derivative gain or loss are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness, unless otherwise noted.         
   F-7   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             The fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as unrealized gains or unrealized losses on
mark-to-market and hedging instruments. The effective portion of the change in fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as AOCI and the ineffective portion is recorded in the
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. During the period in which the hedged transaction impacts earnings, amounts in AOCI associated with the hedged transaction are reclassified to the consolidated statements of operations
and comprehensive income in the same accounts as the item being hedged. We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when it is determined that the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective hedge, or when it is probable that the hedged
transaction will not occur. When hedge accounting is discontinued because the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective hedge, the derivative is subject to the mark-to-market accounting method prospectively. The derivative continues to be
carried on the consolidated balance sheets at its fair value; however, subsequent changes in its fair value are recognized in current period earnings. Gains and losses related to discontinued hedges that were previously accumulated in AOCI will
remain in AOCI until the hedged transaction impacts earnings, unless it is probable that the hedged transaction will not occur, in which case, the gains and losses that were previously deferred in AOCI will be immediately recognized in current
period earnings.      For derivatives designated as fair value hedges, we recognize the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the
offsetting changes in value of the hedged item in earnings in the current period. All derivatives designated and accounted for as fair value hedges are classified in the same category as the item being hedged in the consolidated statements of
operations and comprehensive income.       Valuation  When available, quoted market prices or prices obtained through external sources are used
to determine a contract s fair value. For contracts with a delivery location or duration for which quoted market prices are not available, fair value is determined based on pricing models developed primarily from historical and expected
correlations with quoted market prices.      Values are adjusted to reflect the credit risk inherent in the transaction as well as the potential impact of
liquidating open positions in an orderly manner over a reasonable time period under current conditions. Changes in market prices and management estimates directly affect the estimated fair value of these contracts. Accordingly, it is reasonably
possible that such estimates may change in the near term.        Property, Plant and Equipment   Property, plant and equipment are recorded
at original cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The costs of maintenance and repairs, which are not significant improvements, are expensed when incurred.      Asset retirement obligations associated with tangible long-lived assets are recorded at fair value in the period in which they are incurred, if a reasonable
estimate of fair value can be made, and added to the carrying amount of the associated asset. This additional carrying amount is then depreciated over the life of the asset. The liability increases due to the passage of time based on the time value
of money until the obligation is settled. We recognize a liability for conditional asset retirement obligations as soon as the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. A conditional asset retirement obligation is defined as an
unconditional legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity.        Impairment of Unconsolidated Affiliates   We evaluate our unconsolidated affiliates for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate, in management s judgment, that the carrying value of such investments may have experienced an other than temporary decline in value. When evidence of loss in value has occurred, management compares the estimated fair value of the
investment to the carrying value of the investment to determine whether any impairment has occurred. Management assesses the fair value of our unconsolidated affiliates using commonly accepted techniques, and may use more than one method, including,
but not limited to, recent third party comparable sales, internally developed discounted cash flow analysis and analysis from outside advisors. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value and management considers the decline in value
to be other than temporary, the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized in the financial statements as an impairment loss.        Intangible Assets   Intangible assets consist of goodwill, and commodity sales and purchases contracts. Goodwill is the cost of an acquisition less the fair value of the net assets of the acquired business. Commodity sales
and purchases contracts are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract, ranging from one to 25 years.      We evaluate goodwill for
impairment annually in the third quarter, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Impairment testing of goodwill consists of a
two-step process. The first step involves comparing the fair value of the reporting unit, to which goodwill has been allocated, with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the
process involves comparing the fair value and carrying value of the goodwill of that reporting unit. If the carrying value of the goodwill of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount
equal to the excess.         
   F-8   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005               Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations   We evaluate whether the carrying value of long-lived assets,
excluding goodwill, has been impaired when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The carrying amount is not recoverable if it exceeds the undiscounted sum of cash flows expected to result from the use and
eventual disposition of the asset. We consider various factors when determining if these assets should be evaluated for impairment, including but not limited to:   

A significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate;      

A current period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses, or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses
associated with the use of a long-lived asset;      

An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset;      

Significant adverse changes in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or in its physical condition;      

A significant adverse change in the market value of an asset; and      

A current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its estimated useful life.         If the carrying value is not recoverable, the impairment loss is measured as the excess of the asset s carrying value over its fair value. Management assesses
the fair value of long-lived assets using commonly accepted techniques, and may use more than one method, including, but not limited to, recent third party comparable sales, internally developed discounted cash flow analysis and analysis from
outside advisors. Significant changes in market conditions resulting from events such as the condition of an asset or a change in management s intent to utilize the asset would generally require management to reassess the cash flows related to
the long-lived assets.      We use the criteria in SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, 
 or SFAS 144, to determine when an asset is classified as held for sale. Upon classification as held for sale, the long-lived asset is measured at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, depreciation is ceased and the
asset is separately presented on the consolidated balance sheets.      If an asset held for sale or sold (1) has clearly distinguishable operations
and cash flows, generally at the plant level, (2) has direct cash flows of the held for sale or sold component that will be eliminated (from the perspective of the held for sale or sold component), and (3) if we are unable to exert
significant influence over the disposed component, then the related results of operations for the current and prior periods, including any related impairments and gains or losses on sales are reflected as income from discontinued operations in the
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. If an asset held for sale or sold does not have clearly distinguishable operations and cash flows, impairments and gains or losses on sales are recorded as gain on sale of assets in the
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.        Unamortized Debt Premium, Discount and Expense   Premiums, discounts
and expenses incurred with the issuance of long-term debt are amortized over the terms of the debt using the effective interest method. These premiums and discounts are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets as an offset to long-term debt.
These expenses are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets as other non-current assets.        Distributions     Under the terms
of the LLC Agreement, we are required to make quarterly distributions to Spectra Energy and ConocoPhillips based on allocated taxable income. The LLC Agreement provides for taxable income to be allocated in accordance with Internal Revenue Code
Section 704(c). This Code Section accounts for the variation between the adjusted tax basis and the fair market value of assets contributed to the joint venture. The distribution is based on the highest taxable income allocated to either member
with a minimum of each members  tax, with the other member receiving a proportionate amount to maintain the ownership capital accounts at 50% for both Spectra Energy and ConocoPhillips. Prior to January 2, 2007, the capital accounts were
maintained at 50% for both Duke Energy and ConocoPhillips, and prior to July 1, 2005, the capital accounts were maintained at 69.7% for Duke Energy and 30.3% for ConocoPhillips. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we paid
distributions of $650 million and $389 million, respectively, based on estimated annual taxable income allocated to the members according to their respective ownership percentages at the date the distributions became due.      Our board of directors determines the amount of the quarterly dividend to be paid to Spectra Energy (or Duke Energy prior to January 2, 2007) and
ConocoPhillips, by considering net income, cash flow or any other criteria deemed appropriate. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we paid total dividends of $801 million and $1,925 million, respectively. The $1,925 million paid
during the year ended December 31, 2005, is comprised of a disproportionate cash distribution of approximately $1,100 million to Duke Energy  
       
   F-9   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005            
 using the proceeds from the sale of our general partner interest in TEPPCO as part of the 50-50 Transaction, a $245 million proportionate distribution to Duke Energy
and ConocoPhillips as part of the 50-50 Transaction, and $580 million in proportionate distributions to Duke Energy and ConocoPhillips, which were allocated in accordance with our partners  respective ownership percentages. The $801 million
paid during the year ended December 31, 2006, is comprised of proportionate distributions to Duke Energy and ConocoPhillips, which were allocated in accordance with our partners  respective ownership percentages. The LLC Agreement
restricts payment of dividends except with the approval of both members.      DCP Partners considers the payment of a quarterly distribution to the
holders of its common units and subordinated units, to the extent DCP Partners has sufficient cash from its operations after establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to its general partner, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of ours. There is no guarantee, however, that DCP Partners will pay the minimum quarterly distribution on the units in any quarter. DCP Partners will be prohibited from making any distributions to unitholders if it would cause an event of
default, or an event of default exists, under its credit agreement. Our 41% limited partner interest in DCP Partners primarily consists of subordinated units. The subordinated units are entitled to receive the minimum quarterly distribution only
after DCP Partners  common unitholders have received the minimum quarterly distribution plus any arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution from prior quarters. The subordination period will end on December 31, 2010 if
certain distribution tests are met and earlier if certain more stringent tests are met. At such time that the subordination period ends, the subordinated units will be converted to common units. During the year ended December 31, 2006, DCP
Partners paid distributions of approximately $13 million to its public unitholders. We hold general partner incentive distribution rights, which entitle us to receive an increasing share of available cash when pre-defined distribution targets are
achieved.        Foreign Currency Translation   We translated assets and liabilities of our Canadian operations, where the Canadian dollar
was the functional currency, at the period-end exchange rates. Revenues and expenses were translated using average monthly exchange rates during the period, which approximates the exchange rates at the time of each transaction during the period.
Foreign currency translation adjustments are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. In July 2005, as part of the 50-50 Transaction, we distributed to Duke Energy substantially all of our Canadian business. As a result,
there were no translation gains or losses in AOCI at December 31, 2006 and 2005.        Revenue Recognition   We generate the majority
of our revenues from natural gas gathering, processing, compression, transportation and storage, and natural gas liquid, or NGL, fractionation, transportation, gathering, treating, processing and storage, as well as trading and marketing of natural
gas and NGLs.      We obtain access to raw natural gas and provide our midstream natural gas services principally under contracts that contain a
combination of one or more of the following arrangements.  

Fee-based arrangements  Under fee-based arrangements, we receive a fee or fees for one or more of the following services: gathering, compressing, treating,
processing, or transporting of natural gas. Our fee-based arrangements include natural gas purchase arrangements pursuant to which we purchase raw natural gas at the wellhead, or other receipt points, at an index related price at the delivery point
less a specified amount, generally the same as the fees we would otherwise charge for gathering of raw natural gas from the wellhead location to the delivery point. The revenue we earn is directly related to the volume of natural gas that flows
through our systems and is not directly dependent on commodity prices. To the extent a sustained decline in commodity prices results in a decline in volumes, however, our revenues from these arrangements would be reduced.

Percent-of-proceeds/index arrangements  Under percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas from producers at the wellhead, gather
the wellhead natural gas through our gathering system, treat and process the natural gas, and then sell the resulting residue natural gas and NGLs at index prices based on published index market prices. We remit to the producers either an
agreed-upon percentage of the actual proceeds that we receive from our sales of the residue natural gas and NGLs, or an agreed-upon percentage of the proceeds based on index related prices for the natural gas and the NGLs, regardless of the actual
amount of the sales proceeds we receive. Under these types of arrangements, our revenues correlate directly with the price of natural gas and NGLs.      

Keep-whole arrangements  Under the terms of a keep-whole processing contract, we gather raw natural gas from the producer for processing, market the NGLs and
return to the producer residue natural gas with a Btu content equivalent to the Btu content of the raw natural gas gathered. This arrangement keeps the producer whole to the thermal value of the raw natural gas received. Under these types of
contracts, we are exposed to the  frac spread.  The frac spread is the difference between the value of the NGLs extracted from processing and the value of the Btu equivalent of the residue natural gas. We benefit in periods when NGL prices
are higher relative to natural gas prices.            
   F-10   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             Our trading and marketing of natural gas and NGLs, consists of physical purchases and sales, as well as derivative instruments.      We recognize revenue for sales and services under the four revenue recognition criteria, as follows:       Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists  Our customary practice is to enter into a written contract, executed by both us and the customer.
      Delivery  Delivery is deemed to have occurred at the time custody is transferred, or in the case of fee-based arrangements, when the
services are rendered. To the extent we retain product as inventory, delivery occurs when the inventory is subsequently sold and custody is transferred to the third party purchaser.       The fee is fixed or determinable  We negotiate the fee for our services at the outset of our fee-based arrangements. In these arrangements, the fees are
nonrefundable. For other arrangements, the amount of revenue, based on contractual terms, is determinable when the sale of the applicable product has been completed upon delivery and transfer of custody.       Collectability is probable  Collectability is evaluated on a customer-by-customer basis. New and existing customers are subject to a credit review
process, which evaluates the customers  financial position (for example, cash position and credit rating) and their ability to pay. If collectability is not considered probable at the outset of an arrangement in accordance with our credit
review process, revenue is recognized when the fee is collected.      We generally report revenues gross in the consolidated statements of operations and
comprehensive income, as we typically act as the principal in these transactions, take custody of the product, and incur the risks and rewards of ownership. Effective April 1, 2006, any new or amended contracts for certain sales and purchases
of inventory with the same counterparty, when entered into in contemplation of one another, are reported net as one transaction. We recognize revenues for our NGL and residue gas derivative trading activities net in the consolidated statements of
operations and comprehensive income as trading and marketing gains (losses). These activities include mark-to-market gains and losses on energy trading contracts, and the financial or physical settlement of energy trading contracts.      Revenue for goods and services provided but not invoiced is estimated each month and recorded along with related purchases of goods and services used but not
invoiced. These estimates are generally based on estimated commodity prices, preliminary throughput measurements and allocations and contract data. There are no material differences between the actual amounts and the estimated amounts of revenues
and purchases recorded at December 31, 2006 and 2005.        Gas and NGL Imbalance Accounting   Quantities of natural gas or NGLs
over-delivered or under-delivered related to imbalance agreements with customers, producers or pipelines are recorded monthly as other receivables or other payables using current market prices or the weighted average prices of natural gas or NGLs at
the plant or system. These balances are settled with deliveries of natural gas or NGLs, or with cash. Included in the consolidated balance sheets as accounts receivable other as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 were imbalances totaling $45
million and $59 million, respectively. Included in the consolidated balance sheets as accounts payable other, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 were imbalances totaling $42 million at both periods.        Significant Customers   ConocoPhillips, an affiliated company, was a significant customer in both of the past two years. Sales to ConocoPhillips,
including its 50% owned equity method investment, ChevronPhillips Chemical Company LLC, or CP Chem, totaled approximately $2,677 million during 2006 and $2,513 million during 2005.        Environmental Expenditures   Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized as appropriate, depending upon the future economic benefit.
Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations, and that do not generate current or future revenue, are expensed. Liabilities for these expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis when environmental assessments
and/or clean-ups are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Environmental liabilities as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, included in the consolidated balance sheets, totaled $6 million for both periods recorded as other current
liabilities, and totaled $6 million and $7 million, respectively, recorded as other long-term liabilities.        Stock-Based
Compensation   Under our 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, or 2006 Plan, equity instruments may be granted to our key employees. The 2006 Plan provides for the grant of Relative Performance Units, or RPU s, Strategic Performance Units,
or SPU s, and Phantom Units. Prior to January 2, 2007, each of the above units constitutes a notional unit equal to the weighted average fair value of a common share or unit of ConocoPhillips, Duke Energy and DCP Partners, weighted 45%,
45% and 10%, respectively. Upon the Spectra spin, the 45% weighting attributable to Duke Energy will be valued as one common share of Duke Energy and one-half of one common share of Spectra Energy. The 2006 Plan also provides for the grant of DCP
Partners  Phantom Units, which constitute a notional unit equal to the fair value of DCP Partners  common units. Each unit provides for the grant of dividend or distribution equivalent rights. The 2006 Plan is administered by the
compensation committee of our board of directors. We first granted awards under the 2006 Plan during the second quarter of 2006.         
   F-11   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             Under DCP Partners  Long Term Incentive Plan, or DCP Partners  Plan, equity instruments may be granted to DCP Partners  key employees. DCP Midstream
GP, LLC adopted the DCP Partners  Plan for employees, consultants and directors of DCP Midstream GP, LLC and its affiliates who perform services for DCP Partners. The DCP Partners  Plan provides for the grant of unvested units, phantom
units, unit options and substitute awards, and, with respect to unit options and phantom units, the grant of distribution equivalent rights. Subject to adjustment for certain events, an aggregate of 850,000 common units may be delivered pursuant to
awards under the DCP Partners  Plan. Awards that are canceled, forfeited or withheld to satisfy DCP Midstream GP, LLC s tax withholding obligations are available for delivery pursuant to other awards. The DCP Partners  Plan is
administered by the compensation committee of DCP Midstream GP, LLC s board of directors. DCP Partners first granted awards under this plan during the first quarter of 2006.      Through July 1, 2005, we accounted for stock-based compensation in accordance with the intrinsic value recognition and measurement principles of Accounting
Principles Board, or APB, Opinion No. 25, or APB 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,   and Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No. 44, or FIN 44,   Accounting for Certain
Transactions Involving Stock Compensation an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25.   Under that method, compensation expense was measured as the intrinsic value of an award at the measurement dates. The intrinsic value of an award
is the amount by which the quoted market price of the underlying stock exceeds the amount, if any, an employee would be required to pay to acquire the stock. Since the exercise price for all options granted under the plan was equal to the market
value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense has historically been recognized in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Compensation expense for phantom stock awards and
other stock awards was recorded from the date of grant over the required vesting period based on the market value of the awards at the date of grant. Compensation expense for stock-based performance awards was recorded over the required vesting
period, and adjusted for increases and decreases in market value at each reporting date up to the measurement dates.      Under its 1998 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, or 1998 Plan, Duke Energy granted certain of our key employees stock options, phantom stock awards, stock-based performance awards and other stock awards to be settled in shares of Duke Energy s common stock. Upon execution of
the 50-50 Transaction in July 2005, certain of our employees who had been issued awards under the 1998 Plan incurred a change in status from Duke Energy employees to non-employees. As a result, all outstanding stock-based awards were required to be
remeasured as of July 2005 under EITF Issue No. 96-18, or EITF 96-18,   Accounting for Equity Instruments That Are Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services,   using the fair
value method prescribed in SFAS No. 123,   Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,   or SFAS 123. Compensation expense is recognized prospectively beginning at the date of the change in status over the remaining vesting period
based on the fair value of each award at each reporting date. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the fair value of all other awards is determined based on the closing equity price at each
measurement date.      Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) (Revised 2004)   Share-Based
Payment,   or SFAS 123R, which establishes accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee and non-employee services. Accordingly, equity classified stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of
the award, and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. Liability classified stock-based compensation cost is remeasured at each reporting date, and is recognized over the requisite service period.      We elected to adopt the modified prospective application method as provided by SFAS 123R and, accordingly, financial statement amounts for the prior periods
presented in these consolidated financial statements have not been restated. Compensation expense for awards with graded vesting provisions is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of each separately vesting portion
of the award.      We recorded stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 as follows, the components of which
are further described in Note 13:   
       
   F-12   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             The following table shows what net income would have been if the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 had been applied to all stock-based compensation
awards for the year ended December 31, 2005.   

Year Ended December 31, 2005   

(millions)   

Net income, as reported   
      
  $  
  2,170  

Add: stock-based compensation expense included in reported net income   

3  

Deduct: total stock-based compensation expense determined under fair value-based method for all awards   

(3  
  )   

Pro forma net income   
      
  $  
  2,170  

Accounting for Sales of Units by a Subsidiary   In December 2005, we formed DCP Partners
through the contribution of certain assets and investments in unconsolidated affiliates in exchange for common units, subordinated units and a 2% general partner interest. Concurrent with the formation, we sold approximately 58% of DCP Partners to
the public, through an initial public offering, for proceeds of approximately $206 million, net of offering costs. We account for sales of units by a subsidiary under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 51, or SAB 51,   Accounting for Sales of
Stock of a Subsidiary.   Under SAB 51, companies may elect, via an accounting policy decision, to record a gain or loss on the sale of common equity of a subsidiary equal to the amount of proceeds received in excess of the carrying value of
the units sold. Under SAB 51, a gain on the sale of subsidiary equity cannot be recognized until multiple classes of outstanding securities convert to common equity. As a result, we have deferred approximately $150 million of gain on sale of common
units in DCP Partners as other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We will recognize this gain in earnings upon conversion of all of our subordinated units in DCP Partners to common units.        Income Taxes     We are structured as a limited liability company, which is a pass-through entity for U.S. income tax purposes. We own a
corporation that files its own federal, foreign and state corporate income tax returns. The income tax expense related to this corporation is included in our income tax expense, along with state, local, franchise and margin taxes of the limited
liability company and other subsidiaries. In addition, until July 1, 2005, we had Canadian subsidiaries that were subject to Canadian income taxes.      We follow the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
amounts and the tax basis of the assets and liabilities.        New Accounting Standards    SFAS No. 159     The Fair
Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115   ,  or SFAS 159.  In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159, which allows entities to choose, at specified election dates, to
measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. If a company elects the fair value option for an eligible item, changes in that item s fair value in subsequent
reporting periods must be recognized in current earnings. SFAS 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to draw comparison between entities that elect different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities.
SFAS 159 is effective for us on January 1, 2008. We have not assessed the impact of SFAS 159 on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.       SFAS No. 157     Fair Value Measurements,     or SFAS 157.  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, which provides a single
definition of fair value, together with a framework for measuring it, and requires additional disclosure about the use of fair value to measure assets and liabilities. SFAS 157 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an
entity-specific measurement, and sets out a fair value hierarchy with the highest priority being quoted prices in active markets. Under SFAS 157, fair value measurements are disclosed by level within that hierarchy. SFAS 157 will apply whenever
another standard requires (or permits) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. SFAS 157 does not expand the use of fair value to any new circumstances. SFAS 157 is effective for us on January 1, 2008. We have not assessed the impact
of SFAS 157 on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.       SFAS No. 154     Accounting Changes and
Error Corrections,     or SFAS 154.  In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20, or APB 20,   Accounting Changes   and SFAS No. 3,   Reporting Accounting Changes in
Interim Financial Statements.   Among other changes, SFAS 154 requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be applied retrospectively with all prior period financial statements presented under the new accounting principle, unless
it is impracticable to do so. SFAS 154 also (1) provides that a change in depreciation or amortization of a long-lived nonfinancial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate (prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting
principle, and (2) carries forward without change the guidance within APB 20 for reporting the correction of an error in previously issued financial statements and a change in accounting estimate. The adoption of SFAS 154 on January 1,
2006, did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.         
   F-13   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              FIN No. 48     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement 109,     or FIN 48 . In July
2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109,   Accounting for Income Taxes.   FIN 48 prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for us on January 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 is not expected to have a material impact on our combined results of operations, cash
flows or financial position.       EITF Issue No. 04-13     Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same
Counterparty,     or EITF 04-13.  In September 2005, the FASB ratified the EITF s consensus on Issue 04-13, which requires an entity to treat sales and purchases of inventory between the entity and the same counterparty as one
transaction for purposes of applying APB Opinion No. 29 when such transactions are entered into in contemplation of each other. When such transactions are legally contingent on each other, they are considered to have been entered into in
contemplation of each other. The EITF also agreed on other factors that should be considered in determining whether transactions have been entered into in contemplation of each other. EITF 04-13 was applied to new arrangements that we entered into
after March 31, 2006. The adoption of EITF 04-13 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.        Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements,    or SAB 108  In September 2006, the SEC
issued SAB 108 to address diversity in practice in quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires entities to quantify misstatements based on their impact on each of their financial statements and related disclosures. SAB
108 is effective as of the end of our 2006 fiscal year, allowing a one-time transitional cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of January 1, 2006 for errors that were not previously deemed material, but are material under the
guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of SAB 108 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.             2. Acquisitions and Dispositions         Acquisitions     
   Acquisition of Various Gathering, Transmission and Processing Assets  In the fourth quarter of 2005, we entered into an agreement to purchase certain
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, regulated pipeline and compressor station assets in Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas for approximately $50 million. We did not receive regulatory approval from the FERC to purchase the assets as
non-jurisdictional gathering, but we are proceeding to file with the FERC for a certificate to operate these assets as intrastate pipeline. This acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2007.       Acquisition of Additional Equity Interests  In December 2006, we acquired an additional 33.33 % interest in Main Pass Oil Gathering Company, or Main
Pass, for approximately $30 million. We now own 66.67% of Main Pass with one other partner. Main Pass is a joint venture whose primary operation is a crude oil gathering pipeline system in the Gulf of Mexico.      In November 2006, we purchased the remaining 16% minority interest in Dauphin Island Gathering Partners, or DIGP, for $7 million. DIGP was owned 84% by us
prior to this transaction, and subsequent to this transaction, is owned 100% by us. DIGP owns gathering and transmission assets in the Gulf Coast.      In December 2005, we purchased an additional 6.67% interest in Discovery Producer Services, LLC, or Discovery, from Williams Energy, LLC for a purchase price of $13 million. Discovery is an unconsolidated affiliate, which, prior to this
transaction, was 33.33% owned by us, and subsequent to this transaction is 40% owned by us. Discovery owns and operates an interstate pipeline, a condensate handling facility, a cryogenic gas processing plant and other gathering assets in deepwater
offshore Louisiana.              Dispositions         Disposition of Various Gathering, Transmission and Processing Assets  In December 2005, based upon management s assessment of the probable
disposition of certain plant, gathering and transmission assets, we classified certain of these assets as held for sale, recorded in other non-current assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment totaling $58 million at
December 31, 2005. Assets at one location, totaling $48 million as of December 31, 2005, were sold in the first quarter of 2006 for $76 million and we recognized a gain of $28 million. Assets at another location, totaling $9 million as of
December 31, 2005, were sold in the first quarter of 2006 for $9 million and we recognized no gain or loss.         
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             In August 2005, we sold certain gas gathering facilities in Kansas and Oklahoma for a sales price of approximately $11 million. No gain or loss was recognized.
     In February 2005, we exchanged certain processing plant assets in Wyoming for certain gathering assets and related gathering contracts in Oklahoma of
equivalent fair value.      In February 2005, we sold certain gathering, compression, fractionation, processing plant and transportation assets in Wyoming
for approximately $28 million.       Disposition of Equity Interests  In February 2005, we sold our general partner interest in TEPPCO to
Enterprise GP Holdings L.P., an unrelated third party, for $1,100 million in cash and recognized a gain of $1,137 million. The cash proceeds from this transaction were received in February 2005 and loaned to Duke Energy and ConocoPhillips in amounts
equal to their ownership percentages in the Company at that time. The loans were made under the terms of revolving credit facilities established in February 2005 with Duke Capital LLC, an affiliate of Duke Energy, and ConocoPhillips in the amounts
of $767 million and $333 million, respectively. ConocoPhillips repaid its outstanding borrowings in full in March 2005. Duke Capital, LLC repaid its outstanding borrowings in full in July 2005.       Distribution of Canadian Business to Duke Energy  In July 2005, as part of the 50-50 Transaction, we distributed to Duke Energy substantially all of our
Canadian business. These assets comprised a component of the Company for purposes of reporting discontinued operations. The results of operations and cash flows related to these assets have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all
periods presented. The following is a summary of the net assets distributed to Duke Energy on the closing date of July 1, 2005 (millions):   

Assets:   

Cash   
      
  $  
  44   
 
    Accounts receivable   

18   
 
    Other assets   

1   
 
    Property, plant and equipment, net   

291   
 
    Goodwill   

18   

Total assets   
      
  $  
  372   

Liabilities:   

Accounts payable   
      
  $  
  11   
 
    Other current liabilities   

4   
 
    Current and long-term debt   

1   
 
    Deferred income taxes   

20   
 
    Other long-term liabilities   

12   

Total liabilities   
      
  $  
  48   

Net assets of Canadian business distributed to Duke Energy   
      
  $  
  324   

We routinely sell assets that comprise a component of the Company, and are recorded as discontinued
operations, but are not individually significant. The results of operations and cash flows related to these assets have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.      There were no assets accounted for as discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. The following table sets forth selected financial
information associated with assets accounted for as discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005:   

2005   

(millions)   

Operating revenues   
      
  $  
  35  

Pre-tax operating income   
      
  $  
  4  

Income tax expense   

(1  
  )   

Income from discontinued operations   
      
  $  
  3  

F-15   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              3. Agreements and Transactions with Affiliates       The following table
represents the unrealized gains and unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments with affiliates as of December 31:   

2006   
      
   2005   

(millions)   

Duke Energy:   

Unrealized gains on mark-to-market and hedging instruments current   
      
  $  

$  
  18  

Unrealized gains on mark-to-market and hedging instruments non-current   
      
  $  

$  
  19  

Unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments current   
      
  $  

$  
  (20  
  )   
 
    Unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments non-current   
      
  $  

$  
  (20  
  )   
 
    ConocoPhillips:   

Unrealized gains on mark-to-market and hedging instruments current   
      
  $  
  1  
      
  $  
  9  

Unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments current   
      
  $  

$  
  (4  
  )   
    The following table summarizes the transactions with Duke Energy, ConocoPhillips, and other unconsolidated
affiliates as described below for the years ended December 31:   

2006   
      
   2005    

(millions)    
 
    Duke Energy:   

Sales of natural gas and petroleum products to affiliates   
      
  $  
  41  
      
  $  
  109   
 
    Transportation, storage and processing   
      
  $  
  18  
      
  $  
  2   
 
    Purchases of natural gas and petroleum products from affiliates   
      
  $  
  137  
      
  $  
  130   
 
    Operating and general and administrative expenses   
      
  $  
  30  
      
  $  
  44   
 
    Interest income   
      
  $  

$  
  8   
 
    ConocoPhillips (a) :   

Sales of natural gas and petroleum products to affiliates   
      
  $  
  2,677  
      
  $  
  2,513   
 
    Transportation, storage and processing   
      
  $  
  12  
      
  $  
  11   
 
    Purchases of natural gas and petroleum products from affiliates   
      
  $  
  492  
      
  $  
  556   
 
    General and administrative expenses   
      
  $  
  5  
      
  $  

Unconsolidated affiliates:   

Sales of natural gas and petroleum products to affiliates   
      
  $  
  95  
      
  $  
  163   
 
    Transportation, storage and processing   
      
  $  
  20  
      
  $  
  20   
 
    Purchases of natural gas and petroleum products from affiliates   
      
  $  
  160  
      
  $  
  144   

(a)    
      Includes ConocoPhillips  50% owned equity method investment, CP Chem                 Spectra Energy and Duke Energy         Services Agreement  Under a services agreement, Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries provided us with various staff and support services,
including information technology products and services, payroll, employee benefits, property taxes, media relations, printing and records management. Additionally, we used other Duke Energy services subject to hourly rates, including legal,
insurance, internal audit, tax planning, human resources and security departments.      In connection with the Spectra spin, we will need to transfer
responsibility for all services previously provided to us by Duke Energy to our corporate operations, or transition these services either to Spectra or to third party service providers.      Included on the consolidated balance sheets in other non-current assets affiliates as of December 31, 2006, are insurance recovery receivables of $47
million, and included in accounts receivable affiliates as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, are other receivables of $8 million and $39 million, respectively, from an insurance provider that is a subsidiary of Duke Energy. During the years
ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we recorded hurricane related business interruption insurance recoveries of $1 million and $3 million, respectively, included in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income as sales of
natural gas and petroleum products.      In the fourth quarter of 2006, an insurance provider that is a subsidiary of Duke Energy agreed to settle an
insurance claim, related to a damaged underground storage facility, for approximately $21 million. We had recorded a receivable in 2005 related to this claim for approximately $4 million. Upon receipt of the cash in December 2006, we relieved the
receivable and recorded business interruption insurance recoveries of approximately $16 million, included in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income as transportation, storage and processing.         
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              Commodity Transactions  We sell a portion of our residue gas and NGLs to, purchase raw natural gas and other petroleum products from, and provide
gathering and transportation services to Duke Energy and Spectra Energy and their subsidiaries. Management anticipates continuing to purchase and sell these commodities and provide these services to Spectra Energy in the ordinary course of business.
             ConocoPhillips         Long-term NGLs Purchases Contract and Transactions    We sell a portion of our residue gas and NGLs to ConocoPhillips and CP Chem, a 50% equity
investment of ConocoPhillips (see Note 1). In addition, we purchase raw natural gas from ConocoPhillips. Under the NGL Output Purchase and Sale Agreement, or the CP Chem NGL Agreement, between us and CP Chem, CP Chem has the right to purchase at
index-based prices substantially all NGLs produced by our various processing plants located in the Mid-Continent and Permian Basin regions, and the Austin Chalk area, which include approximately 40% of our total NGL production. The CP Chem NGL
Agreement also grants CP Chem the right to purchase at index-based prices certain quantities of NGLs produced at processing plants that are acquired and/or constructed by us in the future in various counties in the Mid-Continent and Permian Basin
regions, and the Austin Chalk area. The primary term of the agreement is effective until January 1, 2015. We anticipate continuing to purchase and sell these commodities and provide these services to ConocoPhillips and CP Chem in the ordinary
course of business.              Transactions with other unconsolidated
affiliates        In February 2005, we sold our general partner interest in TEPPCO to Enterprise GP Holdings L.P., an unrelated third party, for
$1,100 million in cash and recognized a gain of $1,137 million. The cash proceeds from this transaction were received in February 2005 and loaned to Duke Energy and ConocoPhillips in amounts equal to their ownership percentages in the Company at
that time. The loans were made under the terms of revolving credit facilities established in February 2005 with Duke Capital LLC, an affiliate of Duke Energy, and ConocoPhillips in the amounts of $767 million and $333 million, respectively.
ConocoPhillips repaid their outstanding borrowings in full in March 2005. Duke Capital LLC repaid their outstanding borrowings in full in July 2005.      We sell a portion of our residue gas and NGLs to, purchase raw natural gas and other petroleum products from, and provide gathering and transportation services to, unconsolidated affiliates. We anticipate continuing to purchase and sell
these commodities and provide these services to unconsolidated affiliates in the ordinary course of business.              Estimates related to affiliates        Revenue for goods
and services provided but not invoiced to affiliates is estimated each month and recorded along with related purchases of goods and services used but not invoiced. These estimates are generally based on estimated commodity prices, preliminary
throughput measurements and allocations and contract data. Actual invoices for the current month are issued in the following month and differences from estimated amounts are recorded. There are no material differences from the actual amounts
invoiced subsequent to year end relating to estimated revenues and purchases recorded at December 31, 2006 and 2005.             4. Marketable Securities        Short-term and restricted
investments  At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $437 million and $627 million, respectively, of short-term investments. These instruments are classified as available-for-sale securities under SFAS 115 as management does not intend to
hold them to maturity nor are they bought and sold with the objective of generating profits on short-term differences in price. The carrying value of these instruments approximates their fair value as the interest rates re-set on a daily, weekly or
monthly basis.      In July 2005, ConocoPhillips contributed cash of $398 million to our Company. This cash was invested in financial instruments as
described above. Under the terms of the amended and restated LLC Agreement, however, proceeds from this contribution were designated for the acquisition or improvement of property, plant and equipment. As this cash was to be used to acquire
non-current assets, we had $0 and $264 million, respectively, classified as a long-term asset, as restricted investments, on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2006 and 2005. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had restricted
investments of $102 million and $100 million, respectively, consisting of collateral for DCP Partners  term loan.         
   F-17   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              5. Inventories       Inventories by category were as follows as of
December 31:   
           6. Property, Plant and Equipment
            Property, plant and equipment by classification was as follows as
of December 31:   
    Depreciation expense for 2006 and 2005 was $275 million and $278 million, respectively. Interest capitalized
on construction projects in 2006 and 2005, was approximately $3 million and $2 million, respectively. At December 31, 2006, we had non-cancelable purchase obligations of approximately $27 million for capital projects expected to be completed in
2007. In addition, property, plant and equipment includes $10 million and $13 million of non-cash additions for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.             7. Goodwill and Other Intangibles       The
changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are as follows for the years ended December 31:   
    We perform an annual goodwill impairment test, and update the test during interim periods if events or
circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We use a discounted cash flow analysis supported by market valuation multiples to perform the assessment. Key assumptions in the
analysis include the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and an estimated run rate of general and administrative costs. In estimating cash flows, we incorporate current market information, as well as historical and other
factors, into our forecasted commodity prices.      We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of August 31, 2006. We also tested goodwill
for impairment in July 2005 upon the distribution of substantially all of our Canadian business to Duke Energy, in conjunction with the 50-50 Transaction. These goodwill impairment tests were performed by comparing our reporting units 
estimated fair values to their carrying, or book, values. These valuations indicated our reporting units  fair values were in excess of their carrying, or book, values; therefore, we have determined that there is no indication of impairment.
There were no impairments of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.         
   F-18   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             During 2005, we recorded an adjustment to properly account for deferred taxes established as a result of purchase business combinations that occurred during 2001.
As a result of this adjustment, goodwill and deferred income tax liabilities decreased by approximately $11 million and $3 million, respectively, and property, plant and equipment, net, increased by $8 million.      In July 2005, as part of the 50-50 Transaction, we distributed to Duke Energy substantially all of our Canadian business. Included in the distribution was $18
million of goodwill, which was determined based on the relative fair value of the Canadian business to the fair value of the Natural Gas Services reporting unit.      The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization for commodity sales and purchases contracts are as follows for the years ended December 31:   
    During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we recorded amortization expense associated with
commodity sales and purchases contracts of $9 million. The remaining amortization periods for these intangibles range from less than one year to 20 years with a weighted average remaining period of approximately 7 years.      Estimated amortization for these contracts for the next five years and thereafter is as follows:   
           8. Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates
      We have investments in the following unconsolidated affiliates accounted for using the equity method:   
     Discovery Producer Services LLC  Discovery Producer Services LLC, or Discovery, owns and operates
a 600 MMcf/d interstate pipeline, a condensate handling facility, a cryogenic gas processing plant, and other gathering assets in deepwater offshore Louisiana. In December 2005, we acquired an additional 6.67% interest in Discovery from Williams
Energy, LLC for a purchase price of $13 million, bringing our total ownership to 40%. The deficit between the carrying amount of the investment and the underlying equity of Discovery of $49 million at December 31, 2006, is associated with, and
is being depreciated over the life of, the underlying long-lived assets of Discovery.         
   F-19   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              Main Pass Oil Gathering Company  In December 2006, we acquired an additional 33.33% interest in Main Pass, a joint venture whose primary operation is a
crude oil gathering pipeline system in the Main Pass East and Viosca Knoll Block areas in the Gulf of Mexico. We now own 66.67% of Main Pass with one other partner. Since Main Pass is not a variable interest entity, and we do not have the ability to
exercise control, we continue to account for Main Pass under the equity method. The excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the underlying equity of Main Pass of $12 million at December 31, 2006, is associated with, and is being
depreciated over the life of, the underlying long-lived assets of Main Pass.       Sycamore Gas System General Partnership  Sycamore Gas System
General Partnership, or Sycamore, is a partnership formed for the purpose of constructing, owning and operating a gas gathering and compression system in Carter County, Oklahoma. The excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the
underlying equity of Sycamore of $9 million at December 31, 2006, is associated with, and is being depreciated over the life of, the underlying long-lived assets of Sycamore.       Mont Belvieu I  Mont Belvieu I owns a 150 MBbl/d fractionation facility in the Mont Belvieu, Texas Market Center. The deficit between the carrying amount
of the investment and the underlying equity of Mont Belvieu I of $11 million at December 31, 2006, is associated with, and is being depreciated over the life of, the underlying long-lived assets of Mont Belvieu I.       Tri-States NGL Pipeline, LLC  Tri-States NGL Pipeline, LLC, or Tri-States, owns 169 miles of NGL pipeline, extending from a point near Mobile Bay,
Alabama to a point near Kenner, Louisiana. The deficit between the carrying amount of the investment and the underlying equity of Tri-States of $3 million at December 31, 2006, is associated with, and is being depreciated over the life of, the
underlying long-lived assets of Tri-States. We own less than 20% interest in this Partnership, however, we exercise significant influence, therefore, this investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting in accordance with APB
Opinion No. 18,   The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.         Black Lake Pipe Line
Company  Black Lake Pipe Line Company, or Black Lake, owns a 317 mile long NGL pipeline, with a current capacity of approximately 40 MBbl/d. The pipeline receives NGLs from a number of gas plants in Louisiana and Texas. The NGLs are
transported to Mont Belvieu fractionators. The deficit between the carrying amount of the investment and the underlying equity of Black Lake of $7 million at December 31, 2006, is associated with, and is being depreciated over the life of, the
underlying long-lived assets of Black Lake.       Fox Plant, LLC  In May 2006, we purchased the remaining 50% interest in Fox Plant, LLC, a
limited liability company formed for the purpose of constructing, owning, and operating a gathering facility and gas processing plant in Carter County, Oklahoma. Subsequent to May 2006, Fox Plant, LLC was accounted for as a consolidated subsidiary.
Fox Plant, LLC is included in other unconsolidated affiliates in the above table as of December 31, 2005.       TEPPCO Partners, L.P.  In
February 2005, we sold our general partner interest in TEPPCO to Enterprise GP Holdings L.P., an unrelated third party, for $1,100 million in cash and recognized a gain of $1,137 million.      Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates amounted to the following for the years ended December 31:   

2006   

2005   

(millions)   

Discovery Producer Services LLC   
      
  $  
  17  

$  
  11  

Main Pass Oil Gathering Company   

3  

3  

Sycamore Gas System General Partnership   

(1  
  )  

(1  
  )   
 
    Mont Belvieu I   

(1  
  )  

(1  
  )   
 
    Tri-States NGL Pipeline, LLC   

1  

1  

Black Lake Pipe Line Company   

TEPPCO Partners, L.P.   

8  

Other unconsolidated affiliates   

1  

1  

Total equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates   
      
  $  
  20  

$  
  22  

F-20   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             The following summarizes combined financial information of unconsolidated affiliates for the years ended and as of December 31:   
           9. Estimated Fair Value of Financial
Instruments       We have determined the following fair value amounts using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies.
Considerable judgment is required, however, in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that we could realize in a current market
exchange. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methods may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.   
    The fair value of short-term investments, restricted investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable
are not materially different from their carrying amounts because of the short-term nature of these instruments or the stated rates approximating market rates. Unrealized gains and unrealized losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments are
carried at fair value.      The estimated fair values of current debt, including current maturities of long-term debt, and long-term debt, with the
exception of DCP Partners  long-term debt, are determined by prices obtained from market quotes. The carrying value of DCP Partners  long-term debt approximates fair value, as the interest rate is variable and reflects current market
conditions.             10. Asset Retirement Obligations       Our asset retirement obligations relate primarily to the retirement of various gathering pipelines and processing facilities, obligations related to right-of-way
easement agreements, and contractual leases for land use. We recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The fair value of the
liability is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset. This additional carrying amount is then depreciated over the life of the asset. The liability increases due to the passage of time based on the time value of money until the
obligation is settled.      We identified various assets as having an indeterminate life, for which there is no requirement to establish a fair value for
future retirement obligations associated with such assets. These assets include certain pipelines, gathering systems and processing facilities. A liability for these asset retirement obligations will be recorded only if and when a future retirement
obligation with a determinable life is identified. These assets have an indeterminate life because they are owned and will operate for an indeterminate future period when properly maintained. Additionally, if the portion of an owned plant containing
asbestos were to be modified or dismantled, we would be legally required to remove the asbestos. We currently have no plans to take actions that would require the removal of the asbestos in these assets. Accordingly, the fair value of the asset
retirement obligation related to this asbestos cannot be estimated and no obligation has been recorded.         
   F-21   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             The asset retirement obligation is adjusted each quarter for any liabilities incurred or settled during the period, accretion expense and any revisions made to the
estimated cash flows. The following table summarizes changes in the asset retirement obligation, included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, for the years ended December 31:   
           11. Financing       Long-term debt was as follows at December 31:   
     (a)  See Note 12 for
further discussion.       Debt Securities  In October 2006, we issued $300 million principal amount of 6.45% Senior Notes due 2036, or the 6.45%
Notes, for proceeds of approximately $297 million (net of related offering costs). The 6.45% Notes mature and become due and payable on November 3, 2036. We will pay interest semiannually on May 3 and November 3 of each year,
commencing May 3, 2007. The proceeds from this offering were used to repay our 5.75% Senior Notes that matured on November 15, 2006.      In
October 2005, we issued $200 million principal amount of 5.375% Senior Notes Due 2015, or 5.375% Notes, for proceeds of $197 million (net of related offering costs). The 5.375% Notes mature on October 15, 2015. We pay interest semiannually on
April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2006. The proceeds from this offering were used to repay the August 2005 term loan facility discussed below.      In August 2005, we repaid the $600 million 7.5% Notes that were due on August 16, 2005. We repaid a portion of this debt with available cash and proceeds from
the issuance of commercial paper, and refinanced a portion of this debt with the August 2005 term loan facility discussed below.      The debt securities
mature and become payable on the respective due dates, and are not subject to any sinking fund provisions. Interest is payable semiannually. The debt securities are unsecured and are redeemable at our option.         
   F-22   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              Credit Facilities with Financial Institutions  On April 29, 2005, we entered into a credit facility, or the Facility, to replace a $250 million
364-day facility that was terminated on April 29, 2005. The Facility is used to support our commercial paper program, and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. In December 2005, we amended the Facility to amend the
definition of consolidated capitalization to include minority interest, which is referred to in these financial statements as non-controlling interest. In October 2006, we amended the Facility to modify the change of control provisions to allow for
the Spectra spin, to extend the maturity April 29, 2012, to amend the pricing, to remove the interest coverage covenant and to incorporate other minor revisions. Any outstanding borrowings under the Facility at maturity may, at our option, be
converted to an unsecured one-year term loan. The Facility is a $450 million revolving credit facility, all of which can be used for letters of credit. The Facility requires us to maintain at all times a debt to total capitalization ratio of less
than or equal to 60%. Draws on the Facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at our option and based on our current debt rating, either (1) LIBOR plus 0.35% per year for the initial 50% usage or LIBOR plus 0.45% per year if usage is
greater than 50% or (2) the higher of (a) the Wachovia Bank prime rate per year and (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.5% per year. The Facility incurs an annual facility fee of 0.1% based on our credit rating on the drawn and
undrawn portions. As of December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings or commercial paper outstanding, and there was approximately $5 million in letters of credit drawn against the Facility. As of December 31, 2005, there were no borrowings
or commercial paper outstanding, and there were no letters of credit drawn against the Facility.      In August 2005, we entered into a credit agreement,
or the Term Loan Facility, where we made a one-time request to borrow $200 million in the form of a term loan. We used this Term Loan Facility to repay a portion of our $600 million 7.5% Notes that matured on August 16, 2005. The Term Loan
Facility was repaid in October 2005 with proceeds from the 5.375% Notes.      On December 7, 2005, DCP Partners entered into a 5-year credit
agreement, or the DCP Partners  Credit Agreement, with a $250 million revolving credit facility and a $100 million term loan facility. The DCP Partners  Credit Agreement matures on December 7, 2010. At December 31, 2006 and 2005,
there was $168 million and $110 million, respectively, outstanding on the revolving credit facility and $100 million outstanding on the term loan facility. The term loan facility is fully collateralized by investments in high-grade securities, which
are classified as restricted investments on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Outstanding letters of credit on the DCP Partners  Credit Agreement were less than $1 million as of December 31, 2006, and there were no letters of
credit outstanding at December 31, 2005. The DCP Partners  Credit Agreement requires DCP Partners to maintain at all times (commencing with the quarter ending March 31, 2006) a leverage ratio (the ratio of DCP Partners 
consolidated indebtedness to its consolidated EBITDA, in each case as is defined by the DCP Partners  Credit Agreement) of less than or equal to 4.75 to 1.0 (and on a temporary basis for not more than three consecutive quarters following the
acquisition of assets in the midstream energy business of not more than 5.25 to 1.0); and maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter an interest coverage ratio (defined to be the ratio of adjusted EBITDA, as defined by the DCP Partners  Credit
Agreement to be earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization and other non-cash adjustments, for the four most recent quarters to interest expense for the same period) of greater than or equal to 3.0 to 1.0. Indebtedness under
the revolving credit facility bears interest, at our option, at either (1) the higher of Wachovia Bank s prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50% or (2) LIBOR plus an applicable margin, which ranges from 0.27% to 1.025%
dependent upon the leverage level or credit rating. As of December 31, 2006, the $100 million term loan facility bears interest at LIBOR plus a rate per annum of 0.15%. The revolving credit facility incurs an annual facility fee of 0.08% to
0.35%, depending on the applicable leverage level or debt rating. This fee is paid on drawn and undrawn portions of the revolving credit facility.      Approximate future maturities of long-term debt in the year indicated are as follows at December 31, 2006:   
           12. Risk Management and Hedging Activities,
Credit Risk and Financial Instruments        Commodity price risk  Our principal operations of gathering, processing, compression,
transportation and storage of natural gas, and the accompanying operations of fractionation, transportation, gathering, treating, processing, storage and trading and marketing of NGLs create commodity price risk exposure due to market fluctuations
in commodity prices, primarily with respect to the prices of NGLs,  
       
   F-23   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005            
 natural gas and crude oil. As an owner and operator of natural gas processing and other midstream assets, we have an inherent exposure to market variables and
commodity price risk. The amount and type of price risk is dependent on the underlying natural gas contracts entered into to purchase and process raw natural gas. Risk is also dependent on the types and mechanisms for sales of natural gas and NGLs,
and related products produced, processed, transported or stored.       Energy trading (market) risk  Certain of our subsidiaries are engaged in
the business of trading energy related products and services, including managing purchase and sales portfolios, storage contracts and facilities, and transportation commitments for products. These energy trading operations are exposed to market
variables and commodity price risk with respect to these products and services, and we may enter into physical contracts and financial instruments with the objective of realizing a positive margin from the purchase and sale of commodity-based
instruments.       Interest rate risk  We enter into debt arrangements that have either fixed or floating rates, therefore we are exposed to
market risks related to changes in interest rates. We periodically use interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk associated with our debt. Our primary goals include (1) maintaining an appropriate ratio of fixed-rate debt to floating-rate
debt; (2) reducing volatility of earnings resulting from interest rate fluctuations; and (3) locking in attractive interest rates based on historical rates.       Credit risk  Our principal customers range from large, natural gas marketing services to industrial end-users for our natural gas products and services, as well as large multi-national petrochemical and refining
companies, to small regional propane distributors for our NGL products and services. Substantially all of our natural gas and NGL sales are made at market-based prices. Approximately 40% of our NGL production is committed to ConocoPhillips and CP
Chem under an existing 15-year contract, which expires in 2015. This concentration of credit risk may affect our overall credit risk, in that these customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other factors. Where
exposed to credit risk, we analyze the counterparties  financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establish credit limits and monitor the appropriateness of these limits on an ongoing basis. We may use master collateral agreements
to mitigate credit exposure. Collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit for exposure in excess of the established threshold. The threshold amount represents an open credit limit, determined in accordance with
our credit policy. The collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate a contract and liquidate all positions. In addition, our standard gas and NGL sales contracts contain adequate assurance
provisions, which allow us to suspend deliveries and cancel agreements, or continue deliveries to the buyer after the buyer provides security for payment in a satisfactory form.      As of December 31, 2006, we held cash or letters of credit of $83 million to secure future performance of financial or physical contracts, and had deposited
with counterparties $7 million of such collateral to secure our obligations to provide future services or to perform under financial contracts. Collateral amounts held or posted may be fixed or may vary, depending on the value of the underlying
contracts, and could cover normal purchases and sales, trading and hedging contracts. In many cases, we and our counterparties  publicly disclose credit ratings, which may impact the amounts of collateral requirements.      Physical forward contracts and financial derivatives are generally cash settled at the expiration of the contract term. These transactions are generally subject to
specific credit provisions within the contracts that would allow the seller, at its discretion, to suspend deliveries, cancel agreements or continue deliveries to the buyer after the buyer provides security for payment satisfactory to the seller.
      Commodity hedging strategies  Historically, we have used commodity cash flow hedges, as specifically defined in SFAS 133, to reduce the
potential negative impact that commodity price changes could have on our earnings and our ability to adequately plan for cash needed for debt service, capital expenditures and tax distributions. Our current strategy is to use cash flow hedges only
for commodity price risk related to DCP Partners  operations. Some of the assets operated by DCP Partners generate cash flows that are subject to volatility from fluctuating commodity prices. As a publicly traded master limited partnership, an
important component of the strategy of DCP Partners is to generate consistent cash flow from its operations in order to pay distributions to its unitholders. For operations other than those of DCP Partners, we do not currently anticipate using cash
flow hedges in the near future, because management believes cash flows will be sufficient to fund our business.       Commodity cash flow
hedges  We have executed a series of derivative financial instruments, which have been designated as cash flow hedges of the price risk associated with forecasted sales of natural gas, NGLs and condensate through 2010, and the price risk
associated with forecasted sales of condensate during 2011, related to assets of DCP Partners. Because of the strong correlation between NGL prices and crude oil prices, and the lack of liquidity in the NGL financial market, we have used crude oil
swaps to hedge NGL price risk.         
   F-24   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             For the year ended December 31, 2006, amounts recognized as comprehensive income in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for
changes in the fair value of these hedge instruments were gains of $4 million, and amounts recognized for the effects of any ineffectiveness were insignificant for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2005,
amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for changes in the fair value of these hedge instruments and for the effects of any ineffectiveness were not significant. During the year ended
December 31, 2006, we reclassified $1 million in net gains (net of minority interest of $2 million) to the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income as a result of settlements. No derivative gains or losses were
reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings as a result of a change in the probability of forecasted transactions occurring, which would cause us to discontinue hedge treatment. The deferred balance in AOCI was a gain of $3 million at
December 31, 2006, and was insignificant at December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006, $1 million of deferred net gains on derivative instruments in AOCI are expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next 12 months as the
hedged transactions impact earnings; however, due to the volatility of the commodities markets, the corresponding value in AOCI is subject to change prior to its reclassification into earnings.       Commodity fair value hedges  We use fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability (or an identified portion
thereof) that is attributable to fixed price risk. We may hedge producer price locks (fixed price gas purchases) and market locks (fixed price gas sales) to reduce our exposure to fixed price risk via swapping the fixed price risk for a floating
price position (New York Mercantile Exchange or index based).      For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the gains or losses representing
the ineffective portion of our fair value hedges were not significant. All components of each derivative s gain or loss are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness, unless otherwise noted. We did not have any firm commitments that no
longer qualified as fair value hedge items and, therefore, did not recognize an associated gain or loss.       Interest rate cash flow
hedges  During 2006, DCP Partners entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert $125 million of the indebtedness on their revolving credit facility to a fixed rate obligation, thereby reducing the exposure to market rate
fluctuations. All interest rate swaps expire on December 7, 2010 and re-price prospectively approximately every 90 days. The differences to be paid or received under the interest rate swap agreements are recognized as an adjustment to interest
expense. The interest rate swap agreements have been designated as cash flow hedges, and effectiveness is determined by matching the principal balance and terms with that of the specified obligation. The effective portions of changes in fair value
are recognized in AOCI in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. For the year ended December 31, 2006, amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for changes in the fair value of these hedge
instruments were not significant, and there was no ineffectiveness recorded for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, the gains deferred in AOCI related to these swaps were insignificant. At December 31, 2006, the
amount of deferred net gains on derivative instruments in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next 12 months as the hedged transactions occur are insignificant; however, due to the volatility of the interest rate
markets, the corresponding value in AOCI is subject to change prior to its reclassification into earnings.      Prior to issuing fixed rate debt in August
2000, we entered into, and terminated, treasury locks and interest rate swaps to lock in the interest rate prior to it being fixed at the time of debt issuance. The losses realized on these agreements, which were terminated in 2000, are deferred
into AOCI and amortized against interest expense over the life of the respective debt. The amount amortized to interest expense during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, was $1 million for both periods. The deferred balance was a loss
of $7 million and $8 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Approximately $1 million of deferred net losses related to these instruments in AOCI are expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next 12 months as the
underlying hedged interest expense transaction occurs.       Interest rate fair value hedges  In October 2001, we entered into an interest rate
swap to convert $250 million of fixed-rate debt securities, which were issued in August 2000, to floating rate debt. The interest rate fair value hedge was at a floating rate based on a six-month LIBOR, which was re-priced semiannually through the
date of maturity, August 2005.      In August 2003, we entered into two additional interest rate swaps to convert $100 million of fixed-rate debt
securities issued in August 2000 to floating rate debt. These interest rate fair value hedges are at a floating rate based on six-month LIBOR, which is re-priced semiannually through 2030. The swaps meet conditions, which permit the assumption of no
ineffectiveness, as defined by SFAS 133. As such, for the life of the swaps no ineffectiveness will be recognized. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair value of the interest rate swaps was a $4 million and $8 million asset, respectively,
which is included in the consolidated balance sheets as unrealized gains or losses on mark-to-market and hedging instruments with offsets to the underlying debt included in current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt.         
   F-25   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              Commodity derivatives trading and marketing  Our trading and marketing program is designed to realize margins related to fluctuations in commodity
prices and basis differentials, and to maximize the value of certain storage and transportation assets. Certain of our subsidiaries are engaged in the business of trading energy related products and services including managing purchase and sales
portfolios, storage contracts and facilities, and transportation commitments for products. These energy trading operations are exposed to market variables and commodity price risk with respect to these products and services, and may enter into
physical contracts and financial instruments with the objective of realizing a positive margin from the purchase and sale of commodity-based instruments. We manage our trading and marketing portfolio with strict policies, which limit exposure to
market risk, and require daily reporting to management of potential financial exposure. These policies include statistical risk tolerance limits using historical price movements to calculate daily value at risk.             13. Stock-Based Compensation         DCP Midstream, LLC Long-Term Incentive Plan, or 2006 Plan    Relative Performance Units  RPU s generally cliff vest at the end of
eight years, consisting of a three year performance period and a five year deferral period. The number of RPU s that will ultimately vest range from 0% to 200% of the outstanding RPU s, depending on the achievement of specified performance
targets over a three year period ending on December 31, 2008. The final performance payout is determined by the compensation committee of our board of directors. At the end of the performance period, based on the market value of the RPU s,
we will create an account for each grantee in our deferred compensation plan. Payment of the grantee s deferred compensation account will occur after a five year deferral period, the value of which is based on the value of the
participant s investment elections during the deferral period. Each RPU includes a dividend or distribution equivalent right, which will be paid in cash at the end of the performance period. Expense related to the RPUs for the year ended
December 31, 2006, was not significant. At December 31, 2006, there was approximately $1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the RPU s, which was calculated using an estimated forfeiture rate of 64%, and is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 7.0 years. The following tables presents information related to RPUs:   
     Strategic Performance Units  SPU s generally cliff vest at the end of three years. The number
of SPU s that will ultimately vest range from 0% to 150% of the outstanding SPU s, depending on the achievement of specified performance targets over a three year period ending on December 31, 2008. The final performance payout is
determined by the compensation committee of our board of directors. Each SPU includes a dividend or distribution equivalent right, which will be paid in cash at the end of the performance period. Expense related to the SPUs for the year ended
December 31, 2006, was approximately $1 million. At December 31, 2006 there was approximately $3 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the SPU s, which was calculated using estimated forfeiture rates ranging from 12%
to 32%, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. The following tables presents information related to SPUs:   
       
   F-26   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             The estimate of RPU s and SPU s that are expected to vest is based on highly subjective assumptions that could potentially change over time, including the
expected forfeiture rate and achievement of performance targets. Therefore the amounts of unrecognized compensation expense noted above does not necessarily represent the value that will ultimately be realized in our consolidated statements of
operations and comprehensive income.       Phantom Units  Phantom Units generally cliff vest at the end of five years. Each Phantom Unit
includes a dividend or distribution equivalent right, which is paid quarterly in arrears. Expense related to the Phantom Units for the year ended December 31, 2006, was not significant. At December 31, 2006 there was approximately $1
million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the Phantom Units, which was calculated using an estimated forfeiture rate of 19%, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.0 years. The following table presents
information related to Phantom Units:   
     DCP Partners  Phantom Units  The DCP Partners  Phantom Units constitute a notional unit
equal to the fair value of a common unit of DCP Partners, which generally cliff vest at December 31, 2008. Each DCP Partners  Phantom Unit includes a distribution equivalent right, which is paid quarterly in arrears. Expense related to the
DCP Partners  Phantom Units for the year ended December 31, 2006, was not significant. At December 31, 2006 there was approximately $1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the DCP Partners  Phantom Units, which
was calculated using estimated forfeiture rates ranging from 12% to 32%, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. The following table presents information related to the DCP Partners  Phantom Units:
  
    During the year ended December 31, 2006, no awards under the 2006 Plan were forfeited, vested or
settled.         
   F-27   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005               DCP Partners  Long-Term Incentive Plan, or DCP Partners  Plan    Performance Units  Performance Units generally cliff vest at
the end of a three year performance period. The number of Performance Units that will ultimately vest range from 0% to 150% of the outstanding Performance Units, depending on the achievement of specified performance targets over a three year period
ending on December 31, 2008. The final performance percentage payout is determined by the compensation committee of DCP Partners  board of directors. Each Performance Unit includes a distribution equivalent right, which will be paid in
cash at the end of the performance period. Expense related to the Performance Units for the year ended December 31, 2006, was not significant. At December 31, 2006, there was approximately $1 million of unrecognized compensation expense
related to the Performance Units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. The following tables presents information related to the Performance Units:   
    The estimate of Performance Units that are expected to vest is based on highly subjective assumptions that
could potentially change over time, including the expected forfeiture rate and achievement of performance targets. Therefore the amount of unrecognized compensation expense noted above does not necessarily represent the value that will ultimately be
realized in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.       Phantom Units  Of the Phantom Units, 16,700 units will
vest upon the three year anniversary of the grant date and 8,000 units vest ratably over three years. Each Phantom Unit includes a distribution equivalent right which is paid quarterly in arrears. Expense related to the Phantom Units for the year
ended December 31, 2006, was not significant. At December 31, 2006, estimated unrecognized compensation expense related to the Phantom Units was not significant. The following tables presents information related to the Phantom Units:
  
    The estimate of Phantom Units that are expected to vest is based on highly subjective assumptions that could
potentially change over time, including the expected forfeiture rate. Therefore the amount of unrecognized compensation expense noted above does not necessarily represent the value that will ultimately be realized in our consolidated statements of
operations and comprehensive income.      All awards issued under the 2006 Plan and the DCP Partners  Plan are intended to be settled in cash upon
vesting. Compensation expense is recognized ratably over each vesting period, and will be remeasured quarterly for all awards outstanding until the units are vested. The fair value of all awards is determined based on the closing price of the
relevant underlying securities at each measurement date. During the year ended December 31, 2006, no awards were vested or settled.        Duke
Energy 1998 Plan     Under its 1998 Plan, Duke Energy granted certain of our key employees stock options, phantom stock awards, stock-based performance awards and other stock awards to be settled in shares of Duke Energy s
common stock. Upon execution of the 50-50 Transaction in July 2005, our employees incurred a change in status from Duke Energy employees to non-employees. As a result, we ceased accounting for these awards under APB 25 and FIN 44, and began
accounting for these awards in accordance with EITF 96-18, using the fair value method prescribed in SFAS 123. No awards have been and we do not expect to settle any awards granted under the 1998 Plan with cash.         
   F-28   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              Stock Options  Under the 1998 Plan, the exercise price of each option granted could not be less than the market price of Duke Energy s common stock
on the date of grant. Vesting periods range from immediate to four years with a maximum option term of 10 years. Effective July 1, 2005, these options were accounted for in accordance with EITF 96-18, using the fair value method prescribed in
SFAS 123. As a result, compensation expense subsequent to July 1, 2005, is recognized based on the change in the fair value of the stock options at each reporting date until vesting.      The following tables show information regarding options to purchase Duke Energy s common stock granted to our employees.   
    The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, was
approximately $3 million and $2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, all compensation expense related to these awards has been recognized.      There were no options granted during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005.       Stock-Based Performance Awards  Stock-based
performance awards outstanding under the 1998 Plan vest over three years if certain performance targets are achieved. Duke Energy awarded 160,910 shares during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no stock-based performance awards
granted during the year ended December 31, 2006.      The following table summarizes information about stock-based performance awards activity during
the year ended December 31, 2006:   
    As of December 31, 2006, the estimated unrecognized compensation expense related to these awards was
approximately $1 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of less than 1 year. No awards were granted, vested or canceled during the year ended December 31, 2006.       Phantom Stock Awards  Phantom stock awards outstanding under the 1998 Plan vest over periods from one to five years. Duke Energy awarded 128,850 shares
during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no phantom stock awards granted during the year ended December 31, 2006.         
   F-29   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             The following table summarizes information about phantom stock awards activity during the year ended December 31, 2006:   
    The total fair value of the phantom stock awards that vested during the year ended December 31, 2006 and
2005 was approximately $2 million and less than $1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the estimated unrecognized compensation expense related to these awards was approximately $1 million, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.7 years. No awards were granted or canceled during the year ended December 31, 2006.       Other Stock
Awards  Other stock awards outstanding under the 1998 Plan vest over periods from one to five years. Duke Energy granted 3,000 other stock awards during the year ended December 31, 2005. There were no other stock awards granted during
the year ended December 31, 2006.      The following table summarizes information about other stock awards activity during the year ended
December 31, 2006:   
    The total fair value of the other stock awards that vested during the years ended December 31, 2006 and
2005 was not significant. As of December 31, 2006, the estimated unrecognized compensation expense related to these awards was not significant, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of less than 1 year. No awards were
granted or canceled during the year ended December 31, 2006.             14. Benefits  
     All Company employees who are 18 years old and work at least 20 hours per week are eligible for participation in our 401(k) and retirement plan, to
which we contributed 4% of each eligible employee s qualified earnings, through December 31, 2006. Effective January 1, 2007, we began contributing a range of 4% to 7% of each eligible employee s qualified earnings, based on
years of service. Additionally, we match employees  contributions in the plan up to 6% of qualified earnings. During 2006 and 2005, we expensed plan contributions of $15 million.      We offer certain eligible executives the opportunity to participate in the DCP Midstream LP s Non-Qualified Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. This plan
allows participants to defer current compensation on a pre-tax basis and to receive tax deferred earnings on such contributions. The plan also has make-whole provisions for plan participants who may otherwise be limited in the amount that we can
contribute to the 401(k) plan on the participant s behalf. All amounts contributed to or earned by the plan s investments are held in a trust account for the benefit of the participants. The trust and the liability to the participants are
part of our general assets and liabilities, respectively.         
   F-30   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005              15. Income Taxes       We are structured as a limited liability company, which
is a pass-through entity for United States income tax purposes. We own a corporation that files its own federal, foreign and state corporate income tax returns. The income tax expense related to this corporation is included in our income tax
expense, along with state, local, franchise, and margin taxes of the limited liability company and other subsidiaries. In addition, until July 1, 2005, we had Canadian subsidiaries that were subject to Canadian income taxes. Taxes associated
with these subsidiaries have been reclassified to discontinued operations for year ended December 31, 2005.      In May 2006, the State of Texas
enacted a new margin-based franchise tax law that replaces the existing franchise tax. This new tax is commonly referred to as the Texas margin tax. Corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies, limited liability partnerships and
joint ventures are examples of the types of entities that are subject to the new tax.      As a result of the change in Texas franchise law, our tax
status in the state of Texas has changed from non-taxable to taxable. The tax is considered an income tax for purposes of adjustments to the deferred tax liability. The tax is determined by applying a tax rate to a base that considers both revenues
and expenses. The Texas margin tax becomes effective for franchise tax reports due on or after January 1, 2008. The 2008 tax will be based on revenues earned during the 2007 fiscal year.      The Texas margin tax is assessed at 1% of taxable margin apportioned to Texas. We have computed taxable margin as total revenue less cost of goods sold. Based on
information currently available, we recorded a deferred tax liability of $18 million in 2006. The deferred tax liability is recorded as non-current in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2006, and as a non-cash offset to income
tax expense in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2006.      Income tax expense
consists of the following for the years ended December 31:   
    Temporary differences for our gross deferred tax assets of $4 million primarily relate to basis differences
between property, plant and equipment, and investments in unconsolidated affiliates. Temporary differences for our gross deferred tax liabilities of $17 million primarily relate to basis differences between property, plant and equipment.   
  Our effective tax rate differs from statutory rates, primarily due to our being structured as a limited liability company, which is a pass-through entity for
United States income tax purposes, while being treated as a taxable entity in certain states.             16. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities        Litigation  The midstream industry has seen a number of class action lawsuits
involving royalty disputes, mismeasurement and mispayment allegations. Although the industry has seen these types of cases before, they were typically brought by a single plaintiff or small group of plaintiffs. A number of these cases are now being
brought as class actions. We are currently named as defendants in some of these cases. Management believes we have meritorious defenses to these cases and, therefore, will continue to defend them vigorously. These class actions, however, can be
costly and time consuming to defend. We are also a party to various legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business.      In December 2006, El Paso E P Company, L.P., or El Paso, filed a lawsuit against one of our subsidiaries, DCP Assets Holding, LP and an affiliate of DCP
Midstream GP, LP, in District Court, Harris County, Texas. The litigation stems from an ongoing commercial dispute involving DCP Midstream Partners  Minden processing plant that dates back to August 2000. El Paso claims damages, including
interest, in the amount of $6 million in the litigation, the bulk of which stems from audit claims under our commercial contract. It is not possible to predict whether we will incur any liability or to estimate the damages, if any, we might incur in
connection with this matter. Management does not believe the ultimate resolution of this issue will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.         
   F-31   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005             In November 2006, we received a demand associated with the alleged migration of acid gas from a storage formation into a third party producing formation. The
plaintiff seeks a broad array of remedies, including a purchase of the plaintiff s lease rights. We conducted an investigation using a geotechnical consulting firm and believe that acid gas is migrating from the storage formation into the
producing formation. We could be liable for damages related to the diminution in market value to the leases, if any, caused by the migration of the acid gas. At this time, it is not possible to predict the ultimate damages, if any, that we might
incur in connection with this matter.      Management currently believes that these matters, taken as a whole, and after consideration of amounts accrued,
insurance coverage and other indemnification arrangements, will not have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.       General Insurance  In 2005, we carried all of our insurance coverage with an affiliate of Duke Energy. Beginning in 2006, we elected to carry only
property and excess liability insurance coverage with an affiliate of Duke Energy and an affiliate of ConocoPhillips, however, effective August 2006, we no longer carry insurance coverage with an affiliate of Duke Energy. Our remaining insurance
coverage is with an affiliate of ConocoPhillips and a third party insurer. Our insurance coverage includes (1) commercial general public liability insurance for liabilities arising to third parties for bodily injury and property damage
resulting from our operations; (2) workers  compensation liability coverage to required statutory limits; (3) automobile liability insurance for all owned, non-owned and hired vehicles covering liabilities to third parties for bodily
injury and property damage, and (4) property insurance covering the replacement value of all real and personal property damage, including damages arising from boiler and machinery breakdowns, earthquake, flood damage and business
interruption/extra expense. All coverages are subject to certain deductibles, terms and conditions common for companies with similar types of operations. Property insurance deductibles are currently $1 million for onshore or non-hurricane related
incidents or up to $5 million per occurrence for hurricane related incidents. We also maintain excess liability insurance coverage above the established primary limits for commercial general liability and automobile liability insurance. Casualty
insurance deductibles are currently $1 million per occurrence. The cost of our general insurance coverages increased over the past year reflecting the adverse conditions of the insurance markets.      During the third quarter of 2004, certain assets, located in the Gulf Coast, were damaged as a result of hurricane Ivan. The resulting losses are expected to be
covered by insurance, subject to applicable deductibles for property and business interruption. Insurance recovery receivables related to hurricane Ivan included on the consolidated balance sheets in other non-current assets affiliates as of
December 31, 2006, are $25 million, and included in accounts receivable affiliates as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, are $3 million and $28 million, respectively, from an insurance provider that is a subsidiary of Duke Energy.
     During the third quarter of 2005, hurricanes Katrina and Rita forced us to temporarily shut down our operations at certain assets located in Alabama,
Louisiana, Texas and New Mexico, however, substantially all of our facilities have resumed pre-hurricane levels of capacity utilization. Several of our assets sustained property damage, including some of our operating equipment on a platform in the
Gulf of Mexico. A portion of the resulting lost revenues and property damages are covered by our insurance, subject to applicable deductibles. The financial impact of recent hurricanes has increased market rates for insurance coverage; however,
these increases did not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Insurance recovery receivables related to hurricane Katrina included on the consolidated balance sheets in other
non-current assets affiliates as of December 31, 2006 are $21 million, and included in accounts receivable affiliates as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, are $2 million and $5 million, respectively, from an insurance provider that
is a subsidiary of Duke Energy. Included in other non-current assets affiliates as of December 31, 2006, are insurance recovery receivables related to hurricane Rita of $1 million at December 31, 2006. The balance at December 31,
2005, was not significant. Based on recent negotiations, we have reclassified a portion of these hurricane insurance receivables as non-current at December 31, 2006.      During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we recorded business interruption insurance recoveries related to these hurricanes of $1 million and $3 million, respectively, in the consolidated statements of operations
and comprehensive income as sales of natural gas and petroleum products.       Environmental  The operation of pipelines, plants and other
facilities for gathering, transporting, processing, treating, or storing natural gas, NGLs and other products is subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations pertaining to health, safety and the environment. As an owner or operator of these
facilities, we must comply with United States laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels that relate to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management and disposal, and other environmental matters. The cost of planning,
designing, constructing and operating pipelines, plants, and other facilities must incorporate compliance with environmental laws and regulations and safety standards. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of
administrative, civil and potentially criminal enforcement measures, including citizen suits, which can include the assessment of monetary  
       
   F-32   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005            
 penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, the issuance of injunctions or restrictions on operation. Management believes that, based on currently known
information, compliance with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.      On July 20, 2006, the State of New Mexico Environment Department issued Compliance Orders to us that list air quality violations during the past five years at
three of our owned or operated facilities in New Mexico. The orders allege a number of violations related to excess emissions from January 2001 to date and further require us to install flares for smokeless operations and to use the flares only for
emergency purposes. The Compliance Orders seek a civil penalty but did not request a specific amount. We intend to contest these allegations. Management does not believe this will result in a material impact on our consolidated results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.       Other Commitments and Contingencies  We utilize assets under operating leases in several
areas of operations. Consolidated rental expense, including leases with no continuing commitment, amounted to $37 million and $36 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Rental expense for leases with escalation clauses is recognized on a straight
line basis over the initial lease term.      Minimum rental payments under our various operating leases in the year indicated are as follows at
December 31, 2006:         
           17. Guarantees and Indemnifications
      In September 2005, we signed a corporate guaranty, which was amended in December 2005 upon our purchase of an additional interest in the related
unconsolidated affiliate, pursuant to which we are the guarantor of a maximum of $10 million of construction obligations. The original guaranty was $22 million as of December 31, 2005, and was reduced by construction payments of $12 million
during the year ended December 31, 2006. The guaranty will expire upon completion and payment for construction of a pipeline expected to be completed during 2007. The fair value of this guarantee is not significant to our consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows.      We periodically enter into agreements for the acquisition or divestiture of assets. These agreements
contain indemnification provisions that may provide indemnity for environmental, tax, employment, outstanding litigation, breaches of representations, warranties and covenants, or other liabilities related to the assets being acquired or divested.
Claims may be made by third parties under these indemnification agreements for various periods of time depending on the nature of the claim. The effective periods on these indemnification provisions generally have terms of one to five years,
although some are longer. Our maximum potential exposure under these indemnification agreements can vary depending on the nature of the claim and the particular transaction. We are unable to estimate the total maximum potential amount of future
payments under indemnification agreements due to several factors, including uncertainty as to whether claims will be made under these indemnities. At both December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had a liability of approximately $1 million recorded for
known liabilities related to outstanding indemnification provisions.             18. Subsequent
Events       During the year ended December 31, 2007, we distributed $1,364 million to Spectra Energy and ConocoPhillips, and DCP Partners
distributed $44 million to its unitholders. On January 24, 2008, DCP Partners announced the declaration of a cash distribution of $0.57 per unit, payable on February 14, 2008, to unitholders of record on February 7, 2008.   
  In September 2007, we issued $450 million principal amount of 6.75% Senior Notes due 2037, or the 6.75% Notes, for proceeds of approximately $444 million (net of
related offering costs). The 6.75% Notes mature and become due and payable on September 15,  
       
   F-33   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005            
 2037. We will pay interest semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing March 15, 2008. The proceeds of this offering were used to
fund the Momentum Energy Group, Inc. or MEG, acquisition.      On August 29, 2007, we acquired the stock of MEG for approximately $635 million plus
closing adjustments of approximately $8 million. MEG owns assets in the Fort Worth, Piceance and Powder River producing basins. Concurrent with this transaction, DCP Partners acquired certain subsidiaries of MEG from us for $165 million plus closing
adjustments of approximately $10 million, subject to final closing adjustments. These subsidiaries of MEG own assets in the Piceance Basin, including a 70% operated interest in the 31-mile Collbran Valley Gas Gathering joint venture in western
Colorado, assets in the Powder River Basin, including the 1,324-mile Douglas gas gathering system, and other facilities in Wyoming. We ultimately funded our portion of this acquisition with the 6.75% Notes, as well as cash on hand. DCP Partners
financed this transaction with $120 million of revolver and term loan borrowings under DCP Partners  Amended Credit Agreement, the issuance of approximately $100 million of common units through a private placement (described in the next
sentence) with certain institutional inventors and cash on hand. In August 2007, DCP Partners sold 2,380,952 common limited partner units in a private placement, pursuant to a common unit purchase agreement with private owners of MEG or affiliates
of such owners, at $42.00 per unit, or approximately $100 million in the aggregate.      In July 2007, we contributed to DCP Partners a 25% limited
liability company interest in DCP East Texas Holdings, LLC, our 40% limited liability company interest in Discovery Producer Services LLC, and a derivative instrument, for aggregate consideration of $244 million in cash, including $1 million for net
working capital and other adjustments, $27 million in common units and $1 million in general partner equivalent units. We own the remaining 75% limited liability company interest in East Texas Holdings, LLC, while third parties still own the other
60% limited liability interest in Discovery Producer Services LLC. DCP Partners financed the cash portion of this transaction with borrowings under DCP Partners  existing credit agreement. We will continue to operate these assets and these
assets will continue to be included in our financial statements, along with DCP Partners.      In June 2007, DCP Partners entered into a private placement
agreement with a group of institutional investors for $130 million, representing 3,005,780 common limited partner units at a price of $43.25 per unit, and received proceeds of $129 million, net of offering costs. DCP Partners used a portion of the
net proceeds of this private placement to pay down a portion of the debt associated with the acquisition from Anadarko Petroleum Corporation of assets in southern Oklahoma, and used the remaining portion of the net proceeds to fund future capital
expenditures, including the MEG acquisition.      In June 2007, DCP Partners entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, or DCP Partners 
Amended Credit Agreement, which amended DCP Partners  Credit Agreement. This new 5-year DCP Partners  Amended Credit Agreement consists of a $600 million revolving credit facility and a $250 million term loan facility, and matures on
June 21, 2012. The amendment also improved pricing and certain other terms and conditions of DCP Partners  Credit Agreement.      In May 2007,
DCP Partners acquired certain gathering and compression assets located in southern Oklahoma, as well as related commodity purchase contracts, from Anadarko Petroleum Corporation for approximately $181 million.      On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy created two separate publicly traded companies by spinning off their natural gas businesses, including their 50% ownership
interest in us, to Duke Energy shareholders. As a result of this transaction, we are no longer 50% owned by Duke Energy. Duke Energy s 50% ownership interest in us was transferred to a new company, Spectra Energy. We do not expect this
transaction to have a material effect on our operations.      On January 1, 2007, we changed our name from Duke Energy Field Services, LLC to DCP
Midstream, LLC, to coincide with the Spectra spin.         
   F-34   

Table of Contents  

   DCP MIDSTREAM, LLC      (formerly Duke Energy Field Services, LLC)       Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)        Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005          

(a)  
  Principally consists of other contingency reserves, which are included in other current liabilities.     

(b)  
  Consists of other contingency and litigation reserves reclassified between accounts.     

(c)  
  Principally consists cash payments, collections, reserve reversals and liabilities settled.           
   F-35   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV               EXHIBIT INDEX             Exhibits filed herewith are designated by an asterisk (*). All exhibits not so designated are incorporated by reference to a prior filing, as indicated. Items
constituting management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements are designated by a double asterisk (**). Portions of the exhibit designated by a triple asterisk (***) have been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.         
        
   E-1   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
        
   E-2   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
        
   E-3   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
        
   E-4   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
        
   E-5   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
        
   E-6   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
        
   E-7   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
        
   E-8   

Table of Contents  

   PART IV         
           The total amount of
securities of the registrant or its subsidiaries authorized under any instrument with respect to long-term debt not filed as an exhibit does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The
registrant agrees, upon request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to furnish copies of any or all of such instruments to it.         
   E-9   

<EX-10.76>
 2
 dex1076.htm
 DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT DATED DECEMBER 16, 1992

Deferred Compensation Agreement dated December 16, 1992 

Exhibit 10.76         DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT        THIS AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1992, is between PSI
Energy, Inc. ( PSI ) and James E. Rogers, Jr. ( Rogers ).      A.    PSI desires to assure itself of
the continued benefit of Rogers  services until his retirement by providing an incentive for Rogers to continue his employment with PSI.      B.    This Agreement is intended by PSI to provide an incentive to Rogers to continue his employment with PSI until his retirement.      The parties agree as follows:       SECTION 1         DEFERRED INCENTIVE AWARD        On December 11, 1991, but effective
January 1, 1992, PSI s Board of Directors directed that in lieu of awarding Rogers a full cash increase to his annual base pay, Rogers shall be credited with a Fifty Thousand Dollar ($50,000) annual base pay increase in the form of
deferred compensation ( Deferred Incentive Award ) for the five (5)-year period beginning January 1, 1992, and ending December 31, 1996 ( First Award Period ). Thus, Rogers will not receive Two Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($250,000) in cash compensation during the First Award Period which he would have received but for this Agreement. If Rogers remains employed by PSI at the completion of the First Award Period, the Fifty Thousand Dollar ($50,000) deferred
annual base pay increase shall be further deferred for an additional five (5)-year period beginning January 1, 1997, and ending December 31, 2001 ( Second Award Period ). Thus, potentially Rogers will not receive a total of Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) in cash compensation during the First Award Period and the Second Award Period which he would have otherwise received but for this Agreement.       SECTION 2         BENEFITS REGARDING FIRST AWARD PERIOD        a.     Benefits if Employment Terminates for a Reason Other than Death before January 1, 1997.  Subject to Subsection 2.c.,
if Rogers  employment with PSI terminates,  

involuntarily or voluntarily, for any reason other than death prior to the completion of the First Award period, he shall receive a lump sum payment as
follows:       
    b.     Benefits if Employment Terminates for a Reason Other than Death after
December 31, 1996.  If Rogers  employment with PSI terminates, involuntarily or voluntarily, for any reason other than death after completion of the First Award Period, he shall receive annual benefits over a fifteen (15)-year certain
period beginning the first January following his employment termination. However, benefit payments shall not commence earlier than January, 2003, nor later than January, 2010. The annual benefit amounts payable for a fifteen (15)-year certain period
are as follows:       
    c.     Benefits Upon Disability before January 1, 1997 .
 Disability  shall have the same meaning as  total disability  in PSI s Long Term Disability Plan, as amended from time to time. However, if at the determination of disability PSI does not sponsor the PSI Long Term
Disability Plan,  disability  shall mean the complete inability to perform the normal duties of occupation  
       
   2   

during the first six months after commencement of disability; thereafter,  disability  means the inability to engage in any gainful occupation for
which Rogers is reasonably fitted by education, training, or experience.      If Rogers incurs disability prior to the completion of the First
Award Period, he shall be entitled to receive the annual benefits provided in Subsection 2.b. in the proportion that the total of his Deferred Incentive Awards received at the occurrence of the disability (which awards are made at the beginning of
each calendar year) bears to the total incentive awards over the First Award Period. Payment of benefits shall commence as of the cessation of the disability but no later than January, 2010.      d.     Benefits Payable Upon Rogers  Death . In lieu of the benefits described in Subsections 2.a., 2.b., and 2.c., death
benefits payable to Rogers  designated beneficiary shall be made as follows:      1.    If Rogers is
 insurable  and his death occurs either (A) prior to January 1, 1997, while Rogers is either actively employed by PSI or  disabled  (as defined in Subsection 2. c.) or (B) on or after January 1, 1997, but
prior to the commencement of the payment of benefits under Subsection 2.b., his designated beneficiary shall receive an annual benefit payable for a fifteen (15)-year certain period commencing in the month following Rogers  death as follows:
      
    For purposes of this Agreement, the term  insurable  means the life of Rogers is insurable by an
insurance company at rates acceptable to PSI in the exercise of its sole and absolute discretion and Rogers is deemed insurable only when so notified in writing by the Chairman of the Compensation and Nominating Committee of PSI s Board of
Directors.         
   3   

2.    If Rogers is not  insurable  when application for a life insurance
policy is made in 1992 and his death occurs prior to the completion of the First Award Period,      his designated beneficiary shall receive a lump sum benefit
equal to the amount Rogers would have received pursuant to Subsection 2.a. if he had terminated employment prior to completion of the First Award Period.      3.    If Rogers is not  insurable  and his death occurs after completion of the First Award Period, his designated beneficiary shall receive an annual benefit payable for a fifteen
(15)-year certain period commencing in the month following Rogers  death as follows:       
     SECTION 3         BENEFITS REGARDING SECOND AWARD PERIOD        a.     Benefits if Employment
Terminates for a Reason Other Than Death on or After January 1, 1997, but Before January 1, 200 2 .  Subject to Subsection 3.c., if Rogers  employment with PSI terminates, involuntarily or voluntarily, for any reason other
than death prior to the completion of the Second Award Period, he shall receive a lump sum payment as follows:       
       
   4   

b.     Benefits if Employment Terminates for a Reason Other Than Death After
December 31. 2001.  If Rogers  employment with PSI terminates, involuntarily or voluntarily, for any reason other than death after completion of the Second Award Period, he will receive, in addition to the annual benefits described in
Subsection 2.b., annual benefits over a fifteen (15)-year certain period beginning in January following his employment termination. However, no benefits shall begin earlier than January, 2008, nor later than January, 2010. The annual benefit
amounts, payable for a fifteen (15)-year certain period are as follows:       
    c.     Benefits Upon Disability on or After January 1, 1997 ,  but
Before January 1, 2002.   Disability  shall have the same meaning as  total disability  in PSI s Long Term Disability Plan, as amended from time to time. However, if at the determination of disability PSI does not
sponsor the PSI Long Term Disability Plan,  disability  shall mean the complete inability to perform the normal duties of occupation during the first six months after commencement of disability; thereafter,  disability  means the
inability to engage in any gainful occupation for which Rogers is reasonably fitted by education, training, or experience.      If Rogers
incurs disability prior to the completion of the Second Award Period, he shall be entitled to receive, in addition to the annual benefits described in Subsection 2.b., the annual benefits provided in Subsection 3.b. in the proportion that the total
of his Deferred Incentive Awards received at the occurrence of the disability (which awards are made at the beginning of each calendar year) bears to the total incentive awards for the Second Award Period. Payment of benefits shall commence as of
the cessation of the disability but no later than January, 2010.         
   5   

d.     Benefits Payable Upon Rogers  Death.  In lieu of the benefits
described in Subsections 3.a., 3.b., and 3.c., death benefits, in addition to the annual benefits described in Subsection 2.d., payable to Rogers  designated beneficiary shall be made as follows:      1.    If Rogers is  insurable  and his death occurs either (A) prior to January 1, 2002, while Rogers is either
actively employed by PSI or  disabled  (as defined in Subsection 2.c.) or (B) on or after January 1, 2002, but prior to the commencement of the payment of benefits, his designated beneficiary shall receive an annual benefit
payable for a fifteen (15)-year certain period commencing in the month following Rogers  death as follows:       
    2.    If Rogers is not  insurable  and his death occurs prior to the
completion of the Second Award Period, his designated beneficiary shall receive a lump sum benefit equal to the amount Rogers would have received pursuant to Subsection 3.a. if he had terminated employment prior to completion of the Second Award
Period.      3.    If Rogers is not  insurable  and his death occurs after completion of the Second Award Period,
his designated beneficiary shall receive an annual benefit payable for a fifteen (15) -year certain period beginning in the month following Rogers  death as follows:       
     SECTION 4         DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY        Rogers may designate, revoke, and redesignate beneficiaries. This
action shall be taken in writing and delivered to PSI s Manager, Benefits   Payroll, and shall be effective upon receipt  
       
   6   

by PSI s Manager, Benefits   Payroll. Upon Rogers  death, any benefit payable under this Agreement shall be paid to the person or persons
determined under this Section. Amounts payable shall be paid to the highest priority person or persons surviving at the time distribution is actually paid or commences. Distribution is as follows:       

1.  
  First, to the person or persons properly designated by Rogers under this Section.         

2.  
  Second, to Rogers  surviving spouse.         

3.  
  Third, to Rogers  surviving children.         

4.  
  Fourth, to Rogers  surviving parents.         

5.  
  Fifth, to Rogers  brothers and sisters.         

6.  
  Sixth, to Rogers  estate.        The determination of
PSI s Manager, Benefits   Payroll as to which persons, if any, qualify within these classes shall be final and conclusive upon all persons.       SECTION 5         BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURES        If for any reason a claim for benefits under this Agreement is denied by PSI, the senior level Vice President of PSI having responsibility for PSI s
human resources functions ( Claims Manager ) shall deliver to the claimant a written explanation setting forth the specific reasons for the denial, pertinent references to the Agreement s provisions on which the denial is based, any
other data as may be pertinent, and information on the procedures to be followed by the claimant in obtaining a review of his claim, all written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant. For this purpose:      a.    The claimant s claim shall be deemed filed when presented orally or in writing to the Claims Manager.      b.    The Claims Manager s explanation shall be in writing delivered to the claimant within 90 days of the date the claim is
filed.      The claimant shall have 60 days following his receipt of the denial of the claim to file with the Claims Manager a written request
for review of the denial. For the review, the claimant or his representative may submit pertinent documents and written issues and comments.         
   7   

The Claims Manager shall decide the issue on review and furnish the claimant with a copy within 60 days
of receipt of the claimant s request for review of his claim. The decision on review shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, as well as specific
references to the pertinent provisions of the Agreement on which the decision is based. If a copy of the decision is not furnished to the claimant within the 60-day period, the claim shall be denied on review.       SECTION 6         ARBITRATION OF DENIED
CLAIMS        Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to a final decision, upon review pursuant to the procedures set forth
in Section 5, that denies a claim for benefits under this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration under three arbitrators in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, and judgment upon the award
rendered by the arbitrators may be entered in any court with competent jurisdiction. Any arbitration under this Agreement shall be subject to the statutes of limitations that would apply if the claim on which the arbitration is based were brought as
a suit in a United States district court under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The site of any arbitration under this Agreement shall be Indianapolis, Indiana.       SECTION 7         PAYMENT OF BENEFITS        The benefits under this Agreement shall be paid solely from PSI s general assets. Rogers and his beneficiary or beneficiaries, shall not have any
interest in any specific assets of PSI under the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be considered to create an escrow account, trust fund, or other funding arrangement of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between Rogers and PSI.
      SECTION 8         FACILITY OF PAYMENT        If any benefit under this Agreement is payable to a minor, or other person under legal
disability, PSI shall have the payment made to the legal guardian of that person or to the person or organization as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct. Any payment under this Section shall be a complete discharge of any liability under
this Agreement to that person.         
   8   

SECTION 9         EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS        Any deferred compensation payable under this Agreement shall not be
deemed salary or other compensation to Rogers for the purposes of computing benefits to which he may be entitled under any qualified pension plan of PSI for the benefit of its employees.       SECTION 10         THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT A CONTRACT FOR EMPLOYMENT
       Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as conferring upon Rogers the right to continue in PSI s employ as an
executive or in any other capacity. This Agreement shall not constitute an employment contract for a definite term or in any way act as a restriction on PSI s right to discharge Rogers at any time or Rogers  right to terminate employment
at any time.       SECTION 11         NONALIENATION OF BENEFITS        Neither Rogers nor his beneficiary shall have any right to anticipate, pledge, alienate,
or assign any rights under this Agreement, and any effort to do so shall be null and void. The benefits payable under this Agreement shall be exempt from the claims of Rogers  or his beneficiary s creditors or other claimants and from all
orders, decrees, levies, and executions and any other legal process to the fullest extent that may be permitted by law.       SECTION 12  
       MERGER, CONSOLIDATION, OR CHANGE IN CONTROL        If a merger or consolidation by PSI with another corporation, or the acquisition of substantially all of the assets or outstanding stock of PSI by another corporation other than PSI Resources, Inc.
( Resources ) or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or a Change in Control of Resources occurs, then the obligations and responsibilities of PSI under this Agreement shall be assumed by any successor, acquiring corporation, or
controlling entity, and all of the rights, privileges, and benefits of Rogers under this Agreement shall continue.         
   9   

For purposes of this Agreement, a  Change in Control  shall occur if (1) any
 person  or  group  (within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  1934 Act )) becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the 1934
Act) of more than 50 percent of the then outstanding voting stock of Resources, otherwise than through a transaction arranged by, or consummated with the prior approval of, Resources  Board of Directors; (2) the shareholders of Resources
approve a definitive agreement to merge or consolidate Resources with or into another corporation in a transaction in which neither Resources nor any of its subsidiaries or affiliates will be the surviving corporation, or to sell or otherwise
dispose of all or substantially all of Resources  assets to any person or group other than Resources or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, other than a merger or a sale which will result in the voting securities of Resources outstanding
prior to the merger or sale continuing to represent at least 50 percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the corporation surviving the merger or purchasing the assets; or (3) during any period of two consecutive years,
individuals who at the beginning of that period constitute Resources  Board of Directors (and any new director whose election by Resources  Board of Directors or whose nomination for election by Resources  shareholders was approved by
a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason, with the exception of the
exercise of the voting rights conferred upon the record holders of Resources  cumulative preferred stock pursuant to the provision of Article (V)(B)(iii) of Resources  Articles of Incorporation, to constitute a majority of Resources 
Board of Directors.       SECTION 13         ENTIRE AGREEMENT; AMENDMENT        This Agreement and any written amendments to this Agreement contain all the terms and
provisions of the parties  rights and obligations relating to the subject of this Agreement and shall constitute the entire agreement of the parties, any other alleged terms or provisions being of no effect. This Agreement may not be amended or
modified except by a written document signed by all parties to this Agreement.         
   10   

SECTION 14         INTERPRETATION OF AGREEMENT        No member of PSI s Board of Directors shall be liable to
any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the interpretation and administration of this Agreement unless attributable to his own willful misconduct or lack of good faith.       SECTION 15         GOVERNING LAW        This Agreement shall be construed and administered by the laws of the State of Indiana to the extent those laws are not preempted by the laws of the
United States of America.       SECTION 16         BINDING AGREEMENT        This Agreement shall bind all parties, and their successors, assigns,
personal representatives, heirs, and any beneficiary. In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor to PSI, PSI will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of PSI to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that PSI would be required to perform it if no successor had taken place. Failure of PSI to
obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle Rogers to all amounts that would have been paid pursuant to the terms of Section 2b. of this Agreement
had Rogers remained in employment until after the completion of the First Award Period commencing at such time as provided for pursuant to the terms of such section.         
   11   

EXECUTED by PSI and Rogers effective as of December 16, 1992.        

PSI ENERGY, INC.    

By:   

Van P. Smith, Chairman   

Compensation and Nominating   

Committee of the PSI Energy, Inc.   

Board of Directors   

JAMES E. ROGERS, JR.    

By:   

James E. Rogers, Jr.   

12   

</EX-10.76>

<EX-10.77>
 3
 dex1077.htm
 ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT AND CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management Agreement 

Exhibit 10.77        FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED        PORTIONS OF THIS EXHIBIT MARKED BY *** HAVE BEEN OMITTED
PURSUANT TO A        REQUEST FOR CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND        EXCHANGE COMMISSION        ENGINEERING,
PROCUREMENT        AND        CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT        by and between        DUKE ENERGY INDIANA, INC., as Owner        and        BECHTEL POWER CORPORATION, as Contractor        for the        CONSTRUCTION OF AN INTEGRATED GASIFICATION        COMBINED CYCLE COAL-FIRED ELECTRICAL        GENERATION FACILITY IN EDWARDSPORT,
INDIANA        Dated December 15, 2008       RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Contains confidential information proprietary to Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. and/or Bechtel Power Corporation that may only be used, reproduced, or disclosed outside of such companies pursuant
to the terms of that certain confidentiality letter agreement, dated as of June 9, 2008, by and between Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. and Bechtel Power Corporation, as amended, restated or supplemented from time to time.   

Table of Contents        

i      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

ii      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

iii      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

iv      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

EXHIBITS        

Exhibit A   
      
  Scope Book   

Exhibit B   
      
  Communication and Management Protocol   

Exhibit C   
      
  Material Assignment Schedule   

Exhibit D   
      
  Site Description   

Exhibit E   
      
  List of Technical Data   

Exhibit F   
      
  Staffing Plan and List of Contractor s Key Management and Construction Personnel   

Exhibit G   
      
  Baseline Contractor Schedule   

Exhibit H   
      
  ***   

Exhibit I   
      
  ***   

Exhibit J   
      
  ***   

Exhibit K   
      
  ***   

Exhibit L   
      
  Confidentiality Agreement   
       
   v      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT AND      CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT      This ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT AND CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT (the
  Agreement  ) is entered into as of the 15th day of December, 2008 (the   Effective Date  ), by and between DUKE ENERGY INDIANA, INC., an Indiana corporation having a place of business in Plainfield, Indiana
(  Owner  ), and BECHTEL POWER CORPORATION, a Nevada corporation with a place of business in Frederick, Maryland (  Contractor  ). Owner and Contractor may be referred to individually as a   Party   and
collectively as the   Parties  .       RECITALS        WHEREAS , Owner has announced its intent to procure, construct, install and commission a new, nominally rated 630 MW integrated gasification
combined cycle coal-fired electrical generation facility (the   Facility  ) to be located at the Edwardsport Site (as further described in  Exhibit D  attached hereto, the   Site  ) in Knox County, Indiana (the
  Project         WHEREAS , Contractor is engaged in the business of designing, engineering, constructing and
commissioning power generating facilities;       WHEREAS , the Parties, together with the General Electric Company, acting through its GE
Energy business (  GE  ), have previously entered into (a) that certain Technical Services Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2006, and (b) that certain Technical Services Agreement, dated as of May 7, 2007
(collectively, as amended, the   Initial TSAs  ), pursuant to which Contractor and GE provided Owner (i) a Front-End Engineering and Design Study (a   FEED Study  ), which included a feasibility study for the
construction of the Facility as well as a Facility design and a basis for determining the price for Contractor and GE to provide the engineering, design, procurement, construction and commissioning of the relevant portions of the Facility, and
(ii) certain additional engineering services in support of the Project;       WHEREAS , following review of the FEED Study and the
other work products delivered to Owner by Contractor and GE pursuant to the Initial TSAs, the Parties have mutually agreed to modify the scope of services to be provided by Contractor and GE with respect to the Facility and the price structure
related thereto;       WHEREAS , as a result of such modification, Owner and GE have entered into an agreement pursuant to which GE will
provide certain equipment and engineering services related to the Project;       WHEREAS , as an additional result of such modification,
Owner and Contractor have entered into a non-binding Term Sheet, dated as of April 25, 2008 (the   Term Sheet  ), which provides the basis for negotiations between Contractor and Owner with respect to an agreement whereby
Contractor would perform certain engineering, procurement and construction management services in connection with the Project;         
   RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

WHEREAS , the Parties have entered into a Technical Services Agreement, dated as of June 9,
2008 (the   Recent TSA  ), pursuant to which Contractor has commenced, on a limited notice to proceed basis, certain of the services described in the Term Sheet on the terms and conditions set forth in the Recent TSA; and   
   WHEREAS , the Parties now desire that Owner engage Contractor to perform engineering, procurement and construction management services in
connection with the Project as set forth herein;       NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the recitals, the mutual promises herein and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which the Parties acknowledge, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, stipulate and agree as follows:       

1.  
   DEFINITIONS         The following capitalized words and
phrases used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings unless otherwise noted:      *** shall mean ***.      *** shall mean ***.        Affiliate   shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with such first Person at such
time.        Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the first paragraph above and shall include all Exhibits, and all
amendments hereto (including, to the extent applicable, Change Orders).        Air Permit   shall mean, collectively, the
documents issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, Office of Air Quality, related to and permitting the Significant Source Modification to Part 70 of the existing Operating Permit No. T083-7243-00003 issued to Owner on
January 25, 2008.        Assigned Job Duties   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.1 .        B V   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 21.4(b) .        Baseline Contractor Schedule   shall mean the critical schedule of key dates and milestones for Contractor s Scope of Services,
including the Milestones, as of the Effective Date, as prepared by Owner and Contractor and attached hereto as  Exhibit G , as amended from time to time pursuant to Article 9.        Borrowed Employees   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.1 .        Business Day   shall mean every Day other than Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday recognized by the State.         
   2      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

***  shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.2 .      *** shall mean ***.        Certificate
of Final Completion   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.3(e) .        Certificate of Mechanical
Completion   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.1(e) .        Change   shall have the meaning set
forth in  Section 9.1 .        Change in Law   shall mean a change to a Law, or a change in the binding interpretation
or application of a Law by the cognizant executive or judicial authorities having jurisdiction thereof, after the Effective Date that results in an increase in costs for Contractor to perform the Services, as affected to comply with such change,
which increase in costs Contractor would not have incurred but for this Agreement;  provided ,  however , that a  Change in Law  shall not include (a) any change to a Law that is enacted by any Government Authority prior to
the Effective Date but, by its terms, does not come into effect until after the Effective Date or (b) any change to any Law, or a change in the binding interpretation or application of a Law by the cognizant executive or judicial authorities
having jurisdiction thereof, that governs the manner in which Contractor performs its obligations under this Agreement.        Change
Order   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 9.3 .        CM ISBL Work   shall mean that portion of
the work, including re-work, in connection with the Project that is  inside the battery limit,  namely the gasification island, power block, flare system and cooling tower, and above the ground and above the finished foundations, including
all such work to be performed or provided under the Owner Contracts, as such work is further described in Part I of the Scope Book.        Communication and Management Protocol   shall mean the Communication and Management Protocol to be followed by Owner and Contractor attached hereto as  Exhibit B .        Competitors of Contractor   shall mean each of *** and their respective Affiliates (other than any such Affiliate that, before becoming
such an Affiliate, was a Permitted User).        Confidentiality Agreement   shall mean that certain confidentiality letter
agreement, dated as of June 9, 2008, by and between Owner and Contractor attached hereto as  Exhibit L .        Construction
Management Services   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.4(a) .        Construction Phase   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section 18.2 .         
   3      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Contract Price   shall mean the sum of (a) the *** and (b) the ***, as such
amounts may be adjusted by Change Orders in the manner set forth herein.        Contractor   shall have the meaning set forth in
the first paragraph above and shall include its successors and permitted assigns.        Contractor Default   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 19.1 .        Contractor Indemnitees   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 13.2 .        Contractor EP Schedule   shall mean the critical schedule of key dates and milestones relating
to the Engineering Services and the Procurement Services to be performed by Contractor hereunder (including the Milestones related thereto) as prepared by Contractor, and as modified or updated from time to time by Contractor in accordance with
Section 6.2.2 of Part I of the Scope Book and  Section 7.1  herein.        Contractor s Houston Office  
shall mean the office of Contractor located at 3000 Post Oak Road, Houston, Texas 77056.        Contractor s Project
Manager   shall mean the Person whom Contractor designates in  Exhibit F  to issue and receive communications on Contractor s behalf under this Agreement.        Contractor s Site Representative   shall mean the Person whom Contractor designates in  Exhibit F  to represent Contractor at
the Site.        Contractor s Steering Committee Members   shall mean the two (2) executives of Contractor designated
by Contractor to represent Contractor on the Steering Committee.        Control   shall mean (a) the possession, directly
or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, as a trustee or executor, by contract or credit arrangement, or otherwise, or (b) the
ownership, directly or indirectly, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the equity interest in a Person.        CPCN   shall
mean the Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity issued to Owner by the IURC authorizing Owner to begin construction of the Facility.        CPR Rules   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 23.2 .        Day   shall mean a
calendar day, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.        Defects   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 12.2 .        Design Documentation   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.5 , and in each
case excluding any Technical Data.        Dispute   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 23.1 .         
   4      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Dispute Resolution Meeting   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 23.2 .        Documentation   shall mean collectively (a) all drawings, specifications, reports,
studies, plans, manuals, schedules, analyses, recommendations, estimates and other documents, and the data therein, in printed or electronic format, that are prepared in the performance of the Services and delivered, or required hereunder to be
delivered, to Owner, including Design Documentation, and (b) all  Work Product  as defined in the Recent TSA.        Effective Date   shall mean the date set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement.        Engineering
Services   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.5 .        Environmental, Safety and Health Plan  
shall mean that certain Site Environmental, Safety and Health Plan, which, among other things, addresses unsafe and undesirable behavior for environmental matters (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and any applicable State agency), health matters
(industrial hygiene and employee health hazard prevention/mitigation) and safety matters (including work safety and fitness for duty), for the Project, Rev. 5, as amended, restated or supplemented from time to time.        Estimate   shall mean ***.       ***  shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.3(a).         Facility   shall have the meaning set
forth in the Recitals.        FEED Study   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.      ***        Final Completion  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.3 .        Final Completion Date   shall mean the date on which Final
Completion actually occurs, as determined in the manner set forth in  Section 11.3(e) .        Final Payment Invoice  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.6 .        Financial Institutions   shall mean any party entering into
a loan agreement, guarantee, note, indenture or security agreement with Owner or its Affiliates in relation to the Facility, including arrangements relating to interest rate or currency hedging and arrangements relating to the construction or
permanent financing or refinancing of the Facility.      ***        Force Majeure   shall mean, with respect to a Party, (i) unanticipated causes beyond its reasonable control (actions of Affiliates and subcontractors of a Party will be deemed to be under the
control of that Party); or (ii) acts of God (including fires, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, lightning, pandemic, epidemics and other natural  
       
   5      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

calamities), severe weather conditions, strikes or other labor disturbances except those involving only employees of Contractor (unless they are a part of a
national or international strike or other national or international labor disturbance), war (declared or undeclared), or riots, in each case, which actually delays or prevents a Party s performance hereunder. For the avoidance of doubt, local
strikes and other local labor disturbances involving employees of Contractor that are not a part of a regional, national or international strike or other national or international labor disturbance shall not be deemed to be Force Majeure. Force
Majeure shall not include inability to pay.        GE   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.        GE Change Review Board   shall mean GE s  Project Manager  under the GE Equipment Contract and Owner s Project
General Manager.        GE Equipment   shall mean the power generation, gasification island, power island and related equipment
to be provided pursuant to the GE Equipment Contract.        GE Equipment Contract   shall mean the Contract for the Sale of
Power Generation, Gasification Island and Miscellaneous Power Island Equipment and Related Services, dated as of December 20, 2007, by and between Owner and GE.        Government Approvals   means all permits, licenses, authorizations, consents, decrees, waivers, privileges and approvals from and filings with any Government Authority required for or material to the
development, financing, ownership, construction, operation or maintenance of the Facility in accordance with this Agreement, including the CPCN and other work permits, environmental permits, licenses and construction permits.        Government Authority   shall mean any federal, state, county, city, local, municipal, foreign or other government or quasi-governmental
authority or any department, agency, subdivision, court or other tribunal of any of the foregoing.        Hazardous Materials  
shall mean substances defined as  hazardous substances  pursuant to Section 101(14) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. Section 9601(14)); those substances
defined, identified or listed as  hazardous waste  pursuant to Section 1004(5) or Section 3001 of the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. Section 6901 or 6921); those substances designated as a  hazardous
substance  pursuant to Section 311 (b)(2)(A) or as a  toxic pollutant  pursuant to Section 307(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. Section 3121(b)(2)(A) or Section 1317(a)(1)); those substances
defined as  hazardous materials  pursuant to Section 103 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. Sections 1801  et   seq .); those substances regulated as a  chemical substance or mixture  or as an
 imminently hazardous chemical substance or mixture  pursuant to Section 6 or 7 of the Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. Sections 2605 or Section 2606); those substances defined as  contaminants 
pursuant to Section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. Sections 300f), if present in excess of permissible levels; those substances regulated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. Sections 2701  et 
 seq .); those substances defined as a  pesticide  pursuant to Section 2(u) of the Federal  
       
   6      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act as amended by the Federal Environmental Pesticide Control Act of 1972 and by the Federal Pesticide Act of 1978 (7
U.S.C. Section 136(u)); those substances defined as a  source ,  special nuclear  or  by-product  material pursuant to Section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. Section 2014);
those substances defined as  residual radioactive material  in Section 101 of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, as amended (42 U.S.C. Sections 7901); those substances defined as  toxic materials  or
 harmful physical agents  pursuant to Section 6 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. Section 651); those substances defined as  hazardous air pollutants  pursuant to Section 112(a)(6),
or  regulated substance  pursuant to Section 112(r)(2)(B) of the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. Section 7412(a)(6) or Section 7412(r)(2)(B)); those substances listed as  extremely hazardous substances 
pursuant to Section 302(a)(2) of the Emergency Planning   Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. Section 11002(a)(2)); and those other hazardous substances, hazardous wastes, toxic pollutants, hazardous materials, chemical
substances or mixtures, imminently hazardous chemical substances or mixtures, contaminants, pesticides, source materials, by-product materials, residual radioactive materials, toxic materials, harmful physical agents, air pollutants, regulated
substances, or extremely hazardous substances defined, listed or identified in any regulations promulgated pursuant to any environmental Law, and all other contaminants, toxins, pollutants, hazardous substances, substances, materials and
contaminants, toxic and hazardous materials, the use, disposition, possession or control of which is regulated by one or more Laws.        HR Issues   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.1 .        HR Policies   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.1 .        Indemnified Party   shall mean Owner Indemnitees or Contractor
Indemnitees, as applicable.        Initial TSAs   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.        IURC   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 21.4 .        Laws   shall mean, at any date of determination, all statutes, laws, codes, ordinances, orders, judgments, decrees, injunctions,
licenses, rules, permits, approvals, agreements, and regulations of any Government Authority, including all applicable codes, standards, rules and regulations of the State, in effect on such date, including all Government Approvals.        Lien   shall mean any lien, mortgage, pledge, encumbrance, charge, security interest, defect in title, or other claim filed or asserted
in connection with the Project by or through Contractor, a Subcontractor or any other third party under the control of Contractor (provided that neither the Managed Vendors nor GE shall be construed to be  under the control  of Contractor)
or any Subcontractor against the Facility, the Site, the Owner Equipment, the GE Equipment or any other structure or equipment at the Site.        License Continuation Fee   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 19.5(c)(ii) .         
   7      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Managed Vendors   shall mean the suppliers of Owner Equipment or Owner Services pursuant
to the Owner Contracts.        Material Assignment Schedule   shall mean the Material Assignment Schedule attached hereto as
 Exhibit C , as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with  Section 3.3(a) .        Mechanical
Completion   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.1 .        Mechanical Completion Date   shall mean the
date on which Mechanical Completion actually occurs, as determined in the manner set forth in  Section 11.1(e) .        Milestone   shall mean an activity or series of activities in the execution of the Services or the CM ISBL Work designated as a  Milestone  on the Baseline Contractor Schedule or the Contractor EP Schedule.
       Mine Remediation Reports   shall mean the  Mine Subsidence Evaluation, Edwardsport Power Plant, GAI Project Number:
C040605  dated April 2005, and  Final Report, Edwardsport Mine Stabilization, Duke Energy, Edwardsport Generating Station, GAI Project Number: C060638.02  dated April 2008.       ***  Payment Invoice   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 8.3(a) .        Monthly Progress Report   shall mean the written report Contractor delivers to Owner each month describing the progress in the Services
and the CM ISBL Work achieved during the prior month, as provided in  Section 3.9(a) .        Non-Directed Change  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 9.1 .        Notice of Final Completion   shall have the meaning set
forth in  Section 11.3(d) .        Notice of Mechanical Completion   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 11.1(c) .        NPDES Permit   shall mean the documents issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management, Office of Water Quality, related to the modification of the existing Edwardsport Generating Station NPDES permit number IN0002780 for the purpose of characterizing and permitting discharge of the integrated gasification combined cycle
process and stormwaters via the existing outfall, which documents shall be issued following Owner s application for such modification (it being understood that Owner shall submit such application after the Effective Date at a time reasonably
determined by Owner, in its sole discretion, based upon the critical path activities set forth in the then-current Project Schedule).        ***   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 14.4(a) .        *** Administrator  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 14.6(b) .         
   8      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

*** Site   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 14.4(c) .   
    Owner   shall have the meaning set forth in the first paragraph above and shall include its successors and permitted assigns.
       Owner Contracts   shall mean the Owner Equipment Contracts and the Owner Service Contracts.        Owner Default   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 19.3 .        Owner Equipment   shall mean the equipment that Owner shall purchase as contemplated by the Material Assignment Schedule and with
respect to which Contractor shall provide Procurement Services as generally described in Part I of the Scope Book and in the Material Assignment Schedule.        Owner Equipment Contracts   shall mean the contracts, purchase orders, limited notices to proceed or other agreements between Owner and the suppliers of Owner Equipment.        Owner Indemnitees   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 13.1 .        Owner Items   shall mean the Owner Equipment and other materials, supplies, parts and equipment used or to be used by any Managed Vendor
in connection with the CM ISBL Work.        Owner Service Contracts   shall mean the contracts, purchase orders, limited notices
to proceed or other agreements between Owner and the suppliers of Owner Services.        Owner Services   shall mean the
services that Owner shall procure and with respect to which Contractor shall provide Construction Management Services as described in Part I of the Scope Book and as indicated in the Material Assignment Schedule.        Owner Suppliers   shall mean the vendors, suppliers, construction contractors and others providing Procurement Items to Owner in respect
of the Facility.        Owner s Plainfield Office   shall mean the office of Owner located at 1000 East Main Street,
Plainfield, Indiana 46168.        Owner s Project General Manager   shall mean the Person whom Owner designates in writing
to issue and receive communications on Owner s behalf under this Agreement.        Party   shall have the meaning set forth
in the first paragraph.        Permitted User   shall mean any independent contractor engaged by Owner or any of its Affiliates
that (a) is under a confidentiality obligation to Owner or such Affiliate and (b) agrees to use the Documentation only for the purposes for which such independent contractor  
       
   9      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

was engaged by Owner or such Affiliate (which purposes may not be broader than the Permitted Purposes).        Permitted Purposes   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 18.2 .        Person   shall mean any individual, company, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, limited
liability company, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, Government Authority or other entity having legal capacity.        Prime
Interest Rate   shall mean, as of a particular date, the prime rate of interest as published on that date in  The Wall Street Journal , and generally defined therein as  the base rate on corporate loans posted by at least 75% of
the nation s 30 largest banks.  If  The Wall Street Journal  is not published on a date for which the interest rate must be determined, the prime interest rate shall be the prime rate published in  The Wall Street Journal  on the
nearest-preceding date on which  The Wall Street Journal  was published. If  The Wall Street Journal  discontinues publishing a prime rate, the prime interest rate shall be the prime rate announced publicly from time to time by Bank of
America, N.A. or its successor.        Procurement Items   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.3(a) .
       Procurement Services   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.3(a) .        Progress Meetings   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.9(b) .        Project   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.        Project Job Rules and Regulations   shall mean those certain Project Job Rules and Regulations Rev. dated July 22, 2008, as
amended, restated or supplemented from time to time.        Project Schedule   shall mean the critical schedule of key dates and
milestones for the Project as prepared by Owner and as modified or updated from time to time by Owner.        Prudent Industry
Practice   shall mean those practices, methods, processes and standards of safety and performance, as the same may change from time to time, as are commonly used, or are generally accepted, in the engineering, procurement or construction
management, in the case of Contractor, or construction, operation and maintenance, in the case of Owner, of electric power generation facilities with a complexity at a level similar to the Facility (irrespective of whether any such similar facility
is intended to capture carbon dioxide), which in the exercise of reasonable judgment and in light of the facts known at the time the decision was made, after due and diligent inquiry, are considered good, safe and prudent practices, methods,
processes and standards in accordance with generally accepted standards of professional care, skill, diligence, and competence applicable to the engineering, procurement and construction management, in the case of Contractor, or construction,
operation and maintenance, in the case of Owner, practices in the United States for electric power generation facilities with a complexity at a level similar to the Facility (irrespective of whether any such similar facility is intended to capture
carbon dioxide).  Prudent Industry  
       
   10      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Practice  does not necessarily mean a practice that would achieve an optimal solution or minimal solution, or any method or standard in all cases.
       Punch List Items   shall mean any minor defects identified by Owner or Contractor during installation and commissioning
(and upon which the Parties shall mutually agree) that do not affect the safety, reliability, operability or the mechanical integrity of the Facility or the ability of Owner to operate the Facility in accordance with Prudent Industry Practices.
       Quality Assurance Plan   shall mean that certain Duke Energy Edwardsport IGCC Project Integrated Quality Plan, which
comprises all those planned and systematic actions necessary or prudent to provide adequate confidence that a structure, system or component will perform satisfactorily in service and includes management and control of the design, engineering, and
construction services for the Project, Rev. dated October 21, 2008, as amended, restated or supplemented from time to time.        ***   shall have the meaning set forth in  Exhibit J .        Recent TSA   shall have the meaning
set forth in the Recitals.      ***        Sales and Use Taxes   shall mean all present and future sales, use and similar Taxes imposed on the sale of any materials from Contractor to Owner, if any, or the performance of the Services by Contractor by the State or
any other Government Authority.        Scope Book   shall mean the Scope Book attached hereto as  Exhibit A .   
    Scope of Services   shall mean the scope of Services to be performed by Contractor as described in Part I of the Scope Book.
Contractor s Scope of Services shall not include any of the services, equipment, materials or other work required to be provided by Owner as described in Part I of the Scope Book.      ***        Screening Measures  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.1 .        SDS   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 3.10 .        Services   shall mean the engineering, procurement, construction management and related
services and other obligations to be performed or complied with by Contractor hereunder, including those services and other obligations to be performed or complied with by Contractor as described in Part I of the Scope Book, the Material Assignment
Schedule or the Communication and Management Protocol, and the repair and warranty work relating thereto, and shall include all of the foregoing items that were performed prior to the Effective Date pursuant to the Recent TSA;  provided ,
however, that the Services shall not include any Shared Services.        Shared Services   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 3.1(b) .         
   11      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Site   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals as further described in
 Exhibit D  and shall include any additional property that Owner purchases, leases or otherwise has an ownership interest in and that is used for the Project.        Site Control and Access Plan   shall mean (a) the Time and Attendance Procedure, Document Number 25441-100-GPP-GCP-01012, Rev. 0 dated September 15, 2008, as amended, restated or
supplemented from time to time and (b) any other Site Project Procedures, which, among other things, address the safe, efficient and proper prosecution of the Project at the Site, security at the Site, custody and control of equipment,
materials and supplies at the Site and right of access and entrance to the Site by all Persons.        Site Project Procedures  
shall have the meaning set forth in Part I of the Scope Book.        Staffing Plan   shall mean the summary project organization
chart reflecting the overall organization and supervision of the Persons employed or managed by Contractor to provide the Services, attached hereto as  Exhibit F .       ***  shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 15.1 .        State   shall
mean the State of Indiana.        Steering Committee   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.3 .   
    Subcontractor   shall mean a Person, including any vendor, materialman or supplier, who has a contract (whether written or oral, a
purchase order or otherwise) with Contractor or a contract with any Person hired by Contractor or with a Person of any lower tier (e.g., a second- or third-tier subcontractor) to perform any of the Services, at the Site or elsewhere.        Substantial Completion   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 11.2 .        Substantial Completion Date   shall mean the date on which Substantial Completion actually occurs.        Sulfur Intellectual Property Rights   shall mean any and all existing and future patent rights, trademark rights, copyright rights,
trade secret rights, know how rights and other rights owned by or licensed to Contractor relating to processes or apparatus for the conversion of hydrogen sulfide to sulfur in an environmentally acceptable manner, including Claus sulfur recovery,
hydrogenating tail gas treating, and thermal oxidizing.        Sulfur Jointly Developed Improvements   shall mean any and all
improvements, modifications, variations, additions, deletions, or other changes of any kind or nature, which are useful for or in connection with Claus sulfur recovery, hydrogenation tail gas treating and thermal oxidizing, which are developed or
acquired jointly by Owner and Contractor during the term of this Agreement and which are based in whole or in part on the Sulfur Intellectual Property Rights.        Sulfur License   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 18.3 .         
   12      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Sulfur Licensee Improvements   shall mean any and all improvements, modifications,
variations, additions, deletions or other changes of any kind or nature which are useful for or in connection with Claus sulfur recovery, hydrogenation tail gas treating and thermal oxidizing, which are based in whole or in part on the Sulfur
Intellectual Property Rights and which are developed by Owner during the term of this Agreement and which are not at the time known to Contractor, or known in the public domain.        Sulfur License Royalty   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 18.3 .      ***      ***      ***         ***        Taxes   shall mean all present and future license, documentation, recording and registration fees, all taxes (including income, gross
receipts, unincorporated business income, payroll, sales, use, personal property (tangible and intangible), real estate, excise and stamp taxes), levies, imports, duties, assessments, fees, charges and withholdings of any nature whatsoever, and all
penalties, fines, additions to tax, and interest imposed by any Government Authority. Taxes shall also include Sales and Use Taxes and all present and future customs, duties or levies or other import or export fees, including any charges imposed by
North American Free Trade Association (NAFTA).        Technical Data   shall mean the calculations identified in  Exhibit
E  attached hereto.        Term Sheet   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.        Termination Charges   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 19.5(c)(i) .        Third Party Claim   shall mean any claim, demand or cause of action of every kind and character by any Person other than Owner,
Contractor or their respective Affiliates.        Warranties   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 12.1 .
       Warranty Period   shall mean the period commencing on the Substantial Completion Date and ending on the date that is the
earlier of (a) *** and (b) ***, as such period may be extended from time to time as provided in  Section 12.3 .       

2.  
   GENERAL PROVISIONS         2.1  Intent of Contract
Documents . It is the intent of the Parties that Contractor perform the Services and all of its other obligations under this Agreement for the Contract Price, which shall not be increased, except in accordance with  Article 9  or as
otherwise expressly set forth herein.         
   13      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

2.2  Independent Contractor . Contractor shall perform and execute the provisions of this Agreement
as an independent contractor to Owner and shall not in any respect be deemed or act, or hold itself out, as an agent of Owner for any purpose or reason whatsoever, except as contemplated in  Sections 3.2 ,  3.3  and  3.4 .   
  2.3  Subcontracting . Contractor shall not engage any Person, excluding Persons related to or affiliated with Contractor and functioning in the
offices specifically identified in  Exhibit I , to perform any portion of the Services without the prior written consent of Owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. In any event, Contractor shall ensure that it shall have the
right to grant the intellectual property licenses to Owner, its Affiliates and Permitted Users herein irrespective of the performance by any Subcontractor of any Services. No contractual relationship shall exist between Owner and any Subcontractor
with respect to the Services. Contractor shall be fully responsible for all acts, omissions, failures and faults of all Subcontractors as fully as if they were the acts, omissions, failures and faults of Contractor.      2.4  Interpretation .      (a)  Headings . The titles and headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be used for the purposes of construing or interpreting this Agreement.      (b)  Plural/Singular . Words importing the singular also include the plural and vice versa.      (c)  References . References to natural persons include Persons. References to  Articles  and  Sections  are
references to Articles and Sections of this Agreement. References to  Exhibits  are references to the Exhibits attached to this Agreement, including all attachments to and documents and information incorporated therein, and all Exhibits
are incorporated into this Agreement by reference.      (d)  Gender . Words importing one gender include the other gender.
     (e)  Without Limitation . The words  include  and  including  are not words of limitation and
shall be deemed to be followed by the words  without limitation.       (f)  Amendments . All references in this
Agreement to contracts, agreements or other documents shall be deemed to mean those contracts, agreements or documents as the same may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time.      (g)  Industry Meanings . Words and abbreviations not otherwise defined in this Agreement which have well-known technical or design,
engineering or construction industry meanings in the United States are used in this Agreement in accordance with those recognized meanings.         
   14      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(h)  Agreement . Provisions including the word  agree ,  agreed 
or  agreement  require the agreement to be recorded in writing.      (i)  Approve . Provisions including the word
 approve ,  approved  or  approval  require the approval to be recorded in writing.      (j)
 Written . Provisions including the word  written  or  in writing  mean hand-written, type-written, printed or electronically made and resulting in a permanent record.      (k)  Drafting . Neither Contractor nor Owner shall assert or claim a presumption disfavoring the other by virtue of the fact that
this Agreement was drafted primarily by legal counsel for the other, and this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by Owner and Contractor and no presumption or burden of proof will arise favoring or disfavoring any Party by virtue of
the authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement.      2.5  Inclusion; Conflicts . This Agreement (excluding the Exhibits) and
the Exhibits shall be considered complementary, and what is required by one shall be binding as if required by all. The Parties shall attempt to give effect to all provisions. The failure to list a requirement specifically in one document or section
of a document, once that requirement is specifically listed in another document or section, shall not imply the inapplicability of that requirement, and Contractor shall provide as part of its obligations hereunder all items required to conform the
Services to the requirements of this Agreement. Any provision addressing any issue with specificity shall not be construed to limit any provision addressing the same or similar issue in general. In the event of a conflict between this Agreement
(excluding the Exhibits) and the Exhibits, this Agreement (excluding the Exhibits) shall control and the conflicting provisions shall be interpreted so as to accord with the provisions of this Agreement (excluding the Exhibits).      2.6  Days . If a payment obligation falls due on a Day other than a Business Day, the obligation shall be deemed to be due on the next Business Day.

3.  
   CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES         3.1  Performance of
Services .      (a)  Generally . Contractor shall diligently, duly and properly perform and complete the Services and
its other obligations in accordance with this Agreement, applicable Laws and Prudent Industry Practices, and shall obtain and maintain all Government Approvals necessary or prudent for the proper execution and completion of the Services. Contractor
shall perform and provide all services not specifically delineated in this Agreement to the extent customary and necessary to complete the Services in accordance with Prudent Industry Practices. Contractor shall perform and provide the Services in a
manner that will not disrupt or interfere with Owner s operation of its existing coal-fired electric generation plant adjacent to the Site.         
   15      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(b)  Shared Services . The Parties acknowledge and agree that they have established
a shared services team comprised of personnel from each Party as more particularly described in the Communication and Management Protocol, which team is intended to provide support for work on the entirety of the Project, including the Services to
be provided by Contractor hereunder, as described in the Communication and Management Protocol, in order to reduce costs for the Project (the   Shared Services  ). Owner shall be responsible for directing and supervising the Shared
Services team and in the performance of the work allocated to the Shared Services team. The personnel of Contractor on the Shared Services team, without regard to the type of work to be performed by such personnel or the portion of the Project for
which such work relates, shall at all times be Borrowed Employees as contemplated by  Article 5 . The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Shared Services team shall be available to Owner for work relating to any portion of the entire
Project, including work outside of the CM ISBL Work. In performing the services with respect to any type of work allocated to the Shared Services team as indicated in the Staffing Plan or Communication and Management Protocol, Contractor shall use
only personnel from this Shared Services team. The Parties agree to provide good faith, prompt and courteous coordination and collaboration, and to assist the other Party, at its request, in such other activities, as may be reasonably required for
the successful and timely completion of work to be performed by the Shared Services team.      3.2  Appointment as Agent . Subject to the
defined limits of authority set forth in this Section, Owner hereby authorizes Contractor to, and Contractor hereby agrees to, act as Owner s agent for the purpose of performing the Procurement Services and the Construction Management Services.
Contractor shall have no authority to, and shall not, take any of the following actions in connection with the Procurement Services or the Construction Management Services (without Owner s general or specific approval): (1) make
awards, (2) approve invoices, (3) consent to any change order under any Owner Contract or the GE Equipment Contract; (4) agree to or permit any amendment, modification, or supplement of any Owner Contract or the GE Equipment Contract;
(5) waive or prejudice any of Owner s rights with respect to any Owner Contract or the GE Equipment Contract, as applicable, or the obligations of the Managed Vendors or GE, respectively, relating thereto; (6) initiate or conduct any
litigation, arbitration or other similar proceedings on behalf of Owner; (7) take any action that would cause a default or breach by Owner of an Owner Contract or the GE Equipment Contract; or (8) agree to or consent to termination or
suspension of work or activities under any Owner Contract or the GE Equipment Contract.      3.3  Scope of Procurement Services .
     (a) Subject to  Section 3.2 , Contractor shall perform procurement Services for services, equipment (including
spare parts related thereto), materials and supplies (collectively, the   Procurement Items  ), as such Services are further described in this Section and in Part I of the Scope Book (the   Procurement Services  ). The
Parties acknowledge and agree that the Material Assignment Schedule contains a preliminary schedule of Procurement Items required for the Project for which Contractor shall provide Procurement Services, that Contractor is  
       
   16      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

not obligated hereunder to provide Procurement Services with respect to all services, equipment (including spare parts related thereto), materials and
supplies required for the Project and that the amount or type of Procurement Items required for the Project for which Contractor shall provide Procurement Services may be changed by Owner from time to time. Accordingly, Owner may, from time to time,
propose changes to the Material Assignment Schedule to change the amount or type of Procurement Items required for the Project for which Contractor shall perform Procurement Services, and the Parties shall proceed with respect to such proposed
change in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in  Article 9 . Contractor shall perform the Procurement Services, as a Reimbursable Cost, with respect to any additions to the Material Assignment Schedule in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement.      (b) Contractor shall, in connection with the provision of Procurement Services, provide the advice
and recommendations to Owner as described in Part I of the Scope Book based on the actions that Contractor would take if Contractor were directly responsible to Owner as the prime contractor for the applicable Procurement Items. Each contract,
purchase order or other agreement executed or entered into pursuant to this  Section 3.3  shall be executed by Owner, and each such contract, purchase order or other agreement shall be an Owner Contract for all purposes hereunder. In
connection with the Procurement Services to be provided hereunder, the Parties shall mutually develop a process to integrate Owner s purchasing system with Contractor s purchasing system in order to coordinate the management of materials
purchased for the Facility and the payments made or due to Owner Suppliers. Nothing contained herein shall create any contractual relationship between Contractor, on the one hand, and GE or any Managed Vendor, on the other hand, and Contractor shall
have no liability (including any payment liability) to GE or any Managed Vendor with respect to goods or services provided by any of them pursuant to the GE Equipment Contract or the Owner Contracts, as applicable.         
   17      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

3.4  Scope of Construction Management Services .      (a) Subject to  Section 3.2 , Contractor shall generally manage, supervise and coordinate all CM ISBL Work as contemplated
herein and as further described in Part I of the Scope Book and the Communication and Management Protocol (the   Construction Management Services  ). Contractor shall perform the Construction Management Services in a manner designed
to achieve Mechanical Completion, Substantial Completion and Final Completion by their respective dates set forth in the Project Schedule.   Contractor shall perform the Construction Management Services in a manner designed to achieve
completion of the CM ISBL Work in compliance with the Scope Book, Design Documentation, Project Schedule and the other terms and conditions set forth herein. Contractor shall diligently perform the Construction Management Services in accordance with
Prudent Industry Practices and the other terms and conditions of this Agreement. In performing the Construction Management Services hereunder, Contractor and Owner understand that Contractor is acting in a construction management role and does not
assume the liabilities and obligations of a prime contractor with respect to the responsibilities assumed by the Managed Vendors or GE, unless the same or similar obligations are specifically set forth herein.      (b) Without limiting the generality of  Section 3.4(a) , but subject to  Section 3.2 , in performing the Construction
Management Services, Contractor shall, for the benefit of Owner and with the same diligence and care and pursuant to the same standards as Contractor uses on any other electric generating power plant construction project in the United States with a
similar level of complexity where Contractor is acting as the contractor for such project (but not less than the diligence, care and standards required by this Agreement), require each Managed Vendor to perform all elements of its work to be
performed by such Person in compliance with the terms of the Owner Contract for such Managed Vendor and manage the Owner Contracts in a manner designed to achieve the Project Schedule. Owner shall provide Contractor with the relevant portions of
each Owner Contract in order for Contractor to perform the Construction Management Services with respect thereto.      3.5  Engineering
Services . Contractor shall diligently, duly and properly perform and complete engineering Services, including providing working drawings, designs and specifications (the   Design Documentation  ) setting forth in detail the design
of, and the requirements and procedures for the construction or testing for, that portion of the Project for which Contractor is responsible for the design, as more fully described in Part I of the Scope Book (collectively, the   Engineering
Services  ). Contractor hereby acknowledges that the Design Documentation shall form the basis for work performed by other contractors, subcontractors, Managed Vendors or Owner Suppliers in respect of the Facility and that any review or
approval by Owner of any Design Documentation shall not relieve Contractor from any obligation or responsibility under this Agreement.         
   18      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

3.6  Development of Project Plans .      (a)  Site Control and Access Plan . Contractor shall comply with, implement and enforce the Site Control and Access Plan as set forth
in the Scope Book. For the avoidance of doubt, Owner shall have the ultimate authority with respect to the contents of the Site Control and Access Plan and may update the Site Control and Access Plan from time to time.      (b)  Environmental, Safety and Health Plan . Contractor shall comply with, implement and enforce the Environmental, Safety and Health
Plan as set forth in the Scope Book. For the avoidance of doubt, Owner shall have the ultimate authority with respect to the contents of the Environmental, Safety and Health Plan and may update the Environmental, Safety and Health Plan from time to
time.      (c)  Quality Assurance Plan . Contractor shall comply with, implement and enforce the Quality Assurance Plan as
set forth in the Scope Book. For the avoidance of doubt, Owner shall have the ultimate authority with respect to the contents of the Quality Assurance Plan and may update the Quality Assurance Plan from time to time.      3.7  Intentionally Omitted .      3.8
 Facility Manuals; Training . In connection with the Construction Management Services, Contractor shall review and assist Owner in collecting the manuals prepared by Managed Vendors in the manner set forth in Part I of the Scope Book.
     3.9  Periodic Reports and Meetings .      (a)  Status Report . Within *** Days after the end of each calendar month, Contractor shall prepare and submit to Owner a written status report covering the previous calendar month, which report shall be prepared
in a manner and format (hard copy and electronic) reasonably acceptable to Owner and shall include the information required to be included in such status report as described in Section 6.3 of Part I of the Scope Book (the   Monthly
Progress Report  ). In addition, Contractor shall prepare and deliver to Owner such engineering, procurement, material handling, cost, schedule, manpower, quality, safety, resource or other project reports relating to the Project as
described in Section 6.6 of Part I of the Scope Book and at the frequency set forth therein.      (b)  Progress
Meetings . From the Effective Date until the Final Completion Date, Contractor shall attend and participate in regular meetings with Owner which shall occur monthly (or upon such other interval as the Parties agree in writing) for the purpose of
discussing the status of the Services and the CM ISBL Work and anticipating and resolving any problems (  Progress Meetings  ). The Progress Meetings may also include, at the request of Owner, Managed Vendors, GE, Owner Suppliers, the
Financial Institutions, Subcontractors, consultants and other Persons. Contractor shall prepare and promptly deliver to Owner written  
       
   19      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

minutes of each meeting;  provided , that the publication or distribution of such minutes shall not constitute a permitted basis for providing notice,
or otherwise asserting claims, under this Agreement by any Party. No implication whatsoever shall be drawn as a consequence of a failure by any Party to comment on or object to any minutes prepared or distributed by Contractor. Unless otherwise
mutually agreed, Contractor s Project Manager shall attend all Progress Meetings after Contractor mobilizes to the Site. *** In addition to the above monthly Progress Meetings and unless excused by Owner, Contractor and Owner shall hold
regularly scheduled (but not less frequently than weekly during construction) status or scheduling meetings as requested by Owner.      3.10
 Compliance with Laws . Contractor shall perform all Services in conformance with applicable Law. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Contractor shall not be required to take any action or perform any Services hereunder
that would result in the violation of any applicable Laws, including U.S. anti-boycott Laws, and applicable Laws pertaining to export control and sanctions. If not otherwise exempted by Title 48 and to the extent applicable, Contractor shall adopt
and utilize a subcontracting plan that complies with 48 C.F.R. 52-219-9 for Small Diverse Suppliers (  SDS  ). Contractor shall: (i) use all commercially reasonable efforts to utilize SDS (and Large Diverse Suppliers); and
(ii) provide Owner a quarterly status report in a format reasonably acceptable to Owner. Contractor shall enter such report on Owner s website at www.duke-energy.com/suppliers/supplier-diversity.asp. Owner, its designated auditors and any
applicable Government Authority shall have the right of access during normal business hours to inspect Contractor s records related to the Project as they relate to SDS and compliance with this Section.      3.11  Owner Office Space . Contractor shall provide Owner with five offices and six cubicles in Contractor s Houston Office and two cubicles in
Contractor s office located in Frederick, Maryland and such additional space as reasonably requested by Owner. *** To the extent any additional office space is requested by Owner and there are issues with respect to the scope of such request or
availability of office space, the Parties will discuss the allocation of such office space and/or invoicing for such office space.      3.12
 Emergencies . In the event of any emergency endangering life or property, Contractor shall take, or direct any Persons under Contractor s control to take, all actions as may be reasonable and necessary to prevent, avoid or mitigate
injury, damage or loss and shall immediately report each such emergency, and Contractor s responses thereto, to Owner s Project General Manager and shall provide Owner a written report of such emergency, and Contractor s responses
thereto, within twenty-four (24) hours after the occurrence of such emergency.      3.13  Signage . Neither Contractor nor its
Subcontractors shall display, install, erect or maintain any advertising or other signage at the Site without Owner s prior written approval, other than signs and notices required by applicable Laws, related safety or work rules, Site
identification, or used to solicit employees for the performance of the Services.         
   20      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

3.14  Acknowledgement of Scope of Services . Contractor and Owner hereby acknowledge that the
Services are only a portion of the work required for the completion of the entire Project and that the successful and timely completion of the Project in accordance with the Project Schedule will require the good faith, prompt and courteous
coordination and collaboration among many contractors, subcontractors and other Persons, including Contractor, Managed Vendors, GE, Owner Suppliers, Owner and Owner s other contractors. Contractor agrees to provide such good faith, prompt and
courteous coordination and collaboration on its own behalf and to assist Owner, upon request, in such other activities as may be required for the successful and timely completion of the Project, including assistance in obtaining any Governmental
Approvals necessary for the operation, maintenance, use and ownership of the Facility. Owner shall use reasonable efforts to require Owner s other contractors to coordinate, collaborate and cooperate with Contractor in a manner designed to
achieve and maintain a schedule and sequence that will accommodate the interest of all parties so as not to unreasonably disrupt and interfere with their respective work.      3.15  Use of Existing Owner Property . Circumstances may arise where Contractor requests Owner to make available to Contractor certain of Owner s equipment or facilities for the performance of
Contractor s Services the use of which is not provided for in this Agreement. Upon such request, Owner shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide Contractor with the use of such equipment or facilities; provided, that the use of such
equipment or facilities shall not unreasonably disrupt or interfere with the work of other contractors, subcontractors and other Persons, including Managed Vendors, GE, Owner Suppliers, Owner and Owner s other contractors. Contractor shall be
responsible for reasonably inspecting such equipment to assure itself of the safety of such equipment before use and shall return such equipment to Owner in the condition which it was received, except for reasonable wear and tear. Contractor shall
inspect such equipment before Contractor s use and upon its return to Owner. Upon return, Owner may also inspect such equipment to substantiate whether or not any part of the equipment used by Contractor has been damaged in any way as a result
of its use by Contractor. If Owner is required to expend amounts (a) to repair any uninsured damage to its equipment or (b) to pay any deductible required to be paid for any insured damage, in each case, resulting from Contractor s
use of such equipment or facilities (ordinary wear and tear excepted), ***.       

4.  
   CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL         4.1  Contractor s
Personnel . Contractor shall comply in all respects with all applicable labor, employment and immigration Laws that may impact Contractor s Services under this Agreement, including the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and Form I-9
requirements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Contractor shall perform all required employment eligibility and verification checks and maintain all required employment records for its employees that will be performing Services and
Shared Services and for all Borrowed Employees provided by Contractor. Contractor acknowledges and agrees that it is responsible for conducting adequate screening of its employees and agents prior to assigning any such Person to perform any Service.
By providing an employee or agent under this Agreement, Contractor warrants and represents that it has completed the Screening Measures (as defined in  Section 5.1  below) with respect to such Person and that such Screening Measures did
not reveal any information that adversely affects such Person s  
       
   21      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

suitability for assignment by Contractor to perform the Service. Owner, in its sole discretion, shall have the option of barring from the Site any person
whom Owner determines is not fit or qualified to perform the Service, or who violates applicable requirements hereunder. In all circumstances, Contractor shall ensure that the substance and manner of any and all Screening Measures performed by
Contractor pursuant to this Section conform fully to applicable Law. Contractor shall advise and instruct the Persons assigned to the Site by Contractor to comply with all applicable office and field rules, regulations and safety procedures. At all
times, a person assigned by Contractor to perform Services shall remain an employee of Contractor.      4.2  Staffing Plan . Contractor
shall implement and maintain the Staffing Plan in connection with the provision of the Services. Owner may incorporate changes to the Contractor staffing scope in the Staffing Plan with the consent of Contractor (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld). Owner shall have the right to make any other changes to such organization chart in its sole discretion. Contractor shall employ a sufficient number of qualified Persons, who shall be licensed if required by applicable Laws, so that
Contractor may complete the Services and Contractor s other obligations under this Agreement in an efficient, prompt, economical and professional manner in accordance with the Staffing Plan and the Project Schedule.      4.3  Supervision and Discipline . Contractor shall supervise, coordinate and direct the Services in accordance with Prudent Industry Practices.
Contractor shall enforce discipline and good order among all Persons carrying out the Services and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to enforce discipline and good order among all Persons performing CM ISBL Work at the Site, in each case in
accordance with the Project Job Rules and Regulations. Contractor shall at all times take all necessary precautions to prevent any unlawful, unsafe or disorderly conduct by or among Persons performing the Services. Contractor shall only permit the
employment of Persons who are fit on each Day they perform the Services and who are qualified and skilled in the tasks assigned to them. Contractor shall retain responsibility for the performance, conduct and compliance of each of its employees and
agents assigned to perform the Services at the Site. Owner shall have the right to bar from the Site any Person. Upon request of Owner in its discretion, Contractor shall immediately remove those Persons to whom Owner objects from the Site and shall
not allow the further performance of the Services by those Persons (if any such Person is a  key personnel  as described in  Section 4.4 , such discretion exercised by Owner must be reasonable). In addition, in the event that
Contractor learns of any such misconduct, incompetence or negligence independent of Owner s objection, Contractor shall remove such Persons from the Site, shall not allow any further performance of the Services by such Persons and shall
promptly notify Owner of such misconduct, incompetence or negligence and the actions taken by Contractor as a result thereof.      4.4
 Contractor s Key Personnel .  Exhibit F  contains a list of the name and title of each of Contractor s key personnel who shall be responsible for the performance of Contractor s obligations under this Agreement. The key
personnel set forth on  Exhibit F  includes a designation of Contractor s Project Manager and Contractor s Site Representative. Replacement of any of the key personnel listed in  Exhibit F , other than due to death, termination
in employment or a leave of absence permitted as required by applicable Law, shall be subject to the prior written approval of Owner, which approval Owner shall not  
       
   22      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

unreasonably withhold, and any replacement must be qualified for the applicable position as mutually agreed between the Parties (such Owner acknowledgement
of qualifications not to be unreasonably withheld). Contractor shall remove and replace any such key personnel at Owner s reasonable discretion. Contractor s Project Manager shall act as Contractor s liaison with Owner and shall have
the authority (a) to administer this Agreement on behalf of Contractor, (b) to perform the responsibilities of Contractor under this Agreement, and (c) to bind Contractor as to the day-to-day project management operations under the
Agreement, in each case, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Communication and Management Protocol. Contractor s Site Representative or other Contractor supervisory personnel shall be present at the Site at all times when the
Services or CM ISBL Work are being performed at the Site.      4.5  Drug and Alcohol Testing . Neither Contractor nor its Subcontractors
shall in any way use, possess, or be under the influence of illegal drugs or controlled substances or consume or be under the influence of alcoholic beverages during the performance of the Services. Any person (whether employed or retained by
Contractor or any Subcontractor or otherwise) under the influence, or in possession of, alcohol, any illegal drug, or any controlled substance, will be removed from the Site in accordance with the Environmental, Safety and Health Plan and, subject
to Owner s fitness for duty program requirements, shall be prevented from performing any future Services at the Site or elsewhere related to the Project. Upon request, and to the extent permitted by applicable Law, Contractor will furnish Owner
copies of the records of employee drug and alcohol test results required to be kept by applicable Law. Contractor will indemnify and hold harmless Owner from any and all liability for any claims made by a Contractor or Subcontractor employee
resulting from removal from the Site by Contractor or by Owner in the event of an emergency or other exigent circumstances as provided in this Article.      4.6  Training of Employees . Contractor represents that all Contractor and Subcontractor personnel have received all necessary training required to perform the Services in accordance with applicable Laws.
     4.7  Substitution . Subject to  Section 4.4 , Contractor reserves the right to change any of its personnel performing
Services. In such event, Contractor shall provide replacement personnel meeting the requisite qualifications of the position to be filled and who have substantially similar capabilities.      4.8  Employer Responsibilities . For so long as any Person is assigned by a Party to perform Services at the Site, the Party assigning the Person
and such Person shall act as an independent contractor and not as an agent or employee of the other Party. Neither Party intends to create a co-employment relationship for the Persons working at the Site. Each Party shall comply, at its expense,
with all applicable provisions of workers  compensation Laws, unemployment compensation Laws, federal social securities Laws, the Fair Labor Standards Act and all other applicable federal, state and local Laws relating to terms and conditions
of employment required to be fulfilled by employers with respect to any of its own employees.         
   23      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

5.  
   BORROWED EMPLOYEES         5.1  Assignment of Borrowed
Employees . Each of Contractor and Owner shall assign certain of its employees (the   Borrowed Employees  ) to the other Party to perform certain job duties required for completion of the entire Project, including the job duties
identified as Shared Services in the Staffing Plan and the Communication and Management Protocol and the job duties necessary to complete portions of the CM ISBL Work (collectively, the   Assigned Job Duties  ). By assigning a
Borrowed Employee, each Party represents that it has completed the Screening Measures (as defined below) with respect to such Borrowed Employee and that such Screening Measures did not reveal any information that adversely affects such Borrowed
Employee s suitability for employment by such Party. As used in this Section, the term   Screening Measures   means, with respect to either Party, such screening and eligibility measures as required by such Party s generally
applicable human resources policies and procedures (the   HR Policies  ) and applicable Law. Each Party shall maintain all records with respect to each of its Borrowed Employees as required of an employer by applicable Law. At all
times that a person is serving as a Borrowed Employee, such Borrowed Employee shall remain an employee of the Party supplying such Borrowed Employee subject to all of its HR Policies. Promptly after execution of this Agreement, each Party shall
designate in writing a liaison to be responsible for addressing performance, conduct, and compliance issues (  HR Issues  ) relating to the Borrowed Employees. Each Party may change its designated liaison from time to time upon ten
(10) Days prior written notice to the other Party.      5.2  Qualifications . Each Party shall provide curriculum vitae for each
person such Party proposes to be a Borrowed Employee, which curriculum vitae shall include a description of the role of such person in his or her recent projects. Each Party shall permit the other Party the opportunity to interview each such person.
Each Party covenants that its Borrowed Employees shall have such credentials represented in writing by it to the other Party. Contractor shall reassign any such Borrowed Employee to a project other than the Project at Owner s request exercised
in its reasonable discretion. Contractor shall not cease providing Owner with the services of any of its Borrowed Employees without the prior written approval of Owner, provided that Contractor may cease providing Owner with the services of a
Borrowed Employee without the prior approval of the Owner (a) if such Borrowed Employee dies, resigns, transfers in accordance with the HR Policies, goes on leave of absence in accordance with the HR Policies (in which case Contractor shall
provide Owner notice of all relevant dates regarding such leave of absence), or is terminated for cause, as defined in the HR Policies, (b) if such Borrowed Employee is not expected (by Owner) to perform any services in connection with, or
otherwise relating to, the start-up of the Facility (including any scheduling or planning), upon the Mechanical Completion Date or such later date upon which the Parties may mutually agree or (c) if such Borrowed Employee is expected (by Owner)
to perform services in connection with, or otherwise relating to, the start-up of the Facility (including any scheduling or planning), upon the Final Completion Date. If Contractor ceases to provide a Borrowed Employee as permitted herein,
Contractor shall promptly replace such Borrowed Employee with another Borrowed Employee meeting the requirements hereof. Owner may reassign any of its Borrowed Employees.       
  
   24      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

5.3  Assigned Job Duties . Each Party shall determine the procedures to be followed by the Borrowed
Employees assigned to such Party with respect to their Assigned Job Duties; provided, however, that such Party shall not direct such Borrowed Employees to perform any duties other than the Assigned Job Duties or to perform the Assigned Job Duties in
a manner that would violate any of the other Party s HR Policies known to such Party. Each Party represents to the other Party that nothing in its HR Policies prevent any of its Borrowed Employees from performing his or her Assigned Job Duties.
The Borrowed Employees assigned to each Party shall be advised by such Party of, and the assigning Party shall instruct such Borrowed Employees to comply with, all applicable office and field rules, regulations and safety procedures. To the extent
permitted by applicable Law, each Party assigning Borrowed Employees shall provide the other Party with such information pertaining to such Borrowed Employees in connection with rendering the Assigned Job Duties as the other Party may request and
which is reasonably necessary to the other Party s direction and oversight of such Borrowed Employees and the performance of the Assigned Job Duties. Each Party shall require each of its Borrowed Employees to obtain and maintain all licenses
(including professional engineering licenses) and work permits, if any, required in connection with his or her performance of the Assigned Job Duties.      5.4  Responsibility for Work . Each Party shall be solely responsible for the effectiveness or technical, economic or environmental feasibility of any method, technique, or process implemented by such Party or
third parties resulting from any Borrowed Employee furnished to it under this Section. Accordingly, neither Party assigning Borrowed Employees shall have any liability to the other Party for loss or damage arising out of or resulting from the
performance by such Borrowed Employees of the Assigned Job Duties, including loss of or damage to property of the other Party, and the other Party hereby releases and agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Party assigning Borrowed
Employees and each such Borrowed Employee from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, costs, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees) for injuries to persons (including death) and for damage to
property, including property of the other Party or others, arising out of the performance by such Borrowed Employee of his or her Assigned Job Duties, provided that such Borrowed Employee had the credentials represented in writing by the Party
assigning Borrowed Employees to the other Party.      5.5  Employer Responsibilities . For so long as any person serves as a Borrowed
Employee, the Party assigning such Borrowed Employee and such Borrowed Employee shall act as an independent contractor and not as an agent or employee of the other Party. Neither Party intends to create a co-employment relationship for the Borrowed
Employees. Each Party shall comply, at its expense, with all applicable provisions of workers  compensation Laws, unemployment compensation Laws, federal social security Law, the Fair Labor Standards Act, and all other applicable federal,
state, and local Laws relating to terms and conditions of employment required to be fulfilled by employers with respect to any of its Borrowed Employee. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and for so long as any person serves as a
Borrowed Employee of a Party, such Party shall:      (a) pay such Borrowed Employee at such compensation levels (including any
overtime pay, if applicable), and provide employee benefits, as it provided such  
       
   25      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

person prior to becoming a Borrowed Employee, subject to periodic reviews and adjustments in the ordinary course of business;      (b) make wage payments to such Borrowed Employee through its payroll systems and on the same basis as such compensation is provided to any
of its other employees;      (c) make all applicable payroll withholding deductions for such Borrowed Employee, including
Federal and State income tax, social security, unemployment and disability insurance (if applicable), and promptly remit such withholding deductions and taxes due to all taxing authorities;      (d) provide each such Borrowed Employee, on the same basis as its other employees, with access to an electronic pay stub each pay day and
a W-2 form at the end of each year during which such person is a Borrowed Employee;      (e) inform such Borrowed Employee of
changes in benefits in the same manner such information is provided to its other employees and enable such Borrowed Employee to enroll in new benefit programs;      (f) have sole responsibility for administering all of its retirement plan(s), health and welfare plan(s) and all other non-statutory
employee benefit plans and programs for which such Borrowed Employee is eligible to participate; and      (g) maintain
workers  compensation insurance and keep such insurance in full force and effect at all times with respect to such Borrowed Employee and in compliance with applicable Law.      For the avoidance of doubt, the Parties acknowledge and agree that no Borrowed Employee shall be considered an employee of the Party to whom such
Borrowed Employee is assigned for any purposes, including HR Issues, discipline, termination, retirement benefits, workers  compensation or employer s liability insurance, all of which shall remain the responsibility of the Party assigning
such Borrowed Employee. Each Party assigning a Borrowed Employee hereby releases and agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the other Party from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, costs, liabilities and expenses
(including reasonable attorneys  fees) arising out of the failure of the assigning Party to comply with its obligations in this  Section 5.5 . Each Party shall maintain payroll and other wage, benefit and tax records related to its
Borrowed Employees in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices and all applicable Laws. Upon written request of each Party and to the extent permitted by applicable Law, the other Party shall make available to the requesting Party its
records relating to the other Party s obligations in this  Section 5.5  and its compliance with such obligations, and shall provide such certificates and copies of such receipts or vouchers, as the requesting Party may reasonably
require to assure itself that the other Party has complied with its obligations in this  Section 5.5 .      5.6  Cooperation .
Each Party will reasonably cooperate with the other Party in the defense of any and all claims, including litigation and administrative claims, against such  
       
   26      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

other Party brought by any Borrowed Employee, unless and then only to the extent that the Parties have an actual conflict of interest with respect to such
matter. Such cooperation may include providing the other Party with access to claim information, facilities, witnesses and other information and documents as reasonably requested.      5.7  No Third Party Rights . No provision of this Agreement shall create any third party rights in any Borrowed Employee (including any beneficiary
or dependent thereof).       

6.  
   PROJECT MANAGEMENT         6.1  Owner s
Representative . Owner shall appoint Owner s Project General Manager with whom Contractor may consult at all reasonable times, and whose instructions, requests and decisions shall be binding upon Owner as to all matters pertaining to this
Agreement and the performance of the Parties under this Agreement;  provided , that no amendment or modification of this Agreement shall be effected except by an Amendment, and no Change shall be effected except as provided in  Article 9 .
     6.2  Project Management; Communication and Management Protocol . The Parties hereby acknowledge and agree that Owner shall have the
right and authority to direct all matters relating to the Project, subject, with respect to the CM ISBL Work, to the Communication and Management Protocol. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Contractor s Project Manager shall
report to Owner s Project General Manager. The Parties shall interface, communicate, coordinate and collaborate with one another in the manner set forth in the Communication and Management Protocol in order to achieve the successful and timely
completion of the Project.      6.3  Steering Committee . The Parties shall establish a steering committee (the   Steering
Committee  ) consisting of Contractor s Steering Committee Members and two (2) executives designated by Owner. The purpose of the Steering Committee shall be to provide guidance with respect to the Project and to ensure efficient
project management in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein. The members of the Steering Committee shall meet at least once each calendar quarter (and at such other times reasonably requested by Owner) at such times and locations
as Owner shall reasonably request for the purpose of discussing the status of the Project and resolving any existing or potential problems or issues with respect to the Project. At the request of Owner, executives from GE may also participate in
such Steering Committee.      6.4  GE Change Review Board . At the request of Owner, Contractor s Project Manager shall participate
in any meetings of the GE Change Review Board to discuss the impact to the Project of any changes in the  Process Design Package  supplied by GE or the scope of the GE Equipment Contract, including the means to ameliorate any such impact.
     6.5  Access; Contractor s Office Space . From the Effective Date until the Substantial Completion Date, Owner shall provide
Contractor unrestricted right of access to such portion of the Site as Contractor may reasonably require to perform the Services at the Site and for Contractor s office space and employee parking. Owner (and its representatives)  
       
   27      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

shall at all times have access to the Site. Owner shall provide Contractor with office space at the Site as described in Part I of the Scope Book.
     6.6  Estimate . Upon request of Owner, Contractor shall assist Owner in preparing a budget for the Project, in detail reasonably
satisfactory to Owner, based upon the information contained in the Estimate. At the request of Owner from time to time, Contractor shall temporarily relocate one of its employees to Owner s Plainfield Office with a hard copy and an accessible,
electronic copy of the Estimate. Such relocated employee shall remain at Owner s Plainfield Office for the length of time requested by Owner; provided, that such employee shall not be required to remain at Owner s Plainfield Office beyond
the Final Completion Date. Alternatively, at the request of Owner from time to time, Contractor shall send an employee to Owner s Plainfield Office with a hard copy and an accessible, electronic copy of the Estimate. Owner shall bear all ***
incurred by Contractor in relocating such employee or sending such employee to Owner s Plainfield Office.   Contractor shall make available to Owner at Contractor s Houston Office and at the Site, during normal business hours upon
Owner s request from time to time, a hard copy and an accessible, electronic copy of the Estimate for Owner s review and inspection.       

7.  
   PROJECT SCHEDULE         7.1  Schedule Compliance;
Updates . Contractor shall perform its obligations under this Agreement and shall direct the Managed Vendors to perform work in relation to the CM ISBL Work in a manner designed to comply with the Project Schedule. Contractor shall
(a) provide the Contractor EP Schedule to Owner for uploading into the Project Schedule and the Contractor EP Schedule shall be updated from time to time and (b) cooperate with Owner and participate in developing and updating the Project
Schedule, including, without limitation, assisting Owner in collecting the information obtained from Managed Vendors that Owner will use to update the Project Schedule, in each case, in the manner set forth in Section 6 of Part I of the Scope
Book and in the Communication and Management Protocol. For the avoidance of doubt, this  Section 7.1  shall not limit the Construction Management Services, including Contractor s obligation to coordinate the activities of Managed
Vendors.      7.2 ***       

8.  
   COMPENSATION AND PAYMENT         8.1  Contract
Price . In consideration of the performance by Contractor of the Services and its other obligations hereunder, Owner shall pay to Contractor the Contract Price in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein.      8.2 ***      8.3 ***       

(a)  
  ***         

(i)  
  ***           
   28      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(ii)  
  ***         

(iii)  
  ***         

(iv)  
  ***         

(b)  
  ***        8.4  Invoicing and Payments .      (a) If any *** is deficient, Contractor shall be required to resubmit that *** in proper form;  provided ,  however , that Owner
shall pay any portion of it that is not deficient or subject to dispute. Owner shall review each *** and shall endeavor to make exceptions, if any, by providing Contractor with written notice by the earlier of (i) such date the *** is paid by
Owner or (ii) *** Days after Owner receives the *** and such substantiating documentation and materials as Owner may have reasonably required. Notwithstanding anything in this Article to the contrary, the failure of Owner to raise an
exception shall not preclude Owner from subsequently seeking, and Contractor from paying, a refund of any amounts to which Contractor was not entitled under this Agreement, and Owner may, by any payment pursuant to  Section 8.4(b)  below,
make any correction or modification that should properly be made to any amount previously considered due.      (b) Owner shall
pay Contractor, within *** Days of receipt of the *** and such substantiating documentation and materials as Owner may have reasonably required, in U.S. dollars, the undisputed amounts designated in such ***, plus any additions and less any
deductions which may have become due under this Agreement, as reflected in the ***. Any amount of a *** that Owner disputes shall be resolved promptly in accordance with  Article 23 ;  provided , that, if the amount in dispute equals or
exceeds ***, the Parties shall initiate the dispute resolution procedures set forth in  Article 23  within *** Days following the determination of the existence of a dispute. Once the dispute is resolved, Owner or Contractor, as applicable,
shall pay any amount owing promptly after the date of the final resolution. If for any reason Owner fails to pay Contractor for all sums due and owing (other than sums that are the subject of a good faith dispute or permitted to be withheld pursuant
to this  Section 8.4(b) ) within *** Days after receipt of a substantiated *** Payment Invoice which complies with the requirements of this Article, interest shall thereafter accrue on such sums due and owing at the *** until paid.
     8.5 ***       

(a)  
  ***         

(b)  
  ***        8.6  Final Payment . Following achievement of
Final Completion, Contractor shall submit to Owner an invoice for the final payment and other payments due under this  
       
   29      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Agreement (the   Final Payment Invoice  ) which shall contain *** (d) a determination of all other remaining amounts due to it pursuant
to this Agreement and (e) all supporting documentation reasonably requested by Owner. When submitting the Final Payment Invoice, Contractor shall submit a written discharge, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Owner, confirming
that the total of the applicable Final Payment Invoice represents full and final settlement of all monies due to Contractor under this Agreement. The procedures set forth in  Section 8.4  (including application of interest for late
payments) shall be followed for payment of the applicable Final Payment Invoice, and Owner shall be entitled to offset against any *** or Final Payment Invoice any amounts owing by Contractor to Owner under this Agreement.      8.7  Certification by Contractor . In each *** and in the Final Payment Invoice, Contractor shall certify as follows:       There are no known Liens that are outstanding at the date of this invoice and arose by or through Contractor, any Subcontractor or
any Person claiming through Contractor or any Subcontractor for which Contractor has not provided a bond or other assurance of payment; all amounts that are due and payable to any third party (including Subcontractors) with respect to the Services
as of the date of this invoice have been paid or are included in the amount requested in this invoice, and, except for those bills not paid but so included and amounts disputed between Owner and Contractor, there is no known basis for a Lien to be
filed. Contractor hereby waives and releases, to the extent of the receipt of payment requested in this invoice, any right to any Lien with respect to payment for such portion of the Services included in this invoice.       8.8  No Acceptance by Payment . Owner s payment of any invoice, including a Final Payment Invoice, does not constitute approval or acceptance
of any item or cost in that invoice nor shall be construed to relieve Contractor of any of its obligations under this Agreement.       

9.  
   CHANGE ORDERS         9.1  Change Requests . Without
invalidating this Agreement, Owner may require Contractor to perform hereunder services not included in the Services, remove services included in the Services or revise services included in the Services (each, a   Change   provided,
that, without the consent of Contractor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), Owner may not direct a Change that requires Contractor to perform services (a) *** (b) *** or (c) *** (each, a   Non-Directed
Change  ).      9.2  Change Proposals . If Owner desires to make a Change, it shall submit a written proposal to Contractor
describing the Change requested. Contractor shall promptly review Owner s proposal and submit to Owner a good faith estimate of the cost to develop a Change Order for such Change, such development costs to be determined on a *** basis. If the
estimated costs to develop the Change Order are reasonably acceptable to Owner, Owner shall promptly provide notice thereof to Contractor in writing. Upon receipt of such notice,  
       
   30      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Contractor s Project Manager shall promptly notify Owner in writing, as soon as practicable, either by giving reasons why Contractor, either directly or
indirectly through a Subcontractor, could not effect such Change (if this is the case) or by submitting the proposed contents for a Change Order, which shall include in reasonable detail:      (a) the effect and impact, if any, that the Change would have, in Contractor s reasonable judgment, on the Services, the ***, the
Baseline Contractor Schedule, any warranties herein and the operation or maintenance of the Facility,      (b) Contractor s
proposal for any necessary modifications to Services, the ***, the Baseline Contractor Schedule or any warranties herein, and      (c) Contractor s proposal for any necessary modifications to any other provisions of this Agreement, including the Scope Book and the Communication and Management Protocol.      Contractor shall provide Owner such supporting documentation for the foregoing as Owner may reasonably request. Owner shall, as soon as practicable after receipt of such submittal and supporting documentation, respond
with any comments or questions. Contractor shall not delay any Services while awaiting a response. If Owner responds with comments or questions, Contractor shall endeavor to address such comments or answer such questions as soon as practicable. If
Owner decides not to proceed with a Change (other than a Change requested by Contractor pursuant to  Section 9.4  but not required to be made by this Agreement), it shall pay Contractor *** incurred in developing the estimates and other
information regarding the potential Change.      9.3  Change Orders . If Owner wishes to proceed with the Change, Owner shall issue a
written order to Contractor authorizing the Change and setting forth any revisions to this Agreement necessary to effect the Change (the   Change Order  ). If Contractor refuses to accept such necessary revisions in the Change Order,
Contractor shall provide Owner written notice thereof within *** Days of its receipt of the Change Order, describing in reasonable detail its objections to the Change Order. Owner shall be entitled, despite such notice from Contractor, to require
Contractor to continue to perform its obligations hereunder as would be modified by the Change Order, provided that, if Owner requires Contractor to so perform and Contractor has provided Owner timely notice objecting to such Change Order,
(a) the Parties shall resolve the Dispute over the necessary revisions in accordance with the dispute resolution procedures set forth in  Article 23  and (b) if the Change requires additional Services, Owner shall continue to pay
Contractor *** incurred in performing the Services ordered in the Change Order in accordance with  Article 8 , subject to resolution of the Dispute pursuant to  Article 23 . For the avoidance of doubt, Owner may issue a Change Order in
order to effect a Change prior to completion of the process described in  Section 9.2  and, if the Parties dispute whether any instructions by Owner constitute a Change or are permitted by the terms of this Agreement without the necessity
of a Change, Contractor shall comply with such instructions, but shall be entitled to reserve its right to dispute that a Change has occurred.      9.4  Contractor Proposed Changes . Contractor shall have the right to request a Change (in which event it shall provide Owner the information required by  Section 9.2 ) but  
       
   31      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

shall have no right to require a Change that is not required by this Agreement without the prior written consent of Owner. If Contractor determines that a
Change is required by this Agreement, Contractor shall give Owner written notice within *** Days thereof.      9.5 ***       
    10.1  Event of Force Majeure .
The performance by Owner or Contractor under this Agreement shall be excused to the extent that such Party s performance is actually delayed or prevented by reason of an event of Force Majeure. If a Party is or will be reasonably prevented from
performing its obligations under this Agreement by an event of Force Majeure, such Party shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to remove the cause affecting such non-performance, to minimize any delay in or impact upon the performance of
this Agreement or any damage to or other impact upon the Owner Equipment or the GE Equipment and contain costs and expenses arising from such Force Majeure event or its effects; provided, that Owner shall have the right to direct the efforts to be
expended by Contractor in removing the cause affecting such non-performance and minimizing the impact thereof.      10.2  Notice . If a
Party is or will be reasonably prevented from performing its obligations under this Agreement by an event of Force Majeure, then it shall notify the other Party of the obligations, the performance of which is or will be prevented, and the nature and
cause of the event in writing upon the earlier of (a) *** Days after the notifying Party or its Project Manager becomes aware, through the exercise of reasonable diligence, of the event of Force Majeure and (b) *** Days after the event of
Force Majeure. The Party affected by an event of Force Majeure shall provide the other Party with weekly updates (i) estimating its expected duration, the cost of any remedial action, and the probable impact on the performance of its
obligations hereunder, (ii) of the actions taken to remove or overcome the event of Force Majeure and (iii) of the efforts taken to mitigate or limit damages to the other Party. The Party affected by an event of Force Majeure shall also
provide written notice to the other Party when it ceases to be so affected.      10.3  Suspension; Termination Due to Force Majeure . If
any event of Force Majeure claimed by Contractor or Owner delays Contractor s performance of substantially all of the Services for an aggregate time period greater than *** consecutive Days, then either Party shall have the right to terminate
this Agreement without liability upon *** Days prior written notice to the other Party.       

11.  
     MECHANICAL COMPLETION; SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION; FINAL COMPLETION           11.1  Mechanical Completion .   Mechanical Completion   shall mean that the following conditions have been satisfied:      (a) All materials, equipment and systems (other than any Punch List Items) related to the safe start-up and testing of the Facility
(excluding any  
       
   32      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

permanent improvements on the Site not to be performed, provided, construction managed or administered by Contractor as part of the Services) shall have been
constructed and installed in accordance with the applicable Owner Contract and applicable Laws, and in a manner that does not void any warranties, and all such systems shall have been checked for alignment, lubrication, rotation and hydrostatic and
pneumatic pressure integrity as required;      (b) The Owner Equipment and the GE Equipment (excluding the air separation unit),
respectively, shall be ready to turn over to Owner for start-up pursuant to the applicable Owner Contract;      (c) Contractor
shall have delivered to Owner all Documentation that Contractor is required to deliver to Owner pursuant to the Contractor EP Schedule and the Project Schedule, by the Mechanical Completion Date;      (d) Contractor shall have delivered to Owner the turnover packages (the required contents of which shall be determined by Owner) for each
system as signed by Contractor and a certificate certifying that, to Contractor s knowledge, all of the preceding conditions in this  Section 11.1  have been satisfied (the   Notice of Mechanical Completion   and
     (e) Within five (5) Days of receipt of the Notice of Mechanical
Completion by Owner, Owner shall inspect the Facility related to Contractor s Scope of Services and, following such inspection, Owner shall either: (i) deliver to Contractor a written acceptance of Contractor s Notice of Mechanical
Completion (the   Certificate of Mechanical Completion  ) or (ii) notify Contractor in writing that it disputes Contractor s certification that the conditions for Mechanical Completion have been met, stating with specificity
the reasons therefor. If Owner issues the Certificate of Mechanical Completion, the date of Owner s issuance of the Certificate of Mechanical Completion shall be deemed the Mechanical Completion Date. If Owner notifies Contractor that it
disputes satisfaction of the conditions for Mechanical Completion, then Contractor shall either promptly undertake such action or Services as is necessary to meet such conditions and issue another Notice of Mechanical Completion to Owner upon
completion thereof or refer the matter to dispute resolution in accordance with  Article 23 . In the event Contractor prevails in the Dispute, the fifth (5   th   ) Day following the date of Owner s receipt of the then applicable Notice of Mechanical Completion will be deemed the Mechanical Completion Date.      11.2  Substantial Completion .   Substantial Completion   shall mean that the following conditions have been satisfied:   
  (a) Mechanical Completion shall have been achieved; and      (b)  Substantial Completion  (as defined in the GE Equipment Contract) shall have occurred. Owner shall notify Contractor in
writing within ten (10) Days  
       
   33      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

of achievement of  Substantial Completion  under the terms of the GE Equipment Contract.      11.3  Final Completion .   Final Completion   shall mean that the following conditions have been satisfied:      (a) Substantial Completion shall have been achieved;      (b) Contractor shall have completed the performance of the Services according to all of the provisions of this Agreement, other than items
that cannot be completed until after Final Completion (e.g., warranty work);      (c) Contractor shall have delivered to Owner
the Documentation that Contractor is required to deliver to Owner pursuant hereto by the Final Completion Date;      (d)
Contractor shall have delivered to Owner a certificate signed by Contractor certifying that the conditions set forth in the preceding clauses (b) and (c) in this  Section 11.3  have been satisfied (the   Notice of Final
Completion   and      (e) Within five (5) Business Days of receipt of the Notice of Final Completion by Owner,
Owner shall inspect the Facility related to Contractor s Scope of Services and, following such inspection, Owner shall either: (i) deliver to Contractor a written acceptance of Contractor s Notice of Final Completion (the
  Certificate of Final Completion  ), or (ii) notify Contractor in writing that it disputes Contractor s certification that the conditions for Final Completion have been met, stating with specificity the reasons therefor. If
Owner issues the Certificate of Final Completion, the date of Owner s receipt of the Notice of Final Completion will be deemed the Final Completion Date. If Owner notifies Contractor that it disputes satisfaction of the conditions for Final
Completion, then Contractor shall either promptly undertake such action or Services as necessary to meet such conditions and issue another Notice of Final Completion to Owner upon completion thereof or refer the matter to dispute resolution in
accordance with  Article 23 . In the event Contractor prevails in the Dispute, the date of Owner s receipt of the then applicable Notice of Final Completion shall be deemed the Final Completion Date.       
    12.1  Warranty . Contractor warrants
as follows (collectively, the   Warranties  ):      (a) all Services will be performed in a prompt, professional
and workmanlike manner in accordance with Prudent Industry Practices, will conform to the requirements of this Agreement, will be free from defects and will reflect competent professional knowledge and judgment;      (b) the design Services will be free from errors and omissions; and         
   34      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(c) the Engineering Services (i) will be consistent with the data supplied to
Contractor by Owner for integration of Owner s scope of work for the Facility with the remainder of the Facility, (ii) will be consistent with the process design package documents delivered to Owner pursuant to the GE Equipment Contract,
as such documents are described in Attachments R-01 through R-08 to Exhibit R of the GE Equipment Contract (as such documents are amended, restated, supplemented or revised in accordance with the GE Equipment Contract) and Attachments R-09 and R-10
to Exhibit R of the GE Equipment Contract (as such documents are amended, restated, supplemented or revised by Contractor and Owner, respectively), in each case provided to Contractor in accordance with the Communication and Management Protocol and
applicable Site Project Procedures, (iii) will not cause the Facility to fail to meet the minimum performance guarantees as provided by Owner to Contractor from time to time, (iv) will not cause the Facility to fail to meet the
requirements of the Air Permit or NPDES Permit for the Project or any applicable Laws, in each case, as applicable to the Scope of Services, (v) will be consistent with any design criteria provided by any Managed Vendor or Owner Supplier and
(vi) will be consistent with the Scope Book and the Mine Remediation Reports.      12.2  Defects . If any deviation from, breach of,
or failure of the Warranties (a   Defect  ) is discovered by Owner or Contractor, Contractor shall commence, within a timely manner upon such Defect being discovered or upon notice of such Defect from Owner (which notice shall be
delivered promptly but in any event no later than thirty (30) days from discovery), to correct, and diligently and continually prosecute measures which are reasonably calculated to correct, such Defect, including re-performance or re-provision
of any affected portion of the Services, and shall demonstrate to Owner s reasonable satisfaction that such Defect has been properly corrected. The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to coordinate performance of warranty Services
at a time responsive to and consistent with Owner s interest in the efficient operation of its business. *** Contractor shall not be entitled to *** in correcting any Defect during the Warranty Period. Owner shall provide Contractor with
reasonable support and access at the Site, facilities, data and information as may be necessary for Contractor to correct Defects; provided, that any such access shall be restricted, and subject to such conditions, as Owner may have instituted
generally for its contractors. In no event shall Contractor s warranty obligations include any obligation to perform or to be liable for the costs of any remedial construction rework, repair or replacement of components, parts, equipment or
material.      12.3  Extension of Warranty Periods . If a Defect is discovered prior to or within the Warranty Period, then the Warranty
Period shall be extended to the *** of the date such Defect was corrected if such *** is later than the last Day of the then existing Warranty Period, but only with respect to the Service that was the subject of such Defect. In no event, however,
shall Contractor s obligations under  Section 12.1 , including any rewarranty, extend beyond the earlier to occur of (i) *** after Substantial Completion and (ii) *** after achievement of Mechanical Completion.   
  12.4  Intellectual Property Warranties . Contactor warrants that: (a) the Services, (b) Documentation (other than any Technical Data),
(c) Owner s or any Permitted User s authorized implementation of processes described in the Documentation (other than any  
       
   35      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Technical Data), (d) Owner s or any Permitted User s authorized construction or operation of the Facility as described in the Documentation
(other than any Technical Data), (e) Owner s or any Permitted User s practice or exercise of the Sulfur Intellectual Property Rights, and (f) Owner s or any Permitted User s authorized use of data contained in the
Documentation (other than any Technical Data) shall not infringe or constitute a misappropriation of any right of any third party, including any copyrights, mask work rights, patent rights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or confidentiality
rights of any third party. Contractor warrants that it has the right to grant the licenses purported to be granted by it herein. The foregoing warranties shall not apply with respect to Owner s exercise of any intellectual property rights owned
by GE (and not owned by Contractor) or any modification to the Documentation made by Owner or its Permitted Users, unless such modification was authorized in writing by Contractor. In the event Owner terminates the Agreement pursuant to
 Section 19.5(b)  and Owner fails to pay the License Continuation Fee identified in  Section 19.5(c)(ii) , then the warranty obligations contained in  Sections 12.4(b) ,  (c) ,  (d)  and  (f)  shall
immediately cease and terminate.      12.5  Responsibility for Warranty Services . Contractor shall have primary liability with respect to
the warranties specified in  Sections 12.1  and  12.4 , whether or not any Defect or other matter is also covered by a warranty of a Subcontractor, and Owner need only look to Contractor to correct such Defect. In addition,
Contractor s warranties shall not be restricted in any manner by any warranty of a Subcontractor, and the refusal of a Subcontractor to provide or honor a warranty or to correct defective, deficient or nonconforming Services shall not excuse
Contractor from its liability on its warranties to Owner. Contractor shall have no liability for fabrication errors or violations of an Owner Services Contract or an Owner Equipment Contract or other defect in items supplied or work performed by
Owner Suppliers unless such items or work were prepared or performed in accordance with the Design Documentation provided by Contractor or otherwise at the direction of Contractor, in which case Contractor s liability shall be limited to the
re-performance of the applicable Services that are the cause of such error, violation or defect.      12.6  Exclusive Warranties . THE
WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT ARE EXCLUSIVE AND ARE IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, WHETHER STATUTORY, EXPRESS, OR IMPLIED (INCLUDING ALL WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ALL WARRANTIES ARISING FROM
COURSE OF DEALING OR USAGE OF TRADE). Correction of Defects in the manner and within the period of time provided herein shall constitute complete fulfillment of all the liabilities of Contractor with respect to such Defect, whether the claims by
Owner are based in contract, in tort (including negligence and strict liability), or otherwise.       
    13.1  Contractor s
Indemnity . Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless Owner, its parents and Affiliates, and their respective partners, shareholders, members, agents, employees, officers, directors, and lenders and Financial Institutions (collectively, the
  Owner Indemnitees  ) from and against:         
   36      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(a) any and all Third Party Claims and all damages, liabilities, losses, costs and
expenses associated therewith (including reasonable attorneys  fees and other professionals  fees) for any injury of or death to persons, damage to or destruction of third party property (other than the Facility), whether contractual, in
tort, or as a matter of strict liability or liability imposed by Law, to the extent any of the foregoing arise out of the negligence or willful misconduct of Contractor;      (b) any fines or penalties arising out of any violation or alleged violation of Laws by Contractor; and      (c) any and all claims, demands or causes of action of every kind and character by any Person and all damages, liabilities, losses, costs
and expenses associated therewith (including reasonable attorneys  fees and other professionals  fees) for improper management of Hazardous Materials brought onto or generated (other than normal operational by-products) on the Site by
Contractor and, with respect to any Hazardous Materials brought onto the Site in containers, any release of such Hazardous Materials caused by Contractor.      In no event shall Contractor s indemnification obligations hereunder extend to bodily injury or property damage claims brought by employees of Managed Vendors, or any of Owner s other contractors, and their respective lower-tier
subcontractors. Owner agrees that it shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause all indemnity, release, additional insured and hold-harmless agreements contained in Owner Contracts whereby the Managed Vendors agree to indemnify, release or
hold harmless Owner or name Owner as an additional insured to extend similar protection to Contractor. Contractor s liability under  Section 13.1(c)  shall terminate *** after the expiration of the Warranty Period.      13.2  Owner s Indemnity . Owner shall indemnify and hold harmless Contractor, its parents and Affiliates and their respective partners,
shareholders, members, agents, employees, officers, directors, and lenders (collectively, the   Contractor Indemnitees  ) from and against:      (a) any and all Third Party Claims and all damages, liabilities, losses, costs and expenses associated therewith (including reasonable attorneys  fees and other professionals  fees) for any injury of or
death to persons, damage to or destruction of third party property (other than the Facility), whether contractual, in tort, or as a matter of strict liability or liability imposed by Law, to the extent any of the foregoing arise out of the
negligence or willful misconduct of Owner;      (b) any fines or penalties arising out of any violation or alleged violation of
Laws by Owner; and      (c) any and all claims, demands or causes of action of every kind and character by any Person and all
damages, liabilities, losses, costs and expenses associated therewith (including reasonable attorneys  fees and other professionals  fees) for:         
   37      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(i) any pre-existing environmental conditions existing at the Site and any damages or
claims resulting from Hazardous Materials brought onto or generated on the Site by any party other than Contractor, as well as any normal operational by-products; or      (ii) any mine remediation work or mine subsidence performed by or on behalf of Owner;  provided , that Owner s indemnity
obligations under this Section shall not extend to any failure of Contractor to address or incorporate information specifically stated in the Mine Remediation Reports.      13.3  Intellectual Property Indemnity . Contractor shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Owner Indemnitees from and against all liabilities, actions, damages, claims, demands requests, judgments, losses,
costs, expenses, suits or actions, including reasonable attorneys  fees and court costs for allegations that the Services, Documentation (other than any Technical Data), Owner s or any Permitted User s authorized implementation of
processes described in the Documentation (other than any Technical Data), Owner s or any Permitted User s practice or exercise of the Sulfur Intellectual Property Rights, Owner s or any Permitted User s authorized construction or
operation of the Facility as described in the Documentation (other than any Technical Data), or Owner s or any Permitted User s authorized use of data contained in the Documentation (other than any Technical Data) infringe any intellectual
or proprietary right of any third party, including any copyrights, patent rights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or confidentiality rights of any third party. The foregoing obligations shall not apply with respect to infringements caused
solely by Owner s exercise of any intellectual property rights owned by GE (and not owned by Contractor) or any modification to the Documentation made by Owner or its Permitted Users, unless such modification was authorized in writing by
Contractor. In the event Owner terminates the Agreement pursuant to  Section 19.5(b)  and Owner fails to pay the License Continuation Fee identified in  Section 19.5(c)(ii) , then the indemnity obligations contained in this
 Section 13.3  shall (i) only apply to the actions or activities (including, without limitation, the use of any Documentation) of the Owner Indemnitees taken prior to the expiration of the license granted pursuant to
 Section 18.2  and (ii) survive for a period of *** from the date of such termination or expiration.      13.4  Indemnity
Procedures for Third Party Claims .      (a) In the event of a Third Party Claim with respect to which an Indemnified Party
has a claim for indemnification under this Article, then the Indemnified Party must notify the indemnifying Party thereof in writing of the existence of such Third Party Claim and must deliver copies of any documents served on the Indemnified Party
with respect to such Third Party Claim;  provided ,  however , that any failure to notify the indemnifying Party or deliver such copies will not relieve the indemnifying Party from any obligation hereunder unless (and then solely to the
extent that) the indemnifying Party is materially prejudiced by such failure.      (b) The indemnifying Party shall have the
obligation to conduct and control, through counsel of its own choosing, reasonably acceptable to the  
       
   38      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Indemnified Party, any Third Party Claim;  provided ,  however , that (i) the Indemnified Party may, at its election, participate in the
defense thereof at its sole cost and expense and (ii) if (A) the indemnifying Party shall fail to defend any Third Party Claim, (B) the Parties mutually agree in writing to allow the Indemnified Party to assume the defense of such
Third Party Claim and forego any indemnity claimed under this Article, (C) in the reasonable opinion of legal counsel for the Indemnified Party, such Third Party Claim involves the potential imposition of criminal liability on the Indemnified
Party, its directors, officers, employees or agents, (D) in the reasonable opinion of legal counsel for the Indemnified Party, the Third Party Claim involves, or is likely to involve, any claim by any Government Authority or (E) in the
reasonable opinion of legal counsel for the Indemnified Party, an actual or potential conflict of interest exists where it is advisable for such Indemnified Party to be represented by separate counsel, then the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to
control and assume responsibility for the defense of such Third Party Claim, at the cost and expense of the indemnifying Party. The indemnifying Party may, in any event, participate in such proceedings at its own cost and expense.      (c) The indemnifying Party, in the defense of any such litigation, other proceeding or other claim, shall have the right in its sole
discretion to settle such Third Party Claim only if (i) such settlement involves only the payment of money and execution of appropriate releases of the Indemnified Party and its Affiliates, (ii) there is no finding or admission of any
violation of Law, (iii) the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates will have no liability with respect to such compromise or settlement, and (iv) the Indemnified Party and its Affiliates will have no restriction on their respective exercise
of rights granted herein. Otherwise, no such Third Party Claim shall be settled or agreed to without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party. The Indemnified Party and the indemnifying Party shall fully cooperate in good faith in
connection with such defense and shall cause their legal counsel, accountants and affiliates to do so, and shall make available to the other Party all relevant books, records, and information (in such Party s control) during normal business
hours, and shall furnish to each other such other assistance as the other Party may reasonably require in connection with such defense, including making employees of the Indemnified Party available to testify and assist others in testifying in any
such proceedings.      13.5  Insurance . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the indemnification obligations in
this Agreement are independent of, and shall not be limited by, any insurance required hereunder or otherwise available.       
    14.1 ***.       

(a)  
  ***         

(b)  
  ***           
   39      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(c)  
  ***         

(d)  
  ***         

(e)  
  ***         

(f)  
  ***        14.2 ***      14.3 ***.      14.4 ***.       

(a)  
  ***         

(i)  
  ***         

(A)  
  ***         

(B)  
  ***         

(C)  
  ***        ***       

(A)  
  ***         

(B)  
  ***         

(C)  
  ***         

(D)  
  ***         

(E)  
  ***         

(F)  
  ***         

(G)  
  ***         

(H)  
  ***         

(I)  
  ***         

(J)  
  ***         

(ii)  
  ***         

(b)  
  ***           
   40      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(c)  
  ***         

(d)  
  ***         

(e)  
  ***         

(f)  
  ***         

(g)  
  ***         

(i)  
  ***         

(ii)  
  ***        14.5  Contractor Insurance .      (a) Contractor shall, and shall require and ensure that each of its Subcontractors performing Services on Site whether or not enrolled in the ***,
purchase and maintain the insurance coverages listed below from a company or companies licensed to do business in the State that have (and shall maintain during the applicable policy period) a minimum A.M. Best rating of A-VII and are reasonably
acceptable to Owner. Contractor s insurance shall be effective as of the Effective Date and shall be maintained until Final Completion, except for Products Liability/Completed Operations coverage, which shall be maintained for ten
(10) years beyond Final Completion. Deductible amounts shall be the sole responsibility of Contractor and the Subcontractors.      (i) Automobile, Bodily Injury and Property Damage Liability insurance covering all automobiles whether owned, non-owned, leased or hired, having *** combined single limit;      (ii) All Risk Contractor s Equipment Insurance covering owned, used and leased tools, construction plant and equipment required to
perform the Services (Contractor or Subcontractors may elect to self-insure such exposure if approved in writing by Owner, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld);      (iii) Workers  Compensation and Employer s Liability Insurance having Indiana Statutory Limits with All States coverage
including U.S. Longshoremen s and Harbor Workers Act Coverage as appropriate and Employer s Liability will be provided with the following limits:      (A) $*** Each Accident Bodily Injury by Disease;      (B) $*** Policy Limit Bodily Injury by
Disease; and      (C) $*** Each Disease Bodily Injury by Disease.         
   41      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Such Workers  Compensation insurance shall include a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Owner,
Contractor and any Subcontractor that is enrolled in the ***.      (iv) Commercial General Liability Insurance covering Off-Site
Activities Only (if enrolled in the ***, otherwise without the Off-Site Activities Only limitation) having limits of $*** per occurrence, $*** annual aggregate. Coverage shall be written on an ISO occurrence Form (CG 00 01 12/04) or equivalent and
include the following:      (A) Premises-Operations;      (B) Products Liability/Completed Operations;      (C) Broad Form Property Damage;      (D) Contractual Liability (Broad Form) Including Third
Party Coverage;      (E) Explosion, Collapse and Underground; and      (F) Fellow Employee Exclusion Removed.      (v) Umbrella Liability covering Off-Site Activities Only *** having limits of $*** per occurrence and aggregate for Contractor and $*** per occurrence and aggregate for Subcontractors. Such umbrella liability policy
shall follow the form of the required underlying coverages, be in excess of those underlying policies without gaps in limits and provide coverage as broad as the underlying.      (vi) If aircraft are used in performance of the Services, Contractor shall provide or cause the operators of aircraft to provide Aircraft
Liability Insurance having a per occurrence limit of $***.      (b) Prior to beginning any Services at the Site, Contractor and each
Subcontractor shall furnish to Owner s designated *** industry standard ACORD or Owner-approved form certificates evidencing the above coverages. Certificates shall show that policies will not be canceled, renewed or materially modified unless
at least thirty (30) days  prior written notice via certified United States mail has been given to Owner. All coverages and certificates (except Workers Compensation) further shall show Owner and its successors and assigns as additional
insureds for their imputed liability as a result of Contractor s negligent operations hereunder, using ISO additional insured (CG 20 10 11 85) or equivalent of the combination of forms CG 2033 and CG 20 37 for completed operations. All
insurance coverage shall include a waiver of subrogation rights by the insurer against Owner, Contractor and Subcontractors *** and as contractually required. Neither approval nor failure to disapprove insurance furnished by Contractor or any
Subcontractor shall relieve  
       
   42      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Contractor from responsibility to provide, or cause to be provided, insurance as required by this Agreement.      14.6  General Requirements .      (a)
Contractor acknowledges and agrees that Contractor s costs for maintaining the insurance required under  Section 14.5  are *** to the Agreement and will not be separately invoiced ***.      (b) ***      (c) Each Subcontractor ***
coverage under this Article shall seek *** by giving written notice to ***, in writing, within two (2) Business Days after the award of any subcontract providing the following information:      1. Subcontract Number      2. Legal Name of
Subcontractor      3. Address      4.
Telephone, persons to contact      5. Estimated amount of subcontract      6. Estimated dates the subcontract work will commence and will be completed      7. Type(s) of work to be performed      It is the responsibility of Contractor to cause all of its Subcontractors to give such
written notice ***. Subcontractors who are not *** shall not be covered by ***. Owner shall have no liability or responsibility for the absence of insurance coverage for Subcontractors who do not provide written notice as described in this Section.
     (d) Promptly upon placement of ***, Contractor shall properly ***. All Subcontractors shall properly *** prior to commencing any services
at the Site.      (e) All dividends or refunds payable under *** shall be the property of Owner and are hereby assigned to Owner.   
  (f) Contractor and each Subcontractor shall report all accidents and shall assist in every manner reasonable in the investigation of any accident.
Upon request, Contractor and each Subcontractor shall cooperate with Owner and the insurance company designated by Owner in the handling of any claim by securing and giving evidence and obtaining the attendance of witnesses as required for any claim
or suit.      (g) Contractor and each enrolled Subcontractor shall furnish *** with information required to issue any insurance policies to be
provided under this Article. If requested by Owner, Contractor and each enrolled Subcontractor shall attend a meeting held to explain and discuss ***.         
   43      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(h) Contractor shall incorporate a copy of these insurance requirements in each subcontract and shall
require each enrolled Subcontractor to whom these requirements apply to fully comply with these insurance requirements.      (i) Contractor
shall not attempt to exercise any right to cancel *** policy without the express written consent of Owner.      (j) Nothing contained in this
Article 14 will relieve Contractor or its Subcontractors of their respective obligations to exercise due care in the performance of their duties in connection with the Services and to complete the Services in strict compliance with the Agreement.
     14.7  Contractor Responsibility . The provisions of this Article 14 do not modify or change any responsibility of Contractor or any
of its Subcontractors as stated elsewhere in this Agreement. Owner assumes no responsibility for the solvency of any insurer to settle any claim. The insurance requirements herein are separate and apart from and in no way limit Contractor s
indemnity obligations as stated in Article 13 of this Agreement. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the liabilities of Contractor under this Agreement shall survive and not be terminated, reduced or otherwise limited by any
expiration or termination of Contractor s insurance coverages.       

15.  
   PROJECT CREDIT SUPPORT         15.1 ***.       

(a)  
  ***         

(b)  
  ***         

(c)  
  ***         

(d)  
  ***        15.2  Cooperation with Owner Financing .
     (a) Contractor shall promptly provide to Owner (i) all cooperation that Owner reasonably requests to make
presentations to potential Financial Institutions and their consultants and representatives and to respond to any questions or requirements asked or imposed by any Financial Institutions, and (ii) all cooperation that Owner reasonably requests
with respect to Financial Institutions and their consultants and representatives, including developing and providing information regarding the Facility (to the extent available to Contractor) and this Agreement. At the request of Owner, Contractor
shall provide the Financial Institutions and their consultants and representatives with reasonable access to, and will permit them to review, the Documentation, subject to their execution of a confidentiality agreement substantially in the form of
Attachment No. 2 to the Confidentiality Agreement. In addition, Contractor shall provide the Financial Institutions with the right to receive  
       
   44      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

and render performance and to give reasonable time to cure defaults by Owner, on behalf of Owner, under this Agreement.      (b) Owner shall be entitled to grant a security interest or other lien in this Agreement to one or more Financial Institutions as security
for financing for the Project. Contractor also shall enter into a consent to assignment with the Financial Institutions regarding this Agreement in a customary form. Owner will be entitled to assign, and Contractor shall ensure that the relevant
instruments permit the assignment of, the benefit of any *** or other financial instrument at any time to the Financial Institutions to secure the obligations of Owner under the financing for the Project without the consent of Contractor or the
issuer of such *** or other financial instrument being required.       

16.  
   LIMITATION OF LIABILITY         16.1  Liability Cap .
CONTRACTOR S AGGREGATE LIABILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT EXCEED ***.      16.2  No Consequential Damages . NEITHER OWNER NOR
CONTRACTOR WILL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER FOR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES. THIS SECTION 16.2 SHALL NOT BE INTERPRETED TO LIMIT, AND THE PARTIES AGREE THAT THIS SECTION 16.2 DOES NOT LIMIT, CONTRACTOR S RIGHT TO COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT. IN ADDITION, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT THIS SECTION 16.2 SHALL NOT BE CONSTRUED TO, AND IS NOT INTENDED TO, LIMIT OR RELIEVE EITHER PARTY OF ITS EXPRESS, LIMITED OBLIGATIONS UNDER ARTICLE 13. THE WAIVERS AND DISCLAIMERS OF LIABILITY,
RELEASES FROM LIABILITY, LIMITATIONS AND APPORTIONMENTS OF LIABILITY AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY PROVISIONS AND DEFENSE AND INDEMNITY OBLIGATIONS EXPRESSED THROUGHOUT THIS AGREEMENT SHALL APPLY EVEN IN THE EVENT OF THE FAULT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,
BREACH OF CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE OF THE PARTY RELEASED OR WHOSE LIABILITY IS WAIVED, DISCLAIMED, LIMITED, APPORTIONED OR FIXED BY SUCH EXCLUSIVE REMEDY PROVISIONS, OR WHO IS DEFENDED OR INDEMNIFIED. TO THE EXTENT A PARTY IS DEFENDED OR INDEMNIFIED
HEREUNDER WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM, SUCH PARTY MAY NOT PURSUE A CLAIM AGAINST THE DEFENDING OR INDEMNIFYING PARTY S AFFILIATES OR SUBCONTRACTORS OR THEIR RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS FOR THE SAME CLAIM.       
    17.1  Liens . Contractor shall keep the
Facility, the Site, the Owner Equipment, the GE Equipment and any other structure or equipment at the Site free from all Liens and shall promptly notify Owner of any such Liens.      17.2  Discharge or Bond . Contractor shall take prompt steps to discharge or bond any Lien. If Contractor fails to so discharge or promptly bond any
Lien, Owner shall have the  
       
   45      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

right, upon notifying Contractor in writing and providing Contractor reasonable time to discharge or bond the Lien, to take any and all reasonable actions
and steps to satisfy, defend, settle or otherwise remove the Lien at Contractor s expense, including reasonable attorneys  fees, costs and expenses. Owner shall have the right to deduct and offset any expenses so incurred from any payment
due, or which may become due, to Contractor under this Agreement or to recover those expenses from Contractor. Contractor shall have the right to contest any Lien, provided it first must provide to the lienholder, a court or other third Person, as
applicable, a bond or other assurances of payment necessary to remove the Lien in accordance with the Laws of the State.       

18.  
   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY         18.1  Delivery of
Documentation . Contractor shall deliver to Owner complete and accurate copies (in physical and electronic format) of all Documentation required hereunder to be prepared or delivered, or otherwise agreed by the Parties to be delivered by
Contractor, in accordance with the following:      (a) Documentation for which a specific delivery date or delivery schedule is
set forth herein or in the Scope Book, including within the Contractor EP Schedule and Project Schedule, shall be delivered in accordance with such delivery date or delivery schedule;      (b) Documentation prepared in conjunction with the Services necessary for the performance of a specific task, procedure or test for which
a specific delivery date or delivery schedule is not set forth herein, in the Scope Book or in the Contractor EP Schedule and Project Schedule shall be delivered to Owner a reasonable period of time (as determined by Owner) prior to the performance
of such task, procedure or test necessary to support the needs of the Project;      (c) All final,  as-built 
Documentation (in hard copy and electronic formats (non-native files)) as provided in Reference 3-10 of Part I of the Scope Book, including all drawings of buildings, structures, plants, operating equipment and ancillary plant equipment, shall be
delivered no later than Final Completion; and      (d) Technical Data shall be delivered to Owner at Final Completion, and to be
used in future modifications at Owner s sole risk (and provided for such purpose  AS IS  without warranty by Contractor).      All such
Documentation shall include any corrections, improvements, and enhancements to such Documentation that were incorporated during the construction of the Facility and shall be of an  as-built  status upon Final Completion. Contractor shall
provide Owner during the Warranty Period any corrections to errors discovered by Contractor or Owner in the Documentation (other than any Technical Data) subsequent to Final Completion. Contractor shall promptly notify Owner of the discovery of any
such errors. In the event that this Agreement is terminated: by Owner pursuant to  Section 19.2(a) ; by Contractor or Owner pursuant to  Section 19.6;  or by Owner pursuant to  Section 19.5(a)  or  19.5(b)  and,
with respect to termination pursuant to  Section 19.5(b) , Owner pays the License Continuation Fee as  
       
   46      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

described in  Section 19.5(c)(ii) , then Contractor shall deliver to Owner within ten (10) Days after such termination all then existing
Documentation, including drafts thereof, in hard copy and electronic formats reasonably requested by Owner, provided that such Documentation and the intellectual property rights resulting from the Services or related to or described in the
Documentation shall continue to be subject to the Confidentiality Agreement and this Article. The media on which Documentation is provided to Owner will be free of viruses and other harmful or malicious code or programming and will be capable of
conveying the information contained therein correctly.      18.2  Grant of Intellectual Property License . Contractor hereby grants to
Owner, its Affiliates and each Permitted User an irrevocable (subject to the last sentence of this Section 18.2), perpetual, royalty-free, fully paid up nonexclusive license to (a) reproduce, distribute, display, perform, create derivative
works from and otherwise use the Documentation and (b) practice, make, exercise and otherwise use all intellectual property rights resulting from the Services or related to or described in the Documentation, in each case, solely for the
purposes of Facility design, construction, maintenance, operation (for electricity generation, byproduct production or otherwise), training, modification, consultation, repair, reconstruction, licensing, simulation, commissioning, decommissioning
and compliance with Laws and otherwise for Owner s internal business purposes (collectively, the   Permitted Purposes  ). To the extent that exercise of the foregoing license rights requires use or disclosure of Confidential
Information as defined in the Confidentiality Agreement, such use or disclosure shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Confidentiality Agreement; provided, however, that restrictions in the Confidentiality Agreement on the use
of Contractor s Confidential Information by Competitors of Contractor prior to the Substantial Completion Date shall cease and terminate in the event that this Agreement is terminated by Owner pursuant to  Section 19.2(a) . In the
event that Owner terminates this Agreement pursuant to  Section 19.5(b)  and fails to pay the License Continuation Fee, if any, by the date such License Continuation Fee is due pursuant to  Section 19.5(c)(ii) , then the
foregoing license shall immediately cease and terminate.      18.3  Grant of Sulfur License . Contractor hereby grants to Owner, its
Affiliates and each Permitted User an irrevocable (subject to the last sentence of this  Section 18.3 ), perpetual, royalty-free (other than the Sulfur License Royalty), and nonexclusive license to practice and exercise the Sulfur
Intellectual Property Rights for the removal of hydrogen sulfide and production of sulfur and otherwise for any of the Permitted Purposes (the   Sulfur License  ). In consideration for the Sulfur License, Owner shall pay to Contractor
a one-time royalty fee in an aggregate amount equal to $*** (the   Sulfur License Royalty  ) in a manner determined by the Parties. To the extent that exercise or practice of the Sulfur License requires use or disclosure of Bechtel
Sulfur Information as defined in the Confidentiality Agreement, such use or disclosure shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Confidentiality Agreement; provided, however, that restrictions in the Confidentiality Agreement on
the use of Bechtel Sulfur Information by Competitors of Contractor prior to the Substantial Completion Date shall cease and terminate in the event that this Agreement is terminated by Owner pursuant to  Section 19.2(a) . In the event that
Owner terminates this Agreement and fails to pay the Sulfur License Royalty (to the extent not then paid) within *** following the date of such termination, then the Sulfur License shall cease and terminate.         
   47      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

18.4  Limitations . Contractor reserves all intellectual property rights not set forth herein. Owner
shall not remove any patent, copyright or trademark notice from the Documentation. Owner hereby grants to Contractor an irrevocable, non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license under Sulfur Licensee Improvements and Sulfur Jointly Developed
Improvements to use Sulfur Licensee Improvements and Sulfur Jointly Developed Improvements in the Claus sulfur recovery, hydrogenation tail gas treating and thermal oxidizing processes or for any other purpose, together with the right to grant
licenses, without accounting therefor to Owner and with no restrictions on sublicensing of any Sulfur Licensee Improvement or any Sulfur Jointly Developed Improvement. Within a reasonable time after request by Contractor, Owner shall make qualified
personnel available to discuss with Contractor whether any material Sulfur Licensee Improvements or Sulfur Jointly Developed Improvements have been created, and, if so, subsequent to such discussions, to document such Sulfur Licensee Improvements or
Sulfur Jointly Developed Improvements. THE SULFUR LICENSEE IMPROVEMENTS AND SULFUR JOINTLY DEVELOPED IMPROVEMENTS ARE PROVIDED  AS IS  AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING ANY
WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY RELATING TO SUCH IMPROVEMENTS ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED BY OWNER. USE OF THE SULFUR LICENSEE IMPROVEMENTS AND SULFUR JOINTLY DEVELOPED IMPROVEMENTS BY CONTRACTOR AND ITS LICENSEES ARE AT CONTRACTOR S SOLE RISK.
CONTRACTOR SHALL INDEMNIFY, DEFEND AND HOLD HARMLESS OWNER AND ITS AFFILIATES FOR AND AGAINST ALL CLAIMS RELATED TO ANY SUCH IMPROVEMENTS MADE AGAINST OWNER OR ITS AFFILIATES BY A PERSON TO WHICH CONTRACTOR OR ITS AFFILIATES HAVE PROVIDED OR
LICENSED ANY SULFUR LICENSEE IMPROVEMENT AND SULFUR JOINTLY DEVELOPED IMPROVEMENT.      18.5  Other Licenses . To the extent that a
license may be required under any patent, copyright, trade secret right or other proprietary right of Contractor or Subcontractor to perform a Permitted Purpose, Contractor hereby grants to Owner, its Affiliates and each Permitted User an
irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free, nonexclusive license to practice and exercise such other patent, copyright, trade secret right and proprietary right for any Permitted Purpose.      18.6  Additional Warranties, Representations and Covenants . Contractor represents, warrants and covenants that, except for the license rights
granted herein and except with respect to any intellectual property owned exclusively by GE contained in such Documentation, Contractor owns all rights, title and interest in and to the Documentation and has the right to grant the license rights
granted by Contractor herein.       

19.  
   DEFAULT; TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION         19.1
 Contractor Events of Default . Contractor shall be in default of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following circumstances (each, a   Contractor Default  ):         
   48      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(a)  Nonpayment . Contractor fails to pay or cause to be paid any amount that is not
subject to a good faith dispute and has become due and payable by it to Owner under this Agreement within *** after receipt of written notice that such amounts are past due;      (b)  Insolvency . Contractor becomes insolvent, or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its
inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; commences any case, proceeding or other action seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, liquidation, dissolution or composition of
itself or its debts or assets, or adopts an arrangement with creditors, under any bankruptcy, moratorium, rearrangement, insolvency, reorganization or similar Law of the United States or any state thereof for the relief of creditors or affecting the
rights or remedies of creditors generally;      (c)  Assignment . Contractor assigns or transfers, or attempts to assign or
transfer, this Agreement or any right or interest herein, except as expressly permitted by this Agreement; and      (d)
 Breach . Contractor breaches any of its material obligations under this Agreement other than those obligations relating to the matters set forth in  Section 19.1(a)  through  (c)  and for which no other remedy is specified
in this Agreement and, if such breach is capable of being cured, Contractor fails to cure such breach within *** after written notice of such breach, provided that such cure period shall be extended to *** after written notice of such breach if such
breach is capable of being cured but not within ***, and Contractor immediately commences to cure such breach and diligently and continually prosecutes measures which are reasonably calculated to cure such breach within such *** period.   
  19.2  Owner Remedies . In the event of a Contractor Default, Owner shall have any or all of the following rights and remedies:      (a)  Termination . Owner may terminate this Agreement immediately by delivery of a notice of termination to Contractor, in which
event, as Owner s sole and exclusive remedy in connection with termination for a Contractor Default, but without prejudice to remedies that Owner may have for breach of any obligations that survive termination, Owner may recover from Contractor
(subject to  Article 16 ) Owner s actual and reasonable costs (at fully burdened rates for internal personnel costs) of replacing Contractor and mobilizing one or more other contractors in order to complete the Services, including
(i) all actual and reasonable costs of preparing requests for proposals, reviewing proposals, selecting and negotiating with contractors and (ii) all actual and reasonable costs for the replacement contractors to mobilize, review and
understand Project-related documents and meet with Project participants in order to get to substantially the same position as Contractor was at the point of termination; and         
   49      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(b)  Other Remedies . Subject to  Article 16  and  Section 24.1 , if
Owner does not terminate this Agreement pursuant to  Section 19.2(a)  as a result of such Contractor Default, Owner shall have any other remedy available at law or in equity.      19.3  Owner Event of Default . Owner shall be in default of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement upon the occurrence of any one or more of the
following circumstances (each, an   Owner Default  ):      (a)  Insolvency . Owner becomes insolvent, or
fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; commences any case, proceeding or other action seeking
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, liquidation, dissolution or composition of itself or its debts or assets, or adopts an arrangement with creditors, under any bankruptcy, moratorium, rearrangement, insolvency, reorganization or similar Law of
the United States or any state thereof for the relief of creditors or affecting the rights or remedies of creditors generally;      (b)  Nonpayment . Owner fails to pay or cause to be paid any amount that is not subject to a good faith dispute and has become due and payable by it to Contractor under this Agreement within *** after receipt of written notice that
such amounts are past due; and      (c)  Material Breach . Unless due to the breach by Contractor of its obligations
hereunder, suspensions of all or substantially all of the Services for a period of *** consecutive Days or a cumulative total of *** Days, in the aggregate, in any *** period.      19.4  Contractor Remedies . In the event of an Owner Default, Contractor shall have any or all of the following rights and remedies:      (a)  Termination . Contractor, without prejudice to remedies that Contractor may have for breach of any obligations that survive
termination, may terminate this Agreement immediately by delivery of a notice of termination to Owner, and such termination shall be deemed as if done for convenience of Owner under  Sections 19.5(b)  and  19.7 ;      (b)  Other Remedies . Subject to  Article 16  and  Section 24.1 , Contractor shall have any other remedy available at
law or in equity.      19.5  Termination Rights .      (a)  Termination for Project Cancellation . Upon prior written notice to Contractor, Owner will be entitled to terminate this
Agreement at any time as a result of Project cancellation by Owner, in which event Owner shall pay the cancellation charges set forth in  Section 19.5(c)(i) .       
  
   50      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(b)  Termination for Convenience . Owner may terminate this Agreement at its
convenience and in its entirety upon prior written notice to Contractor ( provided , that, for a period of *** after such written notice, representatives of each of Contractor and Owner (escalating to executives) shall discuss the issues
prompting such notice and at any time prior to expiration of such 30-Day period, Owner, in its sole discretion, may withdraw such notice), in which event Owner shall pay the cancellation charges set forth in  Section 19.5(c)(ii)  below.
     (c)  Cancellation Charges .      (i) If Owner terminates this Agreement under  Section 19.5(a) , Owner shall pay the termination charges to Contractor, within
thirty (30) Days after the date of such termination, as Contractor s exclusive remedy, which termination charges shall consist of all amounts billed or currently billable by Contractor and due and owing under this Agreement for Services
performed in accordance with this Agreement prior to such termination, ***, and all unavoidable and reasonably incurred demobilization costs, including cancellation charges paid to Subcontractors (collectively, the   Termination
Charges  ). The total amount payable by Owner as a Termination Charge shall be reduced by any rebates, credits or refunds obtained or, if the Termination Charge has been paid, Contractor shall refund to Owner the amount of such rebates,
credits or refunds.      (ii) If Owner terminates this Agreement under  Section 19.5(b) , Owner shall pay to
Contractor, within thirty (30) Days after the date of such termination, as Contractor s exclusive remedy, an amount equal to (A) the Termination Charges calculated as of the date of such termination in the manner set forth in
 Section 19.5(c)(i) ,  plus  (B) if Owner desires to maintain the license granted pursuant to  Section 18.2  following such termination, an amount (which shall not be less than zero) equal to $*** (the amount determined
pursuant to this clause (B), the   License Continuation Fee  ).      19.6  Termination for Force Majeure . Owner or
Contractor may terminate this Agreement in its entirety, and without liability, due to Force Majeure in accordance with the terms of  Article 10 , provided that such termination shall not relieve the terminating Party from its obligation to pay
any then due and owing amounts hereunder.      19.7  Suspension .      (a) Owner may, in its sole discretion, order Contractor to suspend all or any portion of the Services for a period of time as Owner may
request. Contractor shall comply with such order. The suspension shall commence on the Day specified in Owner s written notice to Contractor.      (b) Contractor may suspend the Services without liability upon written notice to Owner after the occurrence of any of the following:         
   51      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

(i)  Nonpayment . Owner fails to pay or cause to be paid any amount that is not
subject to a good faith dispute and has become due and payable by it to Contractor under this Agreement within *** after receipt of written notice that such amounts are past due;      (ii)  Breach . Owner breaches any of its material obligations under this Agreement other than those obligations relating to the
matters set forth in  Section 19.7(b)(i)  above and for which no other remedy is specified in the Agreement and, if such breach is capable of being cured, Owner fails to cure such breach within *** after written notice of such breach,
provided that such cure period shall be extended to *** after written notice of such breach if such breach is capable of being cured but not within ***, and Owner immediately commences to cure such breach and diligently and continually prosecutes
measures which are reasonably calculated to cure such breach within such *** period.      (c) During any suspension pursuant to
 Section 19.7(a)  and  Section 19.7(b)(ii) , Contractor shall, to the extent requested by Owner and as a ***, maintain its Project personnel designated to provide the Services hereunder for a period of six (6) months from
the commencement date of such suspension. During any such suspension, Contractor shall, to the extent requested by Owner and at Owner s direction, (i) mobilize and demobilize Contractor s plant, forces and equipment, (ii) suspend
all rental agreements, if any, and (iii) maintain and protect that portion of the work that has been suspended. Contractor shall be reimbursed on a *** for all *** reasonably incurred and directly related to the performance of such activities
at Owner s request and direction and such other *** in connection with such suspension. Within ten (10) Days (i) with respect to suspension under  Section 19.7(a) , after Owner gives Contractor written notice to resume
Services, or (ii) with respect to suspension under  Section 19.7(b)(ii) , after Contractor acknowledges that Owner has remedied the breach, Contractor shall submit a plan for resumption of the suspended Services. Contractor and Owner
shall discuss and agree upon such plan for resumption of the suspended Services, but in any event Contractor shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to fully resume the Services as soon as reasonably possible. In the event a suspension
pursuant to  Section 19.7(a)  continues for more than ***, Contractor shall have the right to terminate the Agreement.      (d) During any suspension pursuant to  Section 19.7(b)(i) , Contractor shall (i) mobilize and demobilize Contractor s plant, forces and equipment, (ii) suspend all rental agreements, if any, and (iii) maintain
and protect that portion of the work that has been suspended but only to the extent necessary to address any personnel safety issues. Contractor shall be reimbursed on a *** for all *** reasonably incurred and directly related to the performance of
such activities, as well as all other *** reasonably incurred by Contractor in connection with such suspension. Contractor shall resume any suspended Services promptly following the reason for such suspension ceasing and shall use all commercially
reasonable efforts to fully resume the Services as soon as reasonably possible.         
   52      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

20.  
   Intentionally Omitted .         

21.  
   RECORDS AND AUDIT; COOPERATION         21.1
 Intentionally Omitted .      21.2  Accounting Records . Except to the extent applicable Law requires a longer retention, Contractor
shall maintain and shall cause its Subcontractors to maintain complete accounting records relating to all Services performed or provided under this Agreement *** in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, as
set forth in pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (and its predecessors) and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, for a period of three (3) years after the Final Completion Date (or, if Final Completion
does not occur, for three (3) years after termination of this Agreement), except that records relating to Sales and Use Taxes for such items must be retained for four (4) years as specified in  Section 21.5 . Contractor shall
give Owner thirty (30) Days prior written notice before destroying or disposing of any such accounting records and a reasonable opportunity for Owner during such period to make copies of any such documentation.      21.3  Audit Rights .      (a) For verification of ***, Owner or its authorized representative shall have the right and complete access at reasonable times during normal business hours to examine, audit and copy Contractor s records and books related to *** as
is reasonably necessary for Owner to verify such costs. Neither Owner nor its authorized representative shall have the right to audit Contractor s records and books concerning agreed rates, agreed lump sum amounts, agreed allowances or
multipliers. If any audit reveals charges or costs charged to or paid by Owner as costs or fees which are not proper or exceed the rates or amounts permitted hereunder for any such matters, then Owner shall be entitled upon demand for a refund from
Contractor of all such amounts, plus interest thereon from the date of payment by Owner until the date of refund by Contractor at a rate of the lesser of (i) *** or (ii) the maximum rate allowed by applicable Law.      (b) ***      (c)
Any records made available by one Party to the other Party for audit that are proprietary or confidential in nature will be deemed to be Confidential Information of such Party without the need for any marking or other designation and shall be held
by the receiving Party in confidence as provided in the Confidentiality Agreement, except as disclosure may be required in order to pursue an audit claim. Any such audit shall be at the expense of the Party conducting such audit;  provided ,
however, that the Party being audited shall provide reasonable assistance necessary to enable the auditing Party to conduct such audit.         
   53      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

21.4  Cooperation .      (a) Contractor acknowledges that Owner is a regulated entity that is subject to the jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory
Commission (the   IURC  ) and other Government Authorities and, as such, must from time to time provide information about its operations, business and affairs to the IURC and such other Government Authorities. Accordingly, subject to
the procedures set forth in  Section 21.4(b) , Contractor shall promptly and in good faith cooperate with Owner in all requests for information by the IURC or any such Government Authority or by Owner for the IURC or any such Government
Authority, including providing testimony and such assistance and information as Owner may reasonably request and that is available to or can be developed or produced by Contractor relating to Contractor, any Subcontractor, the Services, the CM ISBL
Work, the Facility or the Project in order for Owner to comply with requests from Government Authorities having jurisdiction over it, including the IURC, irrespective of whether compliance with such request is mandated by applicable Laws.
     (b) The IURC has retained the services of Black and Veatch Corporation as its advisor with respect to the Project
(  B V  ). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, in the event that Owner receives an order or other request for information by the IURC or any Government Authority that Owner believes could reasonably be
expected to require the disclosure of Contractor Confidential Information, technical engineering deliverables created by Contractor, Contractor s construction procedures, or Contractor s proprietary estimating and pricing information,
methods and procedures that, in each case, have not been specifically created for the Project, Owner shall promptly provide notice of such order or other request for information to Contractor. Following such notice, Owner and Contractor agree to
meet promptly and in good faith to determine the process that Owner shall use in responding to such request, which may include the implementation of information access procedures necessary to control the access of B V to such Contractor
information, in order to limit and protect the disclosure of such Contractor Information to B V while ensuring that Owner complies with such requests in all respects.      21.5  Sales Tax Records . Contractor shall provide to Owner all information and data Owner may from time to time reasonably request and otherwise fully cooperate with Owner in connection with the reporting of
(a) any Sales Taxes payable with respect to the Services and (b) any assessment, refund claim or proceeding relating to Taxes payable with respect to the Services. Contractor shall require its Subcontractors to provide to Contractor all
information and data Contractor may reasonably request for purposes of complying with the preceding sentence and otherwise fully cooperate with Owner. Contractor shall retain, and shall require Subcontractors to retain, copies of such documentation
and all documentation relating to purchases relating to the Services or the payment of Sales Taxes, if any, for a period of not less than four (4) years from the Final Completion Date (or, if Final Completion does not occur, for four
(4) years after termination of this Agreement). Contractor shall ensure that its contracts with all Subcontractors effectuate the provision of this Section. Contractor s and Owner s obligations under this Section shall survive the
termination,  
       
   54      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

cancellation or expiration of this Agreement for any reason and shall last so long as is necessary to resolve any and all matters regarding Taxes
attributable to the Services; provided, that if Owner requires Contractor to take action under this Section at any time after two (2) years after completion of the particular item of Services, Owner shall reimburse Contractor for all actual and
reasonable expenses Contractor incurs in taking those actions.       
    22.1  General . Contractor shall pay
all Taxes on Contractor s employees, purchases of goods, tools, equipment, supplies and other consumables which are not permanently incorporated into the Facility and which remain the property of the Contractor. Contractor shall also pay all
Taxes attributable to Contractor s and its Subcontractors  employees, construction equipment, temporary buildings and other property used by Contractor and its Subcontractors in its performance of the Services under this Agreement which
are not permanently incorporated into the Facility and which remain the property of the Contractor. Allowance for such Taxes is not included in ***, and Contractor shall pay those Taxes when assessed, without claim against Owner for reimbursement.
Contractor shall impose a similar obligation on all Subcontractors and shall ensure that no Subcontractor shall have any claim against Owner for reimbursement of those Taxes.      22.2  Sales and Use Taxes . For Sales and Use Tax purposes of the State, the Parties agree that this Agreement is a separated contract. Owner shall
pay directly when due and payable all Sales and Use Taxes. Owner shall provide to Contractor an Indiana Direct Pay Permit and ST-105 Certificate. If an audit by a Government Authority determines that any additional Sales and Use Taxes are due from
Contractor, then Owner shall reimburse Contractor for such Sales and Use Taxes promptly upon receipt of an invoice for such Sales and Use Taxes.      22.3  Tax Indemnification . Contractor shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Owner and its Affiliates from and against all claims by any Government Authority claiming Taxes based upon gross receipts or on the income of Contractor,
its Subcontractors or their respective employees, agents or representatives derived from any payment for the Services made to or earned by such Persons under the Agreement. If required by Law or any Government Authority, Owner shall have the right
to withhold amounts, at the withholding rate specified by Law, from payments due from Owner to Contractor hereunder, and any amount so withheld shall be credited against any payment otherwise owing by Owner to Contractor under the Agreement.
     22.4  Cooperation and Assistance . Contractor shall promptly notify Owner upon receipt by Contractor of any proposed tax audits or
tax assessments relating to the Services. Contractor shall assist and cooperate with Owner s efforts to minimize potential tax liability by providing records and other necessary documentation to appropriate authorities in response to such
proposed tax audits or tax assessments.      22.5  Tax Protests and Appeals . If it elects to do so, Owner shall be entitled to protest,
defend or appeal in the name of Contractor or a Subcontractor, as the case may be, in any and all administrative and judicial proceedings: (a) the assessment of any Taxes or (b) the  
       
   55      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

denial of any refund claim filed. Should Owner elect to protest or appeal any assessment or denial, Contractor shall reasonably cooperate and assist as
necessary with such protest or appeal. The Parties agree that any such protest or appeal shall be controlled by Owner, including choice of counsel, with Owner bearing all costs, fees and expenses in furtherance of the protest or appeal. Any and all
refunds of Taxes and interest resulting from any protest or appeal shall be solely for the account of Owner. Contractor shall impose a similar obligation in its agreements with Subcontractors.      22.6  Survival . Contractor s and Owner s obligations under this  Article 22  shall survive the termination or expiration of the
Agreement for any reason and shall last so long as necessary to resolve any and all matters regarding Taxes attributable to the Services.       
    23.1  Disputes . The
Parties hereby agree to submit any dispute or other controversy arising out of or relating to this Agreement, including, with respect to the arbitrability, negotiation, invalidity, termination, or breach thereof, (each a   Dispute  )
to resolution in accordance with this  Article 23 .      23.2  Meeting Regarding Dispute . In the event of a Dispute, the Parties
shall first attempt in good faith to settle and resolve such Dispute in accordance with the provisions of this  Section 23.2 . A Party asserting the existence of a Dispute shall notify the other Party of the Dispute in writing setting
forth the nature of the Dispute in reasonable detail. Within *** Days after delivery of any such notice by one Party to the other Party regarding a Dispute, the Parties shall meet at a mutually agreed time and place to attempt, with diligence and
good faith, to resolve and settle such Dispute (  Dispute Resolution Meeting  ). In the event the Parties are unable to resolve the Dispute, either Party may request that the matter be referred to non-binding mediation. The Parties
agree to such non-binding mediation in Indianapolis, Indiana at a mutually agreed upon time and place with a mutually agreed neutral mediator, following procedures agreed to by the Parties or set by the mediator. Should mutual resolution and
settlement not be obtained within *** Days after the Dispute Resolution Meeting (or should no such meeting take place within such *** Day period), then either Party may, by notice to the other Party, submit the Dispute to non-administered binding
arbitration in Indianapolis, Indiana, in accordance with the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution s Rules for Non-Administered Arbitration (the   CPR Rules  ) and the provisions of this  Article
23 . Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof in accordance with the remaining provisions of this  Article 23 . Should the Parties agree to engage in mediation, such
proceeding shall not affect the timing or process for arbitration.      23.3  Initiation of Binding Arbitration and Selection of
Arbitrators . The Party desiring arbitration shall so notify the other Party, identifying in reasonable detail the Dispute to be arbitrated and the relief sought and file notice of arbitration in accordance with the CPR Rules. Arbitration
hereunder shall be before *** selected in accordance with the CPR Rules and qualified in the field most relevant to the issues raised in the Dispute. In the event that any Party s claim exceeds ***, exclusive of interest, the Dispute shall be
heard and  
       
   56      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

determined by a three-person panel of neutral arbitrators selected in accordance with the CPR Rules and qualified in the field most relevant to the issues
raised in the Dispute.      23.4  Arbitration Procedures . The arbitrator(s) shall conduct a hearing no later than ninety (90) Days
after submission of the matter to arbitration (or such other timeframe as mutually agreed by the Parties), and a decision shall be rendered by the arbitrator(s) within thirty (30) Days of the hearing. In connection with any Dispute, the Parties
shall have such rights to discovery, including depositions, as the arbitrator(s) may permit, provided that, where the amount in controversy with respect to such Dispute is equal to or more than $***, the Parties shall have the rights to discovery
set forth in Rules 26 through 36 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (or, to the extent that the proceeding involves only the Parties, in accordance with such rules of discovery as mutually agreed by the Parties). Any dispute concerning
discovery will be resolved by the arbitrator(s). Each Party will, upon the written request of the other Party, promptly provide the other with copies of documents on which the requesting Party may rely in support of a claim or defense or which are
relevant to the issues raised in the Dispute. At the hearing, the Parties shall present such evidence and witnesses as they may choose, with or without counsel. Adherence to formal rules of evidence shall not be required but the arbitrator(s) shall
consider any evidence and testimony that it determines to be relevant, in accordance with procedures that it determines to be appropriate. Any award entered in arbitration shall be made by a written opinion stating the reasons for the award made.
     23.5  Consolidation . Owner, in its sole discretion, shall have the option at any time to (a) join Contractor to any arbitration
or dispute that involves Owner and any Person providing services to Owner in connection with the Project or (b) consolidate any arbitration or Dispute arising hereunder with any existing arbitration, proceeding or other similar matter which
involves Owner and any Person providing services to Owner in connection with the Project, and Contractor hereby consents to any such joinder or consolidation. If Owner and Contractor are involved in an arbitration or dispute in connection with the
Project, and Contractor reasonably believes that a third party (including GE, a Managed Vendor or a Subcontractor) is substantially involved in a common question of fact or such third party s presence is necessary if complete relief is to be
afforded and/or inconsistent decisions are to be avoided, then, Contractor shall promptly provide notice thereof to Owner requesting that such third party be consolidated into such arbitration or dispute. If Owner, in its sole discretion, agrees to
grant such request, the Parties will use their respective reasonable efforts to consolidate such third party into the applicable arbitration or dispute, making such accommodating adjustments as are fair and appropriate to accommodate additional
parties; provided, however, that such third party has consented to such inclusion and agrees to be bound by the award of the arbitrators.      23.6  Enforcement.  This submission and agreement to arbitrate shall be specifically enforceable. Arbitration may proceed in the absence of a Party if notice of the proceedings has been given to such Party in accordance herewith. The
Parties agree to abide by all awards rendered in such proceedings. During the pendency of a Dispute, each Party shall continue to perform all of its respective obligations under this Agreement. If the Dispute concerns a Party s cessation of
performance under this Agreement, then that Party shall not be deemed in default under the terms of this Agreement with respect to the specific matter that is the subject  
       
   57      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

of the Dispute if that Party ceased performance in what it considered in good faith to be compliant with the terms of this Agreement, during the pendency of
the Dispute.      23.7   Fees  and  Costs .  Each  Party  shall  bear  its  own  costs
 and  expenses  related  to  the  arbitration  and  mediation. The arbitrator s(s ) fees and mediators fees and other administrative costs of the arbitration and the mediation shall be borne
equally by the Parties.      23.8  Interim Relief . Either Party may apply to the arbitrator(s) seeking injunctive relief until the
arbitration award is rendered or the controversy is otherwise resolved. Either Party may, without waiving any remedy under this Agreement, seek from any court having jurisdiction any interim or provisional relief that is necessary to protect the
rights or property of that Party, pending the establishment of the arbitral tribunal.      23.9  Award . The arbitrator(s) will have no
authority to award any damages precluded by  Article 16 .      23.10  Confidentiality . Except as may be required by applicable Law,
each Party shall treat the existence, content or results of any settlement discussion pursuant to this  Article 23  or arbitration as confidential information of the other Party in accordance with the Confidentiality Agreement and shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to cause any arbitrator(s) to keep such information confidential.       

24.  
   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS         24.1  Remedies .
Subject to  Section 12.6 ,  Article 16 ,  Section 19.2(a) ,  Exhibit J  and any other provision of the Agreement pursuant to which an exclusive remedy is expressly provided, the rights and remedies available hereunder
will be in addition to and not in limitation of any rights and remedies otherwise imposed or available at law or in equity.      24.2
 Governing Laws . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of the State, without reference to its conflict of laws principles.      24.3  Entire Agreement . This Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement represent the entire agreement between Owner and Contractor with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof, and supersede all prior
negotiations, binding documents, representations and agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof, including the Term Sheet, the Initial TSAs and the Recent TSA. This Agreement may be amended or modified
only by a written instrument duly executed by each of the Parties.      24.4  Successors and Assigns.  Neither this Agreement nor any
right, interest or obligation hereunder may be assigned by Contractor without the prior written consent of Owner, and any attempt to do so shall be void, except that the whole of this Agreement may be assigned by Contractor upon prior written notice
to Owner to a parent company or a wholly-owned Affiliate, provided that Contractor shall not be relieved of any of its obligations hereunder and provided that such assignee demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of Owner that it is capable of
fulfilling all of the obligations of Contractor  
       
   58      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

hereunder, including the grant of the licenses provided herein. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement is binding upon, inures to the benefit of
and is enforceable by the Parties and their respective successors and assigns. Owner may assign this Agreement or any benefit, interest, right or cause of action arising under this Agreement to any Person, provided that, if such assignment occurs
prior to payment of the Final Payment Invoice, then such assignment shall not relieve Owner of any of its obligations hereunder.      24.5
 No Third Party Beneficiaries . Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement are intended for the sole benefit of Owner and Contractor, and there are no third party beneficiaries. No reference herein to any
other Person shall restrict in any way the ability of the Parties to amend or modify this Agreement from time to time in their sole and absolute discretion. Neither this Agreement nor anything contained herein shall be construed to create a
contractual relationship of any kind between: (a) Contractor and any other contractor or any subcontractor of any such other contractor; (b) Contractor and any Managed Vendor; (c) Contractor and GE; or (d) any person or entities
other than Owner and Contractor, except as expressly provided in this Agreement (Owner Indemnitees and Contractor Indemnitees are intended third party beneficiaries under  Article 13 ).      24.6  No Waiver . No course of dealing or failure of Owner or Contractor to enforce strictly any term, right or condition of this Agreement shall be
construed as a waiver of that term, right or condition. No express waiver of any term, right or condition of this Agreement shall operate as a waiver of any other term, right or condition.      24.7  Survival .  Article 13  (Indemnification),  Article 16  (Limitation of Liability),  Article 18  (Intellectual Property),
 Article 22  (Taxes),  Article 23  (Dispute Resolution),  Article 24  (Miscellaneous Provisions) and all other Sections providing for indemnification or limitation of or protection against liability of either Party shall survive the
termination, cancellation, or expiration of this Agreement.      24.8  Severability . If any provision of this Agreement or the
application of this Agreement to any Person or circumstance shall to any extent be held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction or arbitrators under  Article 23 , then (i) the remainder of this Agreement and the
application of that provision to Persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is specifically held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected, and every remaining provision of this Agreement shall be valid and binding to the fullest
extent permitted by Laws, and (ii) a suitable and equitable provision shall be substituted for such invalid or unenforceable provision in order to carry out, so far as may be valid and enforceable, the intent and purpose of such invalid or
unenforceable provision.      24.9  Notices . Any notices, demands or other communication to be sent or given hereunder by either Party
shall in every case be in writing and shall be deemed properly served if (a) delivered personally to the recipient, (b) sent to the recipient by reputable express courier service (charges paid) or (c) mailed to the recipient by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested and postage paid. Date of service of such notice shall be (i) the date such notice is personally delivered, (ii) three (3) Business Days after the date of mailing if sent by
certified or registered mail, or (iii) one (1) Business Day after the date of delivery to  
       
   59      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

the overnight courier if sent by overnight courier. Such notices, demands and other communications shall be sent to the addresses indicated below or such
other address or to the attention of such other person as the recipient has indicated by prior written notice to the sending party in accordance with this Section:       
    24.10  Vienna Convention . The Parties hereby expressly agree to exclude and disclaim the
application of the provisions of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (also referred to as the Vienna Convention), and any successor convention or legislation, to this Agreement.      24.11  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed by the Parties in multiple counterparts and shall be effective as of the date set forth above
when each Party shall have executed and delivered a counterpart hereof, whether or not the same counterpart is executed and delivered by each Party. When so executed and delivered, each such counterpart shall be deemed an original and all such
counterparts shall be deemed one and the same document. Transmission of images of signed signature pages by facsimile, e-mail or other electronic means shall have the same effect as the delivery of manually signed documents in person.         
   60      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

24.12  Confidentiality . Use and disclosure of Confidential Information (as defined in the
Confidentiality Agreement) in the performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the Confidentiality Agreement.      24.13  Business
Practices . Contractor and its representatives have not made any payment, and Contractor will not, and Contractor will direct its employees, agents, and Subcontractors, and their employees or agents to not, make any payment to any government
official (including any officer or employee of any Government Authority) to influence his, her, or its decision or to gain any other advantage for Owner or Contractor in connection with the Services to be performed hereunder. None of Contractor, its
Subcontractors, nor any of their employees or agents shall take any action that violates the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any similar applicable Law. Contractor shall immediately notify Owner of any violation of this covenant.
Owner and its representatives have not made any payment, and Owner will not, and Owner will direct its employees, agents, and their employees or agents to not, make any payment to any government official (including any officer or employee of any
Government Authority) to influence his, her, or its decision or to gain any other advantage for Contractor or Owner in connection with the Services to be performed hereunder. Neither Owner nor any of its employees or agents shall take any action
that violates the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any similar applicable Law. Owner shall immediately notify Contractor of any violation of this covenant.      24.14  Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing . Without limiting any rights and obligations as specifically set forth herein, each of the Parties agrees that the obligation of good faith and fair dealing, as
applied to contracts governed by the laws of the State of New York is imposed by this Agreement on such Party in its performance, execution and enforcement of this Agreement. This provision is not a choice of law provision but is definitional for
purposes of the obligation of good faith.         
   61      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , each of the Parties has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized
representative as of the date first above written.       

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA, INC.  

BECHTEL POWER CORPORATION   

By:  
     
    /s/ James L. Turner   

By:  
     
    /s/ Jack Futcher    
 
  Name:  
     
    James L. Turner   

Name:  
     
    Jack Futcher    
 
  Title:  
     
    Pres   COO, USFE G   

Title:  
     
    President    

EXHIBIT A        ***   

EXHIBIT B        EDWARDSPORT      IGCC      Project      Communication and      Management Protocol      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION      Contains confidential information proprietary to Duke Energy and/or Bechtel which may only be used, reproduced, or disclosed outside of such companies pursuant to the
terms of the confidentiality agreement between Duke Energy and Bechtel.   

1. PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN       The description of the Scope of Services provided by Contractor is contained in the Project Scope Book attached as Exhibit A to the Agreement. The purpose of this Project Communication and Management Protocol (  CM
Protocol  ) is to further delineate the division of responsibilities identified in the organization chart attached as Exhibit F to the Agreement, generally describe the roles and responsibilities of the Shared Services team and establish an
overall communications protocol.      When used in this CM Protocol, capitalized terms are intended to have the same meaning as defined in the Agreement.
      1.1. Organization       The Owner will be the overall
program manager for the Project and retain control of the Site. Contractor has clear boundaries for its scope of work and for the construction area Contractor is managing. The integrated Owner/Contractor organization chart can be found in Exhibit F
to the Agreement which depicts both the home office and Site organizations.       1.1.1. Contractor Project Organization       Contractor will lead the team that is responsible for the coordination and execution of the CM ISBL Work. Owner personnel supporting these activities will function as
Borrowed Employees. The ISBL Construction Manager will be an integral participant in the overall Site Management Team (defined below).      The
Contractor s Scope of Services is organized along Contractor s traditional EPCM large project structure which will be integrated into Owner s overall Project organization. In general, engineering and procurement activities will be
performed in the Houston office for the gasification island and in the Frederick office for the power island. Construction will be performed on a construction management basis using qualified local, regional, and national contractors. Start up
activities are to be performed by an Owner-led integrated field site organization. The key Contractor positions (and general description of authority and roles) are as follows:      PROJECT DIRECTOR (***)       

Overall signature authority for all aspects of the Project (as it relates to CM ISBL Work)          

Copied on correspondence as indicated in Section 1.2.1 of this CM Protocol and in accordance with a communications and distribution matrix currently being
developed by the Parties          

Signature authority for Agreement requirements (such as Change Orders) and all other issues relating to the Agreement            
   3      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

PROJECT MANAGER (***)       

Responsible for overall CM ISBL Work and day-to-day project execution with respect to the CM ISBL Work          

Primary contact for all Agreement requirements          

Signature authority for Agreement requirements (such as Change Orders)          

Management of the Agreement          

Overall signature authority for all aspects of the Project (as it relates to CM ISBL Work)          

Copied on correspondence as indicated in Section 1.2.1 of this CM Protocol and in accordance with a communications and distribution matrix currently being
developed by the Parties          

Liaison for Borrowed Employees         PROJECT ENGINEERS
(***)       

Responsible to Project Manager for day-to-day project technical execution for respective areas          

Primary contact for Engineering Services matters with Owner, Managed Vendors, and GE          

Contact (with Project Manager) for technical requirements related to Agreement          

Copied on all correspondence ( in accordance with a communications and distribution matrix currently being developed by the Parties) relating to technical matters
with Owner, Managed Vendors and GE         PROJECT PROCUREMENT MANAGER (***)       

Responsible to Project Manager for day-to-day project procurement activities          

Primary contact for Procurement Services matters with Owner and Managed Vendors          

Contact (with Project Manager) for Procurement Services requirements related to Agreement          

Copied on all correspondence (in accordance with a communications and distribution matrix currently being developed by the Parties ) relating to procurement matters
with Owner and Managed Vendors         PROJECT CONTRACTS MANAGER (***)       

Responsible to Project Manager for day-to-day contracts activities          

Primary contact for Owner Service Contracts matters with Owner and Managed Vendors          

Contact (with Project Manager) for Owner Service Contracts requirements related to Agreement          

Copied on all correspondence ( in accordance with a communications and distribution matrix currently being developed by the Parties) relating to Owner Service
Contracts matters with Owner and Managed Vendors         ISBL CONSTRUCTION MANAGER (***)       

Responsible to Project Manager for day-to-day CM ISBL Work at Site          
  
   4      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Primary interface with Owner and Owner s Project Director-Project Execution, Managed Vendors and GE for CM ISBL Work at Site          

Contact (with Project Manager) for CM ISBL Work requirements related to Agreement          

Copied on all correspondence ( in accordance with a communications and distribution matrix currently being developed by the Parties) relating to CM ISBL Work with
Owner, Managed Vendors and GE          1.1.2 Owner Project Organization       Owner s Project General Manager will have responsibility for the overall Project. Owner s Project Director   Project Execution will have overall authority
to direct activities at the Site. Owner will lead the OSBL construction team, which is responsible for the coordination and execution of the OSBL Work (as defined in Part I Section 2.3 of the Scope Book). Contractor personnel supporting these
functions will serve as Borrowed Employees. The OSBL Construction Manager will be an integral participant in the overall Site Management Team. Owner will commission and start-up the Facility. The key Owner positions (and general description of
authority and roles) are as follows:      VICE PRESIDENT MAJOR PROJECTS (***):       

Signature authority for Agreement requirements (such as Change Orders) and all other issues relating to the Agreement          

Overall signature authority for all aspects of the Project         PROJECT GENERAL MANAGER (***):       

Responsible for overall Project          

Primary contact for the Agreement          

Signature authority for Agreement requirements (such as Change Orders) and all other issues relating to the Agreement          

Management of the Agreement          

Overall signature authority for all aspects of the Project          

Copied on correspondence as indicated in Section 1.2.1 of this CM Protocol and in accordance with a communications and distribution matrix currently being
developed by the Parties          

Liaison for Borrowed Employees         PROJECT
DIRECTOR-ENGINEERING   TECHNICAL (***):       

Signature authority for the following areas:          

Engineering Services          

Procurement Services for Owner Equipment until delivered to the Site          

Engineering and specifications          

Contract administration of Owner Equipment          

All expediting, quality assurance and technical evaluation          

Traffic and logistics of Owner Equipment          

Invoice approval          

Owner Services - Bechtel home office technical specifications            
   5      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

PROJECT DIRECTOR-PROJECT EXECUTION (***)       

Signature authority for the following areas:          

CM ISBL Work          

Owner Services          

Procurement of all Owner Services          

Contract administration of Owner Services          

Invoice approval          

Overall management of Site execution          

Shared Services          

Management of all Shared Services Teams          

Management of all Site services          

OSBL Work          

Administrative issues relating to Borrowed Employees         MANAGING DIRECTOR   SOURCING   MATERIALS MANAGEMENT (***)       

Approval of all bidders          

Approval of bid documents prior to submittal to bidders          

Approval of any changes to pro forma terms          

Approval of any variations to the bid documents          

Final award          1.1.3 Shared
Services Team       The Shared Services team will be responsible for supporting both Construction Managers (ISBL and OSBL). Lead positions in the Shared
Services team will be responsible for developing and implementing the appropriate strategy for their respective functional area across the Project as well as efficient utilization of resources within the functional area. Owner will also appoint
personnel in a  shadow role  within the Shared Services team. Personnel in such  shadow role  will assist the Project in a program oversight role, auditing to insure that the work is completed in a manner consistent with the
Agreement, this CM Protocol, and Owner policies, as applicable.      Owner will manage the Shared Services which consist of the following functions:

Quality Assurance          

Project Support Services (Cost/Document Control/IT Support)          

Commissioning and Start Up          

Environmental Safety and Health          

Contract Management          

Site Materials Management          

Project Schedule Management          Quality Assurance
         
   6      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

The Quality Assurance Team will perform and manage quality activities at the Site. The Quality Assurance Team will verify and monitor all contractors 
(including Managed Vendors  and GE s ) and their subcontractors  adherence with the Quality Assurance Plan. Quality assurance audits supplemented with surveillances will be conducted by the Quality Assurance Team to verify the
Project s conformance to approved policies, procedures and instructions, including: review and status of contractor processes and procedures, independent verification of work being performed, and ensuring completed work is fully compliant with
the design requirements; provided, however, that the day-to-day quality surveillances of the CM ISBL Work will be performed by Contractor. All inspections will be documented, and corrective work, if any, will be authorized by appropriate personnel.
The key position within the Quality Assurance Team is:           Quality Program Coordinator  :       

Maintains and verifies implementation of the Quality Assurance Plan for the Project. Manages and coordinates the Quality Assurance Plan activities associated with
one or more functions in engineering, environmental, procurement, construction, testing, and operations. Advises Site Management Team of Project quality assurance problems and progress.         The Quality Program Coordinator will designate at least one individual from the Quality Assurance Team to take day-to-day direction from the ISBL Construction Manager.
      Project Support Services (Cost/Document Control/IT Support)       The Project Support Services Team will perform Site services for cost engineering, document control and IT support as follows:       Cost Engineering       Responsible for the overall cost control, cost analysis, performance, and estimating
functions for the Site.       Document Control       Responsible for the overall management and control of design documents for the Site.       IT Support       Responsible for the
overall information technology support for the Site, including equipment purchase and maintenance and system set-up.      The key position within the Project
Support Services Team is:        Project Support Services Manager :        
  
   7      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Directs cost estimating, analysis, controls, maintenance, monitoring, and impact identification, and supports recovery plan development activities. Directs the
preparation and presentation of Project estimates and cost forecasts. Supports Project organizational and administrative activities. Provides generally non-routine cost engineering/planning. Identifies, analyzes, and provides solutions to cost
engineering problems. Directs IT support, IT equipment purchase and maintenance, and systems setup. Directs field document controls systems and processes. Advises Site Management Team of Project Support Services problems and progress.
        The Project Support Services Manager will designate at least one individual from the Project Support Services Team to take day-to-day
direction from the ISBL Construction Manager.       Commissioning and Start Up        

The Commissioning and Startup Team will be responsible for developing and implementing a strategy for the overall commissioning and startup of the entire Facility.

Contractor will supply startup and operations personnel to the Commissioning and Startup Team as Borrowed Employees. The Contractor ISBL Systems Coordinator will
mobilize to the Site to support commissioning, startup and operation activities of the CM ISBL Work.         The key position within the
Commissioning and Start Up Team is:        Commissioning/Startup Manager         

Implements the strategy for the overall commissioning and startup of the entire Facility and manages and supervises all commissioning/startup activities and
personnel (including those activities and startup personnel of Managed Vendors and GE) on the Project. Plans and directs startup assignments on the Project. Technical responsibility for organizing, executing, and coordinating these assignments.
Makes day-to-day decisions within assigned area or project and makes recommendations to department or Project management regarding policy and procedure. Responsible for review of Project designs and recommendation of changes to design so that
Project is safe and operable. Advises Site Management Team of commissioning and start up problems and progress.          Environmental, Safety
and Health (ES H)        

The Site ES H Team is responsible for the implementation, management and enforcement of the Environmental, Safety and Health Plan for the Site; provided,
however, that the day-to-day ES H oversight of the CM ISBL Work will be performed by Contractor.         The key position in the ES H
Team is:         
   8      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

ES H Manager         

Supervises the ES H functions for the entire Project and interfaces with the Owner s Senior Safety Professional on a periodic basis to assure common
agreement on the various safety initiatives and hazard control methods. Advises Site Management Team of ES H problems and progress.         The ES H Manager will designate at least one individual from the ES H Team to take day-to-day direction from the ISBL Construction Manager.       Contract Management       The Contract Management Team will administer contracts for the Site. Responsibilities include management of
correspondence with contractors (including Managed Vendors), managing contractor change requests, evaluating proposed changes, preparing pre-mobilization checklists, and contract closeout.      The key position within the Contract Management Team is:        Contracts
Manager         

Responsible for administering contracts at the Site including implementation of the Owner Project Group work process procedures and automated contract management
systems. Responsible for the training of personnel assigned to support contract administration. Advises Site Management Team of contracts problems and progress.         The Contracts Manager will designate at least one individual from the Contract Management Team to take day-to-day direction from the ISBL Construction Manager.       Site Materials Management       The Materials Management Team is
responsible for materials management for the Site including furnishing current status of equipment and material at the Site and will act as liaison between Site and off Site procurement in coordination of these efforts. The Materials Management Team
will be responsible for the receipt inspection; resolution of unsatisfactory, overage, shortage, and damage reports; Site materials management; Site traffic and logistics management; storage and maintenance; inventory control; and issuance of
equipment and materials to contractors. The Materials Management Team will also be responsible for procurement of miscellaneous material not included on the Material Assignment Schedule.      The key position within the Materials Management Team is:        Director of Materials Management :          
   9      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Leads the Project and field materials management activities to ensure the overall organizational effectiveness among all functions responsible for the materials
management process. Establishes policy and monitors and approves the development of automated and manual material management and inventory control systems. Plans, directs, coordinates, and monitors personnel actions for material management staff.
Advises Site Management Team of material management problems and progress.         The Director of Materials Management will designate at least
one individual from the Materials Management Team to take day-to-day direction from the ISBL Construction Manager.       Project Schedule Management  

The Project Schedule Management Team is responsible for creating, managing, statusing, and issuing the Project Schedule and other general planning and scheduling
activities at the Site.          

As the construction contract packages are awarded, the Project Schedule Management Team will incorporate contractors  approved level 3 schedules into the
Project Schedule. The Project Schedule Management Team will, on a weekly basis, receive inputs from the Contractor (which consists of the Contractor EP Schedule) and other contractors for integration into the Project Schedule and will subsequently
status the Project Schedule and report status and variances to Contractor and others as applicable. The Project Schedule Management Team will lead the development and coordination of any required recovery plan.          

The key position within the Project Schedule Management Team is:           Project Schedule Manager :        

Supervises the creating, managing, statusing, and issuing of the Project Schedule and other general planning and scheduling activities at the Site. Advises Site
Management Team of Project scheduling problems and progress.         The Project Schedule Manager will designate at least one individual from
the Project Schedule Management Team to take day-to-day direction from the ISBL Construction Manager.       1.1.4. Joint Owner/Contractor
Teams       The Owner and Contractor will establish certain committees and teams to assist with Project management. The Steering Committee will be
established and perform in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. The Parties will also establish a Site Management Team to perform the overall execution, functional, and administrative management of the day-to-day work activities at the Site.
The Site Management Team is an integrated Owner/Contractor leadership team and will consist of the following functional managers:       

Project Director-Project Execution            
   10      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

CM ISBL Construction Manager          

OSBL Construction Manager          

Engineering Manager          

Project Support Services Manager          

Quality Program Coordinator          

ES H Manager          

Commissioning/Start-Up Manager          

Contracts Manager          

Director of Materials Management          

Project Schedule Manager          1.2. Communications
Procedures       1.2.1. COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN OWNER AND CONTRACTOR      Owner will have authority to direct all matters relating to the Project, subject to the communications protocol described below. Owner reserves the right to recommend or direct changes to the order and approach of the
work by defined communications with the authorized Contractor representatives, as described below.      Subject to the final sentence of this paragraph, any
 significant  communications must be delivered in writing by letter, transmitted via the designated Owner eRoom created solely for Contractor and Owner access (the   Duke/Bechtel eRoom  ). Significant communications directed
to Contractor will also be e-mailed to the Contractor s Project Manager with copies to Contractor s Project Director. Significant communications directed to Owner will also be e-mailed to Owner s General Manager with copies to
Owner s Assistant General Counsel. Any formal notices that require service upon another Party (such as a notice of suspension, notice of breach, etc., in each case, a   Formal Notice  ) shall be delivered in accordance with
Section 24.9 of the Agreement.      Significant communications include the following:       

Communications that reflect the position of Owner or Contractor          

Original messages of policies or directives          

Communications that direct changes to the order and approach of Contractor s Services that have a significant actual or potential effect on the cost, design,
quality, safety, schedule, work process and procedures, or performance          

Communications relating to Changes or amendments to the Agreement         All  significant  communications issued by Owner will be issued by the authority of the Project General Manager or designee. All  significant  communications issued by Contractor will be issued by
the authority of the Contractor Project Manager or designee. The Project General  
       
   11      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

Manager and the Contractor Project Manager may designate individuals, in writing, with a signature authority.      All Project communications between Contractor and Owner (other than any Formal Notice or technical data as described below) and all commercial data will be placed
through the Duke/Bechtel eRoom. Contractor is responsible for issuance of commercial and technical data into the designated Owner eRoom.      Technical data
will be placed by Contractor in the designated eRoom created solely for Owner, Contractor and GE access (  3-way eRoom  ) which resides on the Owner s server. This 3-Way eRoom is designed for the communication exchange between
Owner/Contractor/General Electric for certain Contractor and Managed Vendor technical information.      1.2.2. COMMUNICATION TO MANAGED VENDORS
     Contractor will be responsible for the day-to-day communication with Managed Vendors; provided, however that Owner reserves the right to communicate with
all Managed Vendors at its discretion but will to the extent possible coordinate such communication with Contractor. The Contractor will copy the Owner on any of its correspondence with the Managed Vendors by issuing a copy to the Duke/Bechtel
eRoom.      Contractor has established a Managed Vendor eRoom on Contractor s server (  Vendor eRoom  ) for exchanging technical data among
the Managed Vendors for review and issuance. The Managed Vendors will issue all of their respective communications and related data to the Vendor eRoom. Contractor is responsible for issuing technical data received from the Managed Vendors to Owner
into the 3-way eRoom. It is the intent of the Parties that Contractor will handle technical data received from GE in the same manner as technical data received from the Managed Vendors; ***.      1.2.3 SITE COMMUNICATION      In this integrated arrangement
some Owner personnel will directly utilize Contractor applications within the Contractor network. Only Owner personnel authorized by Contractor (and identified as account holders for this purpose) utilizing Contractor managed devices will be allowed
to connect directly to the Contractor network. Several Contractor applications will be made accessible via web based interfaces to authorized Owner personnel external to the Contractor network. Tools such as eRoom, CTI and BecTransfer will be
enabled in this capacity.         
   12      RESTRICTED DUKE-BECHTEL CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION   

EXHIBIT C        ***   

EXHIBIT D        SITE DESCRIPTION      The Site shall mean that area of land located in Sections 1 and 12 of Township 04 North and
Range 08 West in Vigo Township, Knox County, Indiana, and generally west of the West Fork of the White River, north of State Road 358, east of State Road 67, and south of the site of the existing Duke Energy Edwardsport Generating
Station as shown on the attached drawing.   

EXHIBIT E        LIST OF TECHNICAL DATA       

1.  
  Major foundation stress calculations (including electronic files)         

2.  
  Structural steel stress calculations (including electronic files)         

3.  
  Critical pipe stress calculations (including electronic files)         

4.  
  Electrical system calculations, e.g., short circuit, relay coordination, etc. (including electronic files)     

EXHIBIT F        ***   

EXHIBIT G        ***   

EXHIBIT H        ***   

EXHIBIT I        ***   

EXHIBIT J        ***   

EXHIBIT K        ***   

EXHIBIT L     

June 9, 2008      Bechtel Power Corporation      5275 Westview Drive      Frederick, MD 21703      Attn: Amos A. Avidan       

Re:  
   Confidentiality Agreement         Dear Amos:      Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. ( Duke , which term shall, for purposes of this Agreement, include its affiliates and subsidiaries) and Bechtel Power
Corporation ( Bechtel , which term shall, for purposes of this Agreement, include its affiliates and subsidiaries) (Duke and Bechtel each a   Party   and collectively, the   Parties  ), together with the
General Electric Company (  GE  ), previously entered into that certain Amended and Restated Confidentiality Agreement dated as of July 26, 2007 (the   Existing Confidentiality Agreement  ), relating to disclosure
of confidential information in connection with their respective preliminary work on the Edwardsport integrated gasification combined cycle facility (the   Project  ). Further, the Parties previously entered into a Technical Services
Agreement effective as of February 13, 2006, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated May 30, 2006, and another Technical Services Agreement effective as of May 7, 2007 with respect to such preliminary work relating to the Project.
The Parties are entering into negotiations relative to a definitive agreement between the Parties with respect to the Project and desire to enter into a third Technical Services Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, for purposes of undertaking
additional work for the development and construction of the Facility. As a result of such third Technical Services Agreement, the Parties now desire to enter into this confidentiality letter agreement (this   Agreement  ), in order,
among other things, (i) for Duke to use the Confidential Information (as defined below) of Bechtel for the purposes of design, construction, maintenance, operation, repair, modification, licensing, simulation, commissioning and decommissioning
of the Project, training, consultation and compliance with laws in respect of the Project, and otherwise for Duke s internal business purposes and (ii) for Bechtel to use the Confidential Information of Duke for the purposes of fulfilling
its contractual obligations to Duke in respect of the Project (such purposes described in the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii) of this paragraph, collectively, the   Purposes  ). Each Party furnishing its Confidential
Information shall be hereinafter referred to, with respect to such information, as the   Disclosing Party ,  and each Party receiving such information shall be hereinafter referred to, with respect to such information, as the
  Receiving Party  .      All information regarding a Party s
properties, employees, finances, businesses, operations, assets, prospects, financial affairs and proprietary technology furnished or disclosed by a Disclosing Party or its Representatives (as defined below) to the other Party, whether furnished or
disclosed before or after the date hereof and regardless of the manner in which it is furnished or disclosed, that is: (i) written or electronic and clearly marked  Confidential ,  Proprietary ,  Bechtel Sulfur
Confidential  or  Bechtel Sulfur Information      1     , or (ii) if furnished or disclosed orally or visually, is
identified by the Disclosing Party as being  Confidential ,       

1     
  Attachment No. 1 hereto contains a complete definition of  Bechtel Sulfur Information .     

Proprietary ,  Bechtel Sulfur Confidential  or  Bechtel Sulfur Information  at the time of such oral or visual disclosure and
also identified as such in a writing or electronic message sent by the Disclosing Party and received by the Receiving Party within ten (10) days after such disclosure, such writing or electronic message setting forth (A) the date and
approximate time of the oral or visual disclosure, (B) the names of the Representatives of each Party disclosing and receiving such oral or visual disclosure and (C) the information that was identified by the Disclosing Party at the time
of oral or visual disclosure as being  Confidential ,  Proprietary ,  Bechtel Sulfur Confidential  or  Bechtel Sulfur Information  (such information described in the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii) of
this paragraph, collectively, the   Confidential Information  ). All such information disclosed by a Disclosing Party or its Representatives shall remain the Disclosing Party s Confidential Information notwithstanding the
inclusion of such information in summaries or other documents created by the other Party or its Representatives.      The term
 Confidential Information  shall not include information that: (a) is or becomes available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives (as defined below) in breach of this
Agreement or any previous agreement to which the Parties were previously bound , (b) was available to the Receiving Party on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure by the Disclosing Party or its Representatives from a person who was
not known by the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives to be otherwise bound by a confidentiality agreement with the Disclosing Party or any of its Representatives, or otherwise under an obligation to the Disclosing Party or any of its
Representatives not to transmit the information to the Receiving Party, (c) is developed independently by the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives without use or benefit of information disclosed by the Disclosing Party, or
(d) becomes available to the Receiving Party on a non-confidential basis from a person other than the Disclosing Party or its Representatives who is not, to the best of the Receiving Party s knowledge, otherwise bound by a confidentiality
agreement with the Disclosing Party or any of its Representatives, or otherwise under an obligation to the Disclosing Party or any of its Representatives not to transmit the information to the Receiving Party. Specific information shall not be
deemed to fall within one of the exceptions described in (a) through (d) above solely because it is contained in more general information that does fall within one of the aforementioned exceptions.      Subject to the immediately succeeding paragraph, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by a Disclosing Party, each Party agrees: (a) except as
required by law, rule, applicable regulation, stock exchange rule or disclosure requirement of the Securities and Exchange Commission (collectively,   Law  ), to keep all Confidential Information of the other Party confidential and
not to disclose or reveal any such Confidential Information to any person other than to: (i) its directors, partners, officers and employees and those attorneys, accountants, financial advisors, consultants or other agents or advisors who are
not officers or employees and who need to know such Confidential Information for such Party s Purposes (such persons being collectively referred to herein as   Representatives   (ii) in the case of Duke, Potential
Participants (as defined below) who need to know such Confidential Information to evaluate participation in the Project and who have entered into a confidentiality agreement with Duke substantially in the form attached as Attachment No. 2
hereto; (iii) contractors and vendors of Duke who need to know Confidential Information of Bechtel for Duke s Purposes and who have entered into a confidentiality agreement with Duke substantially in the form attached as Attachment
No. 2 hereto; and (iv) contractors and vendors of Bechtel who need to know Confidential Information of Duke for Bechtel s Purposes and who agree in writing to keep such  

information confidential in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; and (b) not to use, and to take commercially reasonable efforts to cause its
Representatives not to use, Confidential Information of the other Party for any purpose other than in connection with such Party s Purposes. During the period prior to substantial completion of the construction of the Project, competitors of
Bechtel identified in Schedule I attached hereto (each, a   Bechtel Competitor  ) shall use any Confidential Information of Bechtel only for the purposes of providing technical or advisory services or off-site fabrication services in
connection with the Project and shall have first entered into a confidentiality agreement with Duke substantially in the form attached as Attachment No. 3 hereto, and Duke shall permit disclosure only to those Bechtel Competitor employees in
positions and in numbers appropriate to the scope of work contemplated (but in no event more than ten employees for any confidentiality agreement without the prior written consent of Bechtel, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld). In no
event shall Duke allow any Bechtel Competitor to access the Project data room containing Bechtel estimate data without the prior written consent of Bechtel. Each Party will be responsible for any breach of this paragraph by any of its
Representatives. Each Party will be bound by the foregoing obligations of confidentiality hereunder for a period of five (5) years from the date hereof. With respect to Bechtel Sulfur Information, the Receiving Party s obligation shall be
evergreen, so long as such information shall not be available to the public, and have no termination.      In connection with the Project, Duke
may deem it necessary or advisable to discuss the Project with one or more third parties with respect to such third parties  potential participation with respect to the Project (each, a   Potential Participant  ). In this regard,
it may be necessary or advisable for Duke to disclose to a Potential Participant Bechtel s Confidential Information. Bechtel hereby consents to any future discussions between Duke and any Potential Participants with respect to the Project and
to the disclosure of Bechtel Confidential Information by Duke to any and all Potential Participants, so long as such Potential Participant has entered into a confidentiality agreement with Duke on the terms set forth in the preceding paragraph.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that Duke does not pursue participation in the Project with a Potential Participant, but continues work on the Project with Bechtel, Duke agrees not to thereafter disclose, and will direct its
Representatives not to thereafter disclose, to such Potential Participant any further Confidential Information of Bechtel, subject to the exceptions set forth in this Agreement.      The Parties acknowledge and agree that Bechtel and GE are parties to an agreement protecting the confidentiality of each of their respective Confidential
Information. Accordingly, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (a) Duke and its Representatives shall be free to disclose Bechtel s Confidential Information (unless marked  Restricted Duke-Bechtel Information  or
something substantially similar that indicates that disclosure to GE is not permitted), including Bechtel Sulfur Information, to GE and its affiliates without first entering into any agreement therewith regarding protection of Bechtel s
Confidential Information and (b) Duke shall have no liability to Bechtel or to any third party for the failure or alleged failure of GE or any of its affiliates to protect the confidentiality of Bechtel s Confidential Information.
     In the event that a Receiving Party or any of its Representatives is legally compelled, pursuant to a subpoena, civil investigative
demand, regulatory demand or other process or Law, to disclose any Confidential Information of the other Party, such Receiving Party agrees  

that it will provide the Disclosing Party with prompt notice of such request or requirement (if legally permissible to do so) to enable the Disclosing Party,
at the Disclosing Party s sole expense, to seek an appropriate protective order or other remedy, to consult with the Receiving Party with respect to the Disclosing Party taking steps to resist or narrow the scope of such request or legal
process, or to waive compliance, in whole or in part, with the terms of this Agreement. In any such event, the Receiving Party will use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that all such Confidential Information of the other Party that is so
disclosed will be accorded confidential treatment and shall furnish only that portion of such Confidential Information that the Receiving Party is advised by counsel is legally required. If, in the absence of a protective order, the Receiving Party
or any of its Representatives is compelled to disclose Confidential Information of the other Party as a matter of Law, the Receiving Party shall disclose only that part of such Confidential Information as is required by Law to be disclosed (in which
case, prior to such disclosure, the Receiving Party will, to the extent practicable and permissible, advise and consult with the Disclosing Party and its counsel as to such disclosure and the nature and wording of such disclosure), and, to the
extent practical in the circumstances, the Receiving Party will use its reasonable efforts to obtain confidential treatment for any Confidential Information so disclosed.      In connection with the Project, Duke may deem it necessary or advisable to discuss certain matters relating to the Project with the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
(IURC), the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor (OUCC), the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other similar entity whose involvement or approval is necessary or
prudent for carrying out the Project or the work required by other agreements between the Parties. In this regard, it may be necessary or prudent for Duke to disclose to such persons the proposed terms thereof or Bechtel s Confidential
Information. In holding such discussions, Duke undertakes to convey to such persons the importance of maintaining confidentiality with respect to the matters that are discussed. Accordingly, Bechtel hereby consents to discussions between the
foregoing persons, on the one hand, and Duke and its Representatives, on the other, regarding regulatory matters pertinent to the Project and Duke may disclose Confidential Information of Bechtel to MISO, IURC, IDEM, OUCC, EPA or other similar
entity in such discussions.      Each Receiving Party acknowledges that Confidential Information is and at all times remains the sole and
exclusive property of the Disclosing Party, and the Disclosing Party has the exclusive right, title and interest to its Confidential Information. No right or license, by implication or otherwise, is granted by the Disclosing Party as a result of
disclosure of Confidential Information under this Agreement, but such right or license may arise as specified in any prior or future agreements between the Parties.      Each Receiving Party acknowledges that no Disclosing Party nor any of its Representatives, by its signature below, makes any express or implied representation or warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of its
Confidential Information, and each Receiving Party agrees that none of such persons, by sole reason of this Agreement, shall have any liability to any Receiving Party or any of its Representatives relating to or arising from the use of any
Confidential Information by the Receiving Party or its Representatives or for any errors therein or omissions therefrom. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing shall not negate or restrict any express or implied representation or warranty
relating to the accuracy or completeness of a  

Party s Confidential Information arising as specified in any other agreements between the Parties.      This Agreement binds the Parties only with respect to the matters expressly set forth herein and nothing in this Agreement shall bind any of the Parties
to other specific terms or conditions relating to the Project. Neither of the Parties is bound or committed to negotiate or consummate the Project by virtue of this Agreement unless and until a definitive agreement on such matters between the
Parties has been executed and delivered on behalf of each such Party by its duly authorized officer.      Each Receiving Party is aware, and
will advise its Representatives who are informed of the matters that are the subject of this Agreement, of the restrictions imposed by the United States securities laws on the purchase or sale of securities by any person who has received material,
non-public information from the issuer of such securities and on the communication of such information to any other person when it is reasonably foreseeable that such other person is likely to purchase or sell such securities in reliance upon such
information. Each Receiving Party hereby confirms that it, and its Representatives, will take any action necessary to prevent the use of any information about any Disclosing Party in a way which might violate any antitrust or other applicable Law.
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Duke shall have the right to permit visitors to tour the Edwardsport integrated
gasification combined cycle facility without entering into any confidentiality agreement with such visitors prior to such tour.      It is
understood that the covenants of this Agreement and the Confidential Information disclosed are special, unique and of extraordinary character. Each Disclosing Party may be irreparably harmed by a breach of this Agreement by a Receiving Party, and
the use of the Confidential Information for the business purposes of any person other than the Disclosing Party may enable such person to compete unfairly with the Disclosing Party. Without prejudice to the rights and remedies otherwise available to
each of the Parties, each Party shall be entitled to seek equitable relief by way of injunction or otherwise if another Party or any of its Representatives breaches or threatens to breach any of the provisions of this Agreement. It is further
understood and agreed that no failure or delay by a Party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the
exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder.      Each Party shall be responsible for the costs and expenses incurred by it and its
Representatives in carrying out the purposes of this Agreement.      This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of Indiana applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that state.      This Agreement shall be binding on the
Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Any assignment of this Agreement, in whole or in part, by either Party without the prior written consent of the other Party hereto shall be null and void  ab initio .      This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties, and this Agreement shall not be deemed to confer upon or give to any third party any remedy,
claim of liability or reimbursement, cause of action or other right.   

If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The Parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision with a valid, legal and
enforceable provision, the effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision.      No
modification of this Agreement or waiver of the terms and conditions hereof shall be binding upon the Parties, unless approved in a writing signed by each of the Parties.      This Agreement contains the entire agreement among the parties concerning the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all previous understandings or agreements, whether written or oral, pertaining to said subject
matter, including the Existing Confidentiality Agreement, which is hereby terminated with respect to Duke and Bechtel without surviving obligations. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same agreement.      Bechtel shall not, and shall not permit any of its Representatives to, issue any
press or publicity release, concerning this Agreement, the Project or any other agreement between the Parties relating to the Project without the express prior written consent of Duke, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.      Please acknowledge your agreement to the foregoing by countersigning this Agreement in the space provided below and returning to the undersigned a fully
executed original copy of this Agreement.      Sincerely,       

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA, INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ W. Michael Womack    
 
  Name:  
     
  W. Michael Womack   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President   
    Accepted and Agreed as of the date first written above:       

BECHTEL POWER CORPORATION   

By:  
     
    /s/ Amos A. Avidan    
 
  Name:  
     
  Amos A. Avidan   
 
  Title:  
     
  IGCC/Gasification Operations Manager   

Attachment No. 1   Definition of  Bechtel Sulfur Information   
      Bechtel Sulfur Information  means Bechtel s information relating to processes for the conversion of hydrogen sulfide to elemental sulfur
in an environmentally acceptable manner, including but not limited to, Claus sulfur recovery, tail gas treating, and thermal oxidizing.   

Attachment No. 2   Form of Confidentiality Agreement (non-competitors)     

Form Non-Disclosure and Secrecy Agreement        THIS NON-DISCLOSURE AND SECRECY AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ) is entered into as of the      day of
                    , 20        , between Duke Energy Indiana, Inc., an Indiana corporation having its
principal place of business in Charlotte, North Carolina (  Duke Energy  ), and
                                        , a
                          [ corporation ]  having its principal place of business in
                         (the   Company  ). Duke Energy and the Company shall sometimes be individually referred
to herein as a   Party   and collectively as   Parties .       R E C I T A L S:      A. Duke Energy is developing an integrated gasification combined cycle facility in Edwardsport, Indiana (the   Facility  ).      B. Duke Energy and the Company are engaged in, or intend to engage in, discussions pursuant to which  [ (a) Duke Energy may engage the Company to
construct, operate, maintain, modify, repair, test, train, commission, decommission, license or inspect the Facility, or (b) the Company may consider purchasing all or a portion of the Facility ] .  [Tailor to purposes in connection with
the Company.]       C. The Parties acknowledge that each Party may make available to the other Party, from time to time, in connection with
the aforementioned purposes, certain Confidential Information (as defined below), including Confidential Information belonging to General Electric Company or its affiliates (collectively,   GE  ) or Bechtel Power Corporation or its
affiliates (collectively,   Bechtel  ) that is disclosed by Duke Energy, GE or Bechtel, as applicable, to the Company.      NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual promises and covenants hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by each Party, the Parties, intending
to be legally bound, agree as follows:      1.  Definitions . As used in this Agreement,      (a)   Confidential Information   means all nonpublic information disclosed by, or on behalf of, a Party (or, with respect to disclosures of
GE or Bechtel nonpublic information to the Company, GE or Bechtel, as applicable) (the   Disclosing Party  ) to the other Party (the   Receiving Party  ) or its Representatives (as defined below), whether disclosed
before or after the date hereof (including any information disclosed under any previous confidentiality agreements) and regardless of the manner or format of such disclosure, that: (a) is designated in writing as  confidential, 
 proprietary,   GE Gasification Information,   Bechtel Sulfur Information,  or similar designation by the Disclosing Party at the time of written disclosure; (b) a reasonable person in the power generation industry
would understand to be confidential or proprietary by virtue of its nature; or (c) is orally or visually disclosed and confirmed and designated by the Disclosing Party to be  confidential  or  proprietary  in writing within
thirty  

(30) days after such oral or visual disclosure. Once orally or visually disclosed information has been designated as  Confidential  or as a similar
designation, all future disclosures of such information shall be protected, regardless of whether such future disclosures are marked or designated as  Confidential  or with a similar designation.  Confidential Information  shall
  not   include any information that: (i) was publicly available prior to disclosure thereof to a Receiving Party or its Representatives by a Disclosing Party; (ii) becomes publicly available after disclosure thereof to a
Receiving Party or its Representatives by a Disclosing Party other than as a result of a public disclosure by such Receiving Party or its Representatives; (iii) is at the time of its disclosure to a Receiving Party or its Representatives, or
becomes thereafter, available to the Receiving Party or its Representatives on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Disclosing Party and such source is not, to the best of the Receiving Party s knowledge, subject to a
confidentiality obligation to the Disclosing Party regarding such information; (iv) is independently developed by a Receiving Party or its Representatives without reference to the Disclosing Party s Confidential Information; or (v) is
approved for disclosure in writing by the Disclosing Party. Specific information shall not be excluded from the above obligations merely because it is embraced by more general information excluded under items (i), (ii) or (iii) above. A
specific combination of features or items shall not be so excluded unless the specific combination itself falls within items (i), (ii) or (iii) above; and      (b)   GE Gasification Information   has the meaning set forth on Schedule A hereto, which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement; and      (c)   Bechtel Sulfur Information   has the meaning set forth on Schedule B hereto, which is hereby incorporated by reference into this
Agreement; and      (d)  Representative  means (i) any affiliate, director, officer, employee, agent, advisor or other
representative of a Disclosing Party or Receiving Party, as the case may be, and (ii) any contractor or vendor who needs to know the Confidential Information to construct, operate, maintain, modify, repair, test, train, commission,
decommission, license or inspect the Facility and who enters into a Non-Disclosure and Secrecy Agreement with the Receiving Party in substantially the form hereof with Duke Energy, as well as GE and Bechtel, as third party beneficiaries thereof.
     2.  Non-Disclosure . Subject to Section 4 below, the Receiving Party shall (a) take reasonable precautions to prevent
unauthorized disclosure or use of Confidential Information disclosed to it by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party, such precautions taken being at least as great as the precautions taken by the Receiving Party to protect its own Confidential
Information (but in no case less than reasonable care), and (b) not disclose Confidential Information disclosed to it or its Representatives by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party to any third party (other than Duke Energy s
Representatives) without the Disclosing Party s prior written authorization. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party to any Representative of the Receiving Party,
 provided   that  the Receiving Party agrees to be responsible for each such Representative s compliance with the terms hereunder binding on the Receiving Party. Duke Energy and the Company agree that Bechtel and GE are third party
beneficiaries of this Agreement.   

3.  Authorized Uses . The Receiving Party and its Representatives shall use any Confidential
Information disclosed to them by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party only (a) to the extent required to construct, operate, maintain, modify, repair, test, train, commission, decommission, license or inspect the Facility or (b) in the
consideration of purchasing all or a portion of the Facility.      4.  Required Disclosure . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Agreement, a Receiving Party or its Representatives may disclose Confidential Information disclosed to it by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party if required, according to a good faith belief by Receiving Party s or its
Representative s legal counsel, by law, legal process or a government authority. If a Receiving Party or its Representative is legally compelled to disclose Confidential Information disclosed to it by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party, or
if such disclosure is necessary in order to comply with laws or obtain or maintain governmental approvals, applications or exemptions, the Receiving Party or its Representative must provide (if legally permissible to do so) the Disclosing Party with
as much advance written notice as practicable to afford the Disclosing Party the opportunity to seek a protective order or other remedy to prevent disclosure. If such protective order or other remedy is not obtained, the Receiving Party or its
Representative, as applicable, shall furnish only that portion of the Confidential Information disclosed to it by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party that is required in the opinion of its legal counsel and shall cooperate with the Disclosing
Party, at the Disclosing Party s expense, to enable the Disclosing Party to obtain a protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded the same.      5.  Grantbacks . In the event the Company should obtain a patent, trade secret, or other intellectual property right, including, without limitation,
an improvement to or a modification of GE Gasification Information, or equipment or materials used therein, based on or resulting from access to or use of Confidential Information of GE furnished by Duke Energy or GE, the Company agrees to grant and
hereby grants an irrevocable, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to GE under such patent and/or such other intellectual property right, together with the right to extend such license to licensees of GE, all without accounting to the Company
therefor.      6.  Return or Destruction of Confidential Information . If any Party decides that it does not wish to continue discussions
with respect to the Facility, such Party will promptly notify the other Party of that decision by giving a written termination notice. In such case or at any time for any reason, upon the written request of the Disclosing Party, the Receiving Party
will, and will cause its Representatives to, promptly, (i) deliver to the Disclosing Party all original Confidential Information (whether written or electronic) furnished to the Receiving Party or its Representatives by or on behalf of the
Disclosing Party, and (ii) if specifically requested by the Disclosing Party, destroy any copies of such Confidential Information (including any extracts therefrom); provided, however, so long as the Company is not in breach of any term of this
Agreement with respect to Confidential Information of GE or Bechtel, the Company shall not be required to return or destroy Confidential Information at the request of GE or Bechtel, as applicable, to the extent the Company requires such Confidential
Information to perform its obligations with respect to the Facility. Upon written request of the Disclosing Party for any reason, the Receiving Party shall, and shall cause its Representatives to, cause one of its duly authorized officers to certify
in writing to the Disclosing Party that the requirements of the  

preceding sentence have been satisfied in full. Notwithstanding the termination of any discussions with respect to the Facility or the return or destruction
of any Confidential Information, the Receiving Party will continue to be bound by terms of this Agreement as provided herein.      7.
 Miscellaneous .      (a) Neither this Agreement nor any right, remedy, obligation or liability arising hereunder shall be assigned by any
Party (whether by operation of law or otherwise), and any such assignment shall be null and void, except with the prior written consent of the other Party. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.      (b) The Parties acknowledge and agree that no failure or delay by a
Party in exercising any right or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof. The provisions of this Agreement may be modified or waived only in writing signed by the Party from whom compliance is sought.      (c) The Company agrees that neither GE nor Bechtel (i) makes any warranty to the Company as to the accuracy or completeness of the Confidential
Information of GE or Bechtel; or (ii) shall have any liability to the Company resulting from the use of any Confidential Information of GE or Bechtel.      (d) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana, without regards to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof.      (e) This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one
and the same instrument. A facsimile of any signature shall have the same force and effect as an original.      (f) Each Party acknowledges and
agrees that money damages would not be a sufficient remedy for any breach of this Agreement by such Party and that the other Party shall be entitled to seek equitable relief, including seeking an injunction and specific performance, as a remedy for
any such breach. Such remedies shall not be deemed to be the exclusive remedies for a breach of this Agreement, but shall be in addition to all other remedies available at law or equity.      (g) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter herein and supersedes and cancels any prior
agreements, representations, warranties, or communications, whether oral or written, between the Parties relating to the subject matter herein.      (h) A Receiving Party shall: (i) notify the Disclosing Party immediately upon discovery of any unauthorized disclosure or use of Confidential Information disclosed by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party; and (ii) cooperate,
without charge, with reasonable efforts by the  

Disclosing Party to regain possession of such Confidential Information, prevent further breaches of this Agreement or prevent further unauthorized uses or
disclosures of such Confidential Information.      (i) As between the Disclosing Party and the Receiving Party, the Disclosing Party shall
remain the owner of all rights in Confidential Information disclosed by, or on behalf of, the Disclosing Party. Except for the limited right to use such Confidential Information for the purposes set forth in Section 3 above, nothing in this
Agreement grants any express, implied or other license or right in such Confidential Information to the Receiving Party.      (j) The foregoing
confidentiality obligations shall commence on the date hereof and shall end five (5) years thereafter, except with respect to GE Gasification Information and Bechtel Sulfur Information, for which such confidentiality obligations shall be
evergreen and shall have no expiration.      (k) If any provision of this Agreement or portion thereof is found to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable, then, notwithstanding such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, the illegal or unenforceable provision or portion shall be deemed to be deleted from this Agreement and the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and
effect. The Parties specifically acknowledge that the absence of a time limitation in this Agreement is reasonable and properly required for the protection of each Confidential Information disclosed by each Party hereunder. In the event that the
absence of such limitation is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction to cause this Agreement to be invalid or unenforceable, then the Parties specifically intend for such court to impose any such time limitation as such court shall deem
reasonable.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has executed this Agreement, or caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf, all
as of the day and year first above written.        

Duke Energy Indiana, Inc.   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

The Company:   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

SCHEDULE A         GE Gasification Information   shall mean Confidential Information provided, directly or indirectly, by Duke Energy to the Company that is proprietary solely to GE, marked as  GE Gasification Information  or
similar term and that describes: (1) the manufacture of synthesis gas (hydrogen and carbon monoxide) in a secret and proprietary process; and (2) its integration with other elements for: (a) electric power generation; (b) high
purity hydrogen production; and (c) carbon capture, as described below.       

(1)  
  The manufacture of synthesis gas in this context refers to the following:        Processes for producing synthesis gas, also known as reducing gas, or fuel gas, via the partial oxidation of solid, liquid and/or gaseous hydrocarbonaceous feedstocks, or combinations thereof, with oxygen, such as in
the form of high purity oxygen, enriched air, or air, for the handling, preparation, and introduction of the feeds into the synthesis gas generation process, including any temperature moderators, such as steam, water, nitrogen, or carbon dioxide,
for heating, cooling or recovering waste energy from feed, internal, or product streams, for separating contaminants from the synthesis gas, or otherwise purifying or processing the synthesis gas for its end use, and for recovering and processing
the contaminants and waste solids for recycle, for disposal, or to form useful byproducts. Quantities, pressures, temperatures, compositions, and certain physical and chemical properties of each of the associated streams are included in this
definition. The configuration of control systems that monitor or govern the flow of these streams and the operation of the process, as well as the process design of the equipment and the mechanical design of the GE proprietary equipment used in and
for these processes, are also included.       

(2)  
  The integration of the gasification process with:         

(a)  
  that for electric power generation in this context refers to the following:         

(i)  
  Processes for heat exchange between the gasification section, the air separation unit (ASU), and the combined-cycle power island utilizing steam, syngas, and water. Quantities,
compositions, pressures, and temperatures of each of these streams are included in this definition. Configuration of control systems that monitor or govern the flow of these streams, as well as the thermal design of the Heat Recovery Steam Generator
and other heat exchange equipment are also included.         

(ii)  
    Processes that utilize and integrate the flow of compressed air between the gasification, ASU, and power plant sections and processes that utilize flows of diluents
to the syngas fed to the combustion turbine. This includes the exchange of air and fuel diluent streams between the gasification section, the ASU, and the combustion turbine including these streams  quantities, temperatures, pressures, and
compositions. The configuration of control systems that monitor or govern these streams are also included in this definition. Fuel diluent streams are those streams that  

are used to enhance the power plant s output and to reduce emissions of NOx from the combustion turbine. These diluent streams may include, but are not
limited to, nitrogen, steam, water, and carbon dioxide.          

(iii)  
  Control systems configuration and execution, including software that is involved in the feedback, feed-forward, and hybrid systems that govern the relationship of fuel flow, oxygen
flow, diluent flow, and power plant output.         

(b)  
  that for hydrogen production in this context refers to the following:        Processes that increase the yield of hydrogen in the synthesis gas by reacting steam or water with carbon monoxide in the synthesis gas to form additional hydrogen, for separating and concentrating the hydrogen to
form one or more gaseous streams of higher hydrogen purity, such as high purity hydrogen, for modifying the pressure of the feed and product streams, for heating, cooling or recovering waste energy from feed, intermediate, or product streams, for
recycling hydrogen and non-hydrogen containing gases to increase the net yield of hydrogen, and for otherwise purifying, or removing or recovering contaminants from hydrogen-enriched and other product gases, including the synthesis gas. Quantities,
pressures, temperatures, and the compositions of each of the associated streams are included in this definition. Control systems that monitor or govern the flow of these streams and the operation of the process, as well as the mechanical design of
the equipment used in and for these processes, are also included.       

(c)  
  that for carbon capture in this context refers to shift conversion, purification, membrane separation, acid gas removal and/or compression including any means or methods for
integrating said combination, and any modifications or improvements to any of the foregoing for the purpose of producing carbon dioxide.        For
the avoidance of doubt, the physical byproducts of sulfur and slag are not included within the definitions of  GE Gasification Information  or  Confidential Information.    

SCHEDULE B        Bechtel Sulfur Information  means Bechtel s information relating to processes for the conversion of hydrogen sulfide to elemental sulfur in an environmentally acceptable manner, including but not limited to, Claus sulfur
recovery, tail gas treating, and thermal oxidizing.   

Attachment No. 3   Form of Confidentiality Agreement (competitors)     

FORM OF CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT [COMPETITORS]       This CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT (this  Agreement ) is made on
                     200    , ( Effective Date ) by and between Duke Energy Indiana, Inc., an Indiana corporation
having its principal place of business in Charlotte, North Carolina ( Duke Energy ), and [            ] ( RECIPIENT ) with its principal place of business at
[            ] (collectively the  Parties  and each individually, a  Party ). In consideration of disclosure of Confidential Information (as defined below) to RECIPIENT,
RECIPIENT agrees as follows:      SECTION 1  Purpose        

1.1  
  RECIPIENT has been engaged by Duke Energy to assist Duke Energy in [tasks relating to the construction, licensing, commissioning, operation, repairs, maintenance, modification or
decommissioning of, or training with respect to,] the integrated gasification combined cycle coal-fired electrical generation facility [to be constructed] at the Edwardsport site in Knox County, Indiana (the  Facility ) and, in such
capacity, RECIPIENT may come into possession of Confidential Information as hereinafter defined. [NARROW PURPOSE FOR ENGAGEMENT]        SECTION 2
 Definitions and Rules of Interpretation        

2.1  
  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings set forth in this Section 2.1:          Affiliate   means any Person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under
common control with a Party. For purposes of this definition,  control  means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership
of voting securities or otherwise.        Confidential Information   means any and all information received by or otherwise made
available to RECIPIENT or any of its employees (whether before or after the Effective Date) which is marked as being confidential to Bechtel Power Corporation ( Bechtel ).        Person   means, unless otherwise specified, a natural person, corporation, society, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated
association or consortium or other entity, including a governmental authority.       

2.2  
  Headings and captions in this Agreement have been inserted for ease of reference only and shall not be used in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
       SECTION 3  Term of Agreement; Survival of Obligations    

3.1  
  This Agreement shall be effective as of the Effective Date and the confidentiality obligations set out in Section 4 shall cease to be effective after the expiry of five
(5) years from the Effective Date, except with respect to Bechtel Sulfur Information, for which such confidentiality obligations shall, as long as such information shall not be available to the public, be evergreen and shall have no expiration.
 Bechtel Sulfur Information  means Bechtel s information relating to processes for the conversion of hydrogen sulfide to elemental sulfur in an environmentally acceptable manner, including but not limited to, Claus sulfur recovery,
tail gas treating, and thermal oxidizing.        SECTION 4  Undertakings of RECIPIENT        

4.1  
  RECIPIENT shall keep all Confidential Information confidential and shall not disclose Confidential Information to any Person, including any Affiliate of RECIPIENT, except as
permitted under Section 5.         

4.2  
  RECIPIENT shall protect the Confidential Information against disclosure and shall exercise no lesser security measures and degree of care in relation to the Confidential Information
than (a) a reasonable Person under similar circumstances would exercise in relation to its own confidential information, and (b) RECIPIENT uses to protect its own confidential information of a like nature.         

4.3  
  No right, license or other interest is granted to RECIPIENT in relation to the Confidential Information except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, and RECIPIENT shall not use
Confidential Information for any purpose except as contemplated by Section 1.1.         

4.4  
  RECIPIENT shall ensure that each Person to whom Confidential Information is disclosed (other than pursuant to Section 5.2) complies with the terms of this Agreement and shall
require that any such Person enters into an acknowledgement of the terms of this Agreement in the form attached to this Agreement ( Acknowledgement ) as a condition to disclosure of such Confidential Information. Without limiting the
foregoing, and notwithstanding any confidentiality agreement entered into by any of RECIPIENT s employees with RECIPIENT or Bechtel, RECIPIENT shall be and remain fully liable for the acts or omissions of its employees with respect to
Confidential Information and any disclosure or use of Confidential Information in violation of the terms of this Agreement.         

4.5  
  RECIPIENT shall keep all Confidential Information, as well as all information, documentation or other materials bearing or incorporating any Confidential Information, both
physically and electronically separate from other documents of RECIPIENT in such a manner to limit the potential for disclosure (inadvertent or otherwise) to others who have not similarly executed an Acknowledgment. In no event shall RECIPIENT use
any Confidential Information for any commercial or competitive purpose, except as contemplated by Section 1.1.     

SECTION 5  Permitted Disclosures        

5.1  
  RECIPIENT may disclose Confidential Information to its employees who have signed the Acknowledgement, but only to the extent such disclosure is required for the purpose contemplated
by Section 1.1.         

5.2  
  RECIPIENT may disclose Confidential Information to the extent such disclosure is required by any applicable law or regulation or court or other governmental authority of competent
jurisdiction provided that any such disclosure shall be limited to the specific part of the Confidential Information required to be disclosed. Immediately upon RECIPIENT becoming aware that it is required, or may become required, to disclose
Confidential Information for such reason, RECIPIENT shall (if legally permissible) give prompt written notice to Bechtel of such requirement or potential requirement and RECIPIENT shall assist, at Bechtel s expense, in connection with
Bechtel s pursuit of legal remedies in order to limit the extent of Confidential Information required to be disclosed. RECIPIENT and Bechtel shall use commercially reasonable efforts to limit or prevent any further disclosure of Confidential
Information required to be disclosed and to ensure that such Confidential Information is accorded confidential status and treatment by the court or other governmental authority in question.         

5.3  
  RECIPIENT shall have no obligation of confidentiality with respect to Confidential Information that RECIPIENT can demonstrate: (a) was already in RECIPIENT s possession at
the time of its disclosure pursuant to this Agreement and which was not acquired, directly or indirectly, from Bechtel under obligation of confidentiality; (b) is or becomes a matter of public knowledge through no fault of RECIPIENT or any of
its employees; (c) is lawfully received by RECIPIENT from a Person other than Bechtel in circumstances not involving a breach of any confidentiality obligation; or (d) is independently developed by RECIPIENT without benefit of disclosure
pursuant to this Agreement.        SECTION 6  Other Undertakings of the Parties        

6.1  
    At any time upon the written request of Bechtel or Duke Energy, RECIPIENT and its employees shall promptly deliver to Bechtel or Duke Energy (as applicable), or if
directed by Bechtel or Duke Energy destroy by shredding or incineration, all Confidential Information received in written, electronic or other tangible form, including copies, reproductions, computer diskettes or written materials containing
Confidential Information; provided, however, so long as the RECIPIENT is not in breach of any term of this Agreement with respect to Confidential Information, RECIPIENT shall not be required to return or destroy Confidential Information at the
request of Bechtel to the extent RECIPIENT requires such Confidential Information to perform its obligations with respect to the Facility. To the extent that any other notes, analyses, compilations or studies in the possession of RECIPIENT or its
employees contain Confidential Information, such notes, analyses, compilations or  

studies shall be destroyed to that same extent and such destruction shall be confirmed by RECIPIENT in writing to Bechtel.          

6.2  
  RECIPIENT shall immediately notify Duke Energy and Bechtel in the event that it becomes aware of any violation of the terms of this Agreement by it or its employees and shall assist
Bechtel, at RECIPIENT s own expense, in taking measures to protect the Confidential Information from further use or disclosure.         

6.3  
  All Confidential Information shall at all times be subject to the export control laws and regulations of the United States Government. RECIPIENT agrees that no Confidential
Information, or any product thereof, shall be exported or re-exported by RECIPIENT or its employees directly or indirectly from the USA, unless permitted by U.S. export control laws and regulations. The obligations of RECIPIENT under this
Section 6.3 shall survive any termination, expiration or discharge of any other contract obligations.        SECTION 7  Non-Compliance with
this Agreement        

7.1  
  The Parties acknowledge and agree that money damages would be both incalculable and an inadequate remedy for any breach of this Agreement by RECIPIENT or RECIPIENT s employees
and that any such breach would cause each of Bechtel and Duke Energy irreparable harm. Accordingly, the Parties agree that in the event of any breach or threatened breach of this Agreement, each of Bechtel and Duke Energy, in addition to any other
remedies it may have at law, shall be entitled, without the requirement of posting a bond or other security, to equitable and injunctive relief, including specific performance, against RECIPIENT and RECIPIENT s employees.
       SECTION 8  Miscellaneous        

8.1  
  Except as otherwise expressly agreed in writing, neither Duke Energy nor Bechtel make any representations or warranties with regard to the substance, content, accuracy or
completeness of Confidential Information disclosed. Except as otherwise expressly agreed in writing, neither Duke Energy, Bechtel nor any of their respective Affiliates shall have any liability to RECIPIENT or any of its employees arising out of or
resulting from any disclosure of Confidential Information or any alleged reliance on or use of any Confidential Information, whether such liability arises or is alleged to arise in contract (including by way of indemnity), tort (including
negligence), misrepresentation, by way of contribution, or otherwise.         

8.2  
  The rights and remedies contained in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of rights and remedies provided by applicable law. Any failure to exercise or delay in
exercising any right or remedy provided by this Agreement or by applicable law shall not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy or a waiver of any other right or remedy provided by this Agreement or by applicable law. No single or partial
exercise of a right or remedy provided by this Agreement or by applicable law shall prevent a further exercise of such right or remedy or the exercise of another right or remedy provided under this Agreement or applicable law.

8.3  
  All additions, amendments, waivers or modifications to this Agreement shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the Parties or, in the case of a waiver, the waiving Party.

8.4  
  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of Indiana (without giving effect to the principles thereof relating to conflicts of law).

8.5  
  If any provision of this Agreement shall be determined by a governmental authority of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the validity or
enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement, or any portions or applications thereof, shall not be affected by the invalidity or unenforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and any invalid or unenforceable provision
shall be deemed severed from the remainder of this Agreement. In such an event, the Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to negotiate an equitable adjustment to this Agreement with a view toward achieving the original purpose and intent
of this Agreement.         

8.6  
  Neither Party shall assign this Agreement, or its rights or obligations hereunder, in whole or in part to any other Person without the prior written consent of the other Party.

8.7  
  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.         

8.8  
  This Agreement represents the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the matters referred to herein and supersedes all prior written and oral understandings pertaining
to the matters referred to herein.         

8.9  
  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same
instrument.         

8.10  
  Bechtel is an intended third party beneficiary of this Agreement, entitled to enforce its provisions against RECIPIENT.        [execution page follows]   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed this Confidentiality Agreement as of the date first above written.

Duke Energy Indiana, Inc.  

[            ]   

Authorized Corporate  

Authorized Corporate   
 
  Officer Signature  

Officer Signature   

Printed Officer s Name  

Printed Officer s Name   

Printed Officer s Title  

Printed Officer s Title   

FORM OF  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT       ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF
                                          
                  I,
                                         
            , in consideration for receiving  Confidential Information , as such term is defined in the Confidentiality Agreement (the  Agreement ) dated
                        , 2008, between Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. and
                                         
            (  Employer ), hereby acknowledge that I have read the Agreement, that I understand the obligations contained therein, and that I agree to personally abide by the terms
thereof.      I specifically agree that I will not disclose such Confidential Information to any other employee or agent of Employer or any affiliate of
Employer, other than an employee of Employer who has similarly executed an Acknowledgement in the same form as this Acknowledgement.       

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

Date:  

Schedule I   Bechtel Competitors        The following entities and their affiliates (excluding independent contractors engaged by Duke for a Duke Purpose prior to such independent contractors becoming an
affiliate of any of the following entities) constitute  Bechtel Competitors :       

***          

***          

***      

</EX-10.77>

<EX-12>
 4
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNING TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earning to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit No. 12          
   COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES             The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is calculated using the Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines.         

(a)  
  Excludes minority interest expense and income or loss from equity investees.     

(b)  
  Excludes equity costs related to Allowance for Funds Used During Construction that are included in Other Income and Expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

List of Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT 21              LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES             The following is a list of certain subsidiaries (greater than 50% owned) of the registrant and their respective states or countries of incorporation:         

1388368 Ontario Inc. (Ontario)   
      
    Cinergy Mexico Limited, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    3036243 Nova Scotia Company (Canada Nova Scotia)   
      
    Cinergy Mexico Marketing   Trading, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Advance SC LLC (South Carolina)   
      
    Cinergy Origination   Trade, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Aguaytia Energy del Peru S.R. Ltda (Peru)   
      
    Cinergy Power Generation Services, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Aguaytia Energy, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Cinergy Power Investments, Inc. (Ohio)    
 
    Antelope Ridge Gas Processing Plant   
      
    Cinergy Receivables Company LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Attiki Denmark ApS (Denmark)   
      
    Cinergy Retail Power General, Inc. (Texas)    
 
    Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bermuda)   
      
    Cinergy Retail Power Limited, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Brown County Landfill Gas Associates, L.P. (Delaware)   
      
    Cinergy Retail Power, L.P. (Delaware)    
 
    Brownsville Power I, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Cinergy Risk Solutions Ltd. (Vermont)    
 
    BSPE General, LLC (Texas)   
      
    Cinergy Solutions Utility, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    BSPE Holdings, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Cinergy Solutions Limited Partnership (Ontario)    
 
    BSPE Limited, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Cinergy Solutions Partners, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    BSPE, L.P. (Delaware)   
      
    Cinergy Technology, Inc. (Indiana)    
 
    Cadence Network, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    Cinergy Two, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Caldwell Power Company (North Carolina)   
      
    Cinergy UK, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Catawba Manufacturing and Electric Power Company (North Carolina)   
      
    Cinergy Wholesale Energy, Inc. (Ohio)    
 
    Centra Gas Toluca S. de R.L. de C.V. (Mexico)   
      
    Cinergy-Centrus Communications, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    CGP Global Greece Holdings, SA (Greece)   
      
    Cinergy-Centrus, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Capital   Trading, Inc. (Indiana)   
      
    CinFuel Resources, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Climate Change Investments, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    CinPower I, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Corp. (Delaware)   
      
    Claiborne Energy Services, Inc. (Louisiana)    
 
    Cinergy General Holdings, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Comercializadora Duke Energy de Centro America, Limitada (Guatemala)    
 
    Cinergy Global (Cayman) Holdings, Inc. (Cayman Islands)   
      
    Commercial Electricity Supplies Limited (England)    
 
    Cinergy Global Ely, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    Compania de Servicios de Compresion de Campeche, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)    
 
    Cinergy Global Hellas S.A. (Greece)   
      
    Countryside Landfill Gasco, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Global Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    CRE, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Global Power (UK) Limited (England)   
      
    CSCC Holdings Limited Partnership (Canada - British Columbia)    
 
    Cinergy Global Power Africa (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa)   
      
    CSGP General, LLC (Texas)    
 
    Cinergy Global Power Iberia, S.A. (Spain)   
      
    CSGP Limited, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Global Power Services Limited (London, England)   
      
    CSGP of Southeast Texas, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Global Power, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    CSGP Services, L.P. (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Global Resources, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    CST General, LLC (Texas)    
 
    Cinergy Global Trading Limited (England)   
      
    CST Green Power, L.P. (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Global Tsavo Power (Cayman Islands)   
      
    CST Limited, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Holdings BV (Netherlands)   
      
    CTE Petrochemicals Company (Cayman Islands)    
 
    Cinergy Investments, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    D/FD Holdings, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Limited Holdings, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    D/FD Operating Services LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Cinergy Mexico General, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    DE Fossil-Hydro Engineering, Inc. (North Carolina)    
 
    Cinergy Mexico Holdings, LP (Delaware)   
      
    DE Marketing Canada Ltd. (Canadian Federal)    

DE Nuclear Engineering, Inc. (North Carolina)   
      
    Duke Energy Carolinas Plant Operations, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DE Operating Services, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (North Carolina)    
 
    DE Power Generating, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Development Pty Ltd (Australia)    
 
    DEGS Biogas, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Egenor S. en C. por A. (Peru)    
 
    DEGS EPCOM College Park, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Electroquil Partners (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS GASCO, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Engineering, Inc. (Ohio)    
 
    DEGS O M, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Finance Canada Limited Partnership (Alberta, Canada)    
 
    DEGS of Boca Raton, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Fossil-Hydro California, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of Cincinnati, LLC (Ohio)   
      
    Duke Energy Fossil-Hydro, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of Delta Township, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Generating S.A. (Argentina)    
 
    DEGS of Lansing, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Generation Services Holding Company, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of Monaca, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of Narrows, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Global Markets, Inc. (Nevada)    
 
    DEGS of Oklahoma, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Greenleaf, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of Parlin, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Group Holdings, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of Philadelphia, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Group, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of Rock Hill, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Hydrocarbons Canada Limited Partnership (Canada)    
 
    DEGS of San Diego, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Hydrocarbons Investments Ltd. (Canada Alberta)    
 
    DEGS of Shreveport, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Indiana)    
 
    DEGS of South Charleston, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Industrial Sales, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DEGS of St. Bernard, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy Interamerican Holding Company LDC (Cayman Islands)    
 
    DEGS of St. Paul, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International (Europe) Holdings ApS (Denmark)    
 
    DEGS of Tuscola, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International (Europe) Limited (United Kingdom)    
 
    Delta Township Utilities, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Argentina Holdings (Cayman Islands)    
 
    DENA Asset Partners, L.P. (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Argentina Marketing/Trading (Bermuda) Ltd. (Bermuda)    
 
    DENA Partners Holding, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Asia Pacific Ltd. (Bermuda)    
 
    DETM Marketing Northeast, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Bolivia Holdings No. 1, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DETMI Management, Inc. (Colorado)   
      
    Duke Energy International Bolivia Investments No. 1 Limited (Cayman Islands)    
 
    Dixilyn-Field (Nigeria) Limited (Nigeria)   
      
    Duke Energy International Bolivia Investments No. 2 Limited (Cayman Islands)    
 
    Dixilyn-Field Drilling Company (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Brasil Commercial, Ltda. (Brazil)    
 
    Dixilyn-Field International Drilling Company, S.A. (Panama)   
      
    Duke Energy International Brasil Holdings, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    DTMSI Management Ltd. (Alberta, Canada)   
      
    Duke Energy International Brazil Holdings Ltd. (Bermuda)    
 
    Duke Broadband, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International del Ecuador Cia. Ltda. (Ecuador)    
 
    Duke Canada Ltd. (Alberta, Canada)   
      
    Duke Energy International El Salvador Comercializadora de El Salvador, S.A. de C.V. (El Salvador)    
 
    Duke Capital Partners, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International El Salvador Investments No. 1 Ltd (Bermuda)    
 
    Duke Communication Services Caribbean Ltd. (Bermuda)   
      
    Duke Energy International El Salvador Investments No. 1 y Cia. S. enC. de C.V. (El Salvador)    
 
    Duke Communication Services, Inc. (North Carolina)   
      
    Duke Energy International El Salvador, S en C de CV (El Salvador)    
 
    Duke Communications Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Electroquil Holdings, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy Allowance Management, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Espana Holdings, S.L.U. (Spain)    
 
    Duke Energy Americas, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Finance (UK) Limited (United Kingdom)    
 
    Duke Energy Business Services LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Energy International Guatemala Holdings No. 1, Ltd. (Bermuda)    

Duke Energy International Guatemala Holdings No. 2, Ltd. (Bermuda)   
      
    Duke Energy Providence, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Guatemala Holdings No. 3 (Cayman Islands)   
      
    Duke Energy Receivables Finance Company, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Guatemala Limitada (Guatemala)   
      
    Duke Energy Registration Services, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Guatemala y Compania Sociedad en Comandita por Acciones (Guatemala)   
      
    Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Investments No. 2 Ltd. (Bermuda)   
      
    Duke Energy Royal, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Latin America, Ltd. (Bermuda)   
      
    Duke Energy Services Canada Ltd. (Alberta, Canada)    
 
    Duke Energy International Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)   
      
    Duke Energy Services Ireland Limited (Republic of Ireland)    
 
    Duke Energy International Netherlands Financial Services B.V. (Netherlands)   
      
    Duke Energy Services, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Operaciones Guatemala Limitada (Guatemala)   
      
    Duke Energy Shared Services, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Peru Inversiones No. 1, S.R.L. (Peru)   
      
    Duke Energy St. Francis, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Peru Investments No. 1, Ltd. (Bermuda)   
      
    Duke Energy Supply Chain Services, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International PJP Holdings (Mauritius) Ltd. (Republic of Mauritius)   
      
    Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International PJP Holdings, Ltd. (Bermuda)   
      
    Duke Energy Trading Exchange, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Pty Ltd (Australia)   
      
    Duke Engineering   Services (Europe) Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Services (UK) Limited (United Kingdom)   
      
    Duke Engineering   Services International, Inc. (Cayman Islands)    
 
    Duke Energy International Southern Cone SRL (Argentina)   
      
    Duke Investments, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International Trading and Marketing (UK) Limited (United Kingdom)   
      
    Duke Java, Inc. (Nevada)    
 
    Duke Energy International Transmision Guatemala Limitada (Guatemala)   
      
    Duke Project Services Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)    
 
    Duke Energy International Uruguay Holdings, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Project Services, Inc. (North Carolina)    
 
    Duke Energy International Uruguay Investments, S.R.L. (Uruguay)   
      
    Duke Supply Network, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International, Brasil Ltda. (Brazil)   
      
    Duke Technologies, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy International, Geracao Paranapanema S.A. (Brazil)   
      
    Duke Trading Do Brasil Ltda. (Brazil)    
 
    Duke Energy International, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke Ventures II, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Kentucky)   
      
    Duke Ventures, LLC (Nevada)    
 
    Duke Energy Lantana, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke/Fluor Daniel (North Carolina)    
 
    Duke Energy Marketing America, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke/Fluor Daniel Caribbean, S.E. (Puerto Rico)    
 
    Duke Energy Marketing Canada Corp. (Delaware)   
      
    Duke/Fluor Daniel El Salvador S.A. de C.V. (El Salvador)    
 
    Duke Energy Marketing Corp. (Nevada)   
      
    Duke/Fluor Daniel International (Nevada)    
 
    Duke Energy Marketing Limited Partnership (Alberta, Canada)   
      
    Duke/Fluor Daniel International Services (Nevada)    
 
    Duke Energy Merchant Finance, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke/Fluor Daniel International Services (Trinidad) Ltd. (Trinidad and Tobago)    
 
    Duke Energy Merchants Investments (UK) Limited (England and Wales)   
      
    Duke/Louis Dreyfus LLC (Nevada)    
 
    Duke Energy Merchants Trading and Marketing (UK) Limited (England)   
      
    Duke-Cadence, Inc. (Indiana)    
 
    Duke Energy Merchants UK LLP (England and Wales)   
      
    DukeNet Communication Services, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy Merchants, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    DukeNet Communications, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy Moapa, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Duke-Reliant Resources, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy Murray Operating, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    DukeTec I, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy North America, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    DukeTec II, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Ohio)   
      
    DukeTec, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Duke Energy One, Inc. (Delaware)   
      
    Eastman Whipstock do Brasil Ltda. (Brazil)    
 
    Duke Energy Peru Holdings S.R.L. (Peru)   
      
    Eastman Whipstock, S.A. (Argentina)    
 
    Duke Energy Power Assets Holding, Inc. (Colorado)   
      
    Eastover Land Company (Kentucky)    
 
    Eastover Mining Company (Kentucky)   
      
    National Methanol Company (IBN SINA) (Saudi Arabia)    
 
    Electroguayas, Inc. (Cayman Islands)   
      
    NorthSouth Insurance Company Limited (Bermuda)    

Electroquil, S.A. (Guayaquil, Ecuador)   
      
    Oak Mountain Products, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Empresa Electrica Corani, S.A. (Bolivia)   
      
    Ohio River Valley Propane, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Energy Pipelines International Company (Delaware)   
      
    P.I.D.C. Aguaytia, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    EnerVest Olanta, LLC (Texas)   
      
    Pan Service Company (Delaware)    
 
    Environmental Wood Supply, LLC (Minnesota)   
      
    PanEnergy Corp (Delaware)    
 
    Eteselva S. R. L. (Peru)   
      
    Peru Energy Holdings, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    eVent Resources Holdings LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Power Construction Services Pty Ltd. (Western Australia)    
 
    eVent Resources I LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Reliant Services, LLC (Indiana)    
 
    Fiber Link, LLC (Indiana)   
      
    Seahorse do Brasil Servicos Maritimos Ltda. (Brazil)    
 
    Fort Drum Cogenco, Inc. (New York)   
      
    South Construction Company, Inc. (Indiana)    
 
    Gas Integral S.R.L. (Peru)   
      
    South Houston Green Power, L.P. (Delaware)    
 
    Generadora La Laguna Duke Energy International Guatemala y Cia., S.C.A. (Guatemala)   
      
    Southeastern Energy Services, Inc. (Delaware)    
 
    GNE Holdings, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Southern Power Company (North Carolina)    
 
    Green Power G.P., LLC (Texas)   
      
    Spruce Mountain Investments, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Green Power Holdings, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Spruce Mountain Products, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Green Power Limited, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    St. Paul Cogeneration, LLC (Minnesota)    
 
    Greenville Gas and Electric Light and Power Company (South Carolina)   
      
    SUEZ/VWNA/DEGS of Lansing, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Hidroelectrica Cerros Colorados, S.A. (Argentina)   
      
    SUEZ-DEGS of Lansing, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    IGC Aguaytia Partners, LLC (Cayman Islands)   
      
    SUEZ-DEGS of Orlando, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    II Tryon Investment Trading Society (North Carolina)   
      
    SUEZ-DEGS, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    Inversiones Duke Bolivia S.A. (Bolivia)   
      
    SYNCAP II, LLC (Delaware)    
 
    KO Transmission Company (Kentucky)   
      
    TEC Aguaytia, Ltd. (Bermuda)    
 
    Lansing Grand River Utilities, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Termoselva S. R. L. (Peru)    
 
    LH1, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Texas Eastern (Bermuda) Ltd. (Bermuda)    
 
    Lizacorp S.A. (Ecuador)   
      
    Texas Eastern Arabian Ltd. (Bermuda)    
 
    MCP, LLC (South Carolina)   
      
    Tri-State Improvement Company (Ohio)    
 
    Miami Power Corporation (Indiana)   
      
    UK Electric Power Limited (England)    
 
    Midlands Hydrocarbons (Bangladesh) Limited (England)   
      
    Wateree Power Company (South Carolina)    
 
    Morris Gasco, LLC (Delaware)   
      
    Western Carolina Power Company (North Carolina)    
 
    MP Supply, Inc. (North Carolina)   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.1              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements No. 333-157405, 333-146483 and 333-132996 on Form S-3 and Registration Statements
No. 333-132933 (including Post-effective Amendment No. 1 thereto), 333-134080, 333-141023 and 333-147132 on Form S-8 of our report dated February 27, 2009, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedules of Duke
Energy Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Duke Energy Corporation for the year ended
December 31, 2008.            /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      Charlotte, North Carolina      February 27, 2009   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 7
 dex232.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.2              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS             We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements No. 333-157405, 333-146483 and 333-132996 on Form S-3 and Registration Statements No.
333-132933 (including Post-effective Amendment No. 1 thereto), 333-134080, 333-141023 and 333-147132 on Form S-8 of Duke Energy Corporation of our report dated March 7, 2008 relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule of DCP Midstream, LLC and subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Duke Energy Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008.            /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      Denver, Colorado      February 27, 2009   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-24.1>
 8
 dex241.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1              DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION               Power of Attorney               FORM 10-K              Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d)        of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008        (Annual Report)             The undersigned  Duke Energy Corporation , a Delaware corporation and certain of its officers and/or directors, do each hereby
constitute and appoint David L. Hauser, David S. Maltz and Steven K. Young, and each of them, to act as attorneys-in-fact for and in the respective names, places and stead of the undersigned, to execute, seal, sign and file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission the Annual Report of said Duke Energy Corporation on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, of said Duke Energy Corporation and any and all amendments thereto, hereby granting to said attorneys-in-fact, and each of them,
full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite, necessary or proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned, or any of them, might or could do if
personally present, hereby ratifying and approving the acts of said attorneys-in-fact.            Executed as of the 19 th  day of February, 2009.          

DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION     

By:   
     
    / S /    J AMES  E.
R OGERS              

Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer    
 
         (Corporate Seal)            ATTEST:         

/ S /    S UE  C.
H ARRINGTON               Assistant Secretary   

/ S /    J AMES  E.
R OGERS               James E. Rogers   
      
    Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer     (Principal Executive Officer and Director)    

/ S /    D AVID  L.
H AUSER               David L. Hauser   
      
    Group Executive and     Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

/ S /    S TEVEN  K.
Y OUNG               Steven K. Young   
      
    Senior Vice President and     Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

/ S /    W ILLIAM  B ARNET ,
III              William Barnet, III   
      
  (Director)   

/ S /    G. A LEX  B ERNHARDT ,
S R .              G. Alex Bernhardt, Sr.   
      
  (Director)   

/ S /    M ICHAEL  G.
B ROWNING               Michael G. Browning   
      
  (Director)   

/ S /    D ANIEL  R.
D IMICCO               Daniel R. DiMicco   
      
  (Director)   

/ S /    A NN  M.
G RAY               Ann M. Gray   
      
  (Director)   

/ S /    J AMES  H. H ANCE ,
J R .              James H. Hance, Jr.   
      
  (Director)   

/ S /    J AMES  T.
R HODES               James T. Rhodes   
      
  (Director)   

Philip R. Sharp   
      
  (Director)   

/ S /    D UDLEY  S.
T AFT               Dudley S. Taft   
      
  (Director)   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 9
 dex242.htm
 CERTIFIED COPY OF RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD AUTHORIZING POWER OF ATTORNEY

Certified copy of Resolution of the Board authorizing Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.2              DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION              CERTIFIED RESOLUTIONS               Form 10-K Annual Report Resolutions               FURTHER RESOLVED , That each officer and director who may be required to execute such 2008 Form 10-K or any amendments thereto (whether on behalf of the Corporation or as an officer or director thereof or by attesting the seal of the
Corporation or otherwise) be and hereby is authorized to execute a Power of Attorney appointing David L. Hauser, David S. Maltz and Steven K. Young, and each of them, as true and lawful attorneys and agents to execute in his or her name, place and
stead (in any such capacity) such 2008 Form 10-K, as may be deemed necessary and proper by such officers, and any and all amendments thereto and all instruments necessary or advisable in connection therewith, to attest the seal of the Corporation
thereon and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, each of said attorneys and agents to have power to act with or without the others and to have full power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of each of
such officers and directors, or both, as the case may be, every act whatsoever necessary or advisable to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as any such officer or director might or could do in person.            * * * * * * *            I, MARC E. MANLY, Group Executive, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary of Duke Energy Corporation, do hereby certify that the
foregoing is a full, true and complete extract from the Minutes of the meeting of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of said Corporation with full authority delegated to it by the Board of Directors held on February 25, 2009, at
which meeting a quorum was present.             IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the Corporate Seal of said Duke Energy Corporation, this the 27 th  day of February, 2009.          

/ S /    M ARC  E.
M ANLY              
 
  Marc E. Manly, Group Executive, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary   

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO Certification 

EXHIBIT 31.1              CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             I, James E. Rogers, certify that:

1)  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Duke Energy Corporation;     

2)  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     

3)  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;     

4)  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and     

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5)  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and     

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
             Date: February 27, 2009          

/ S /    J AMES  E.
R OGERS              
 
    James E. Rogers     Chairman,
President and     Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CFO Certification 

EXHIBIT 31.2              CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             I, David L. Hauser, certify that:

1)  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Duke Energy Corporation;     

2)  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     

3)  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;     

4)  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and     

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5)  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and     

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
             Date: February 27, 2009          

/ S /    D AVID  L.
H AUSER              
 
    David L. Hauser     Group Executive
and     Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO Certification 

EXHIBIT 32.1              CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             In connection with the Annual Report of
Duke Energy Corporation ( Duke Energy ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James E. Rogers, Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Duke Energy.           

/ S /    J AMES  E.
R OGERS              
 
    James E. Rogers     Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer     February 27, 2009    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CFO Certification 

EXHIBIT 32.2              CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             In connection with the Annual Report of
Duke Energy Corporation ( Duke Energy ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, David L. Hauser, Group Executive and
Chief Financial Officer of Duke Energy, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and           

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Duke Energy.           

/ S /    D AVID  L.
H AUSER              
 
    David L. Hauser     Group
Executive and Chief Financial Officer     February 27, 2009    

</EX-32.2>

