<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100225_10-K_edgar_data_1063761_0001047469-10-001324_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8445654</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>331246</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>825117</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2116415</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2254624</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2308618</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>84</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-10-001324.hdr.sgml : 20100225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100225111202
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-10-001324
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001063761
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				046268599
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14469
		FILM NUMBER:		10632136

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438
		BUSINESS PHONE:		317-636-1600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORPORATE PROPERTY INVESTORS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GLssFNM6gFyBPO9z/j+ML65yXp6jxXnE2V52pYQqjGVhRHXRM1SVUwl/AMJLevSp
 cDaxk1QVleuN2EXMN1/JmA==

 0001047469-10-001324.txt : 20100225

10-K
 1
 a2196642z10-k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     

  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

225 West Washington Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204      (Address of principal executive offices) (ZIP Code)   

   (317) 636-1600      (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Title of each class

Name of each exchange 
on which registered

Common stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

8 3 / 8 % Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act). Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller company. See
the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller reporting company      

Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12-b of the
Act). Yes        No       

              The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $14,157 million based on the
closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 30, 2009.   

As
of January 31, 2010, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 289,976,654 and 8,000 shares of common stock and Class B common stock outstanding, respectively.   

Documents Incorporated By Reference     

              Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV; and portions of the Registrant's Proxy
Statement in connection with its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
December 31, 2009     

    TABLE OF CONTENTS     

Item No.

Page No.    

Part I    

1.   
      
     Business   

3   

1A.   
     
    Risk Factors   

8   

1B.   
     
    Unresolved Staff Comments   

12   

2.   
     
    Properties   

12   

3.   
     
    Legal Proceedings   

48   

4.   
     
    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

48   

Part II    

5.   
      
     Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

49   

6.   
     
    Selected Financial Data   

50   

7.   
     
    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

50   

7A.   
     
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk   

50   

8.   
     
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

50   

9.   
     
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

50   

9A.   
     
    Controls and Procedures   

50   

9B.   
     
    Other Information   

50   

Part III    

10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

51   

11.   
     
    Executive Compensation   

51   

12.   
     
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

51   

13.   
     
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence   

51   

14.   
     
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

51   

Part IV    

15.   
      
     Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules   

52   

Signatures      

53   

2  

Table of Contents    

Part I            

Item 1. Business            

              Simon Property Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real
estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real
estate properties. In this report, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlet  Centers, The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2009, we owned or held an interest in 321 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 162 regional malls, 41 Premium Outlet Centers, 67
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties acquired in the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition, and 15 other shopping centers or outlet centers in
41 states and Puerto Rico. Of the 36 properties acquired in The Mills portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers. We also own
an interest in one parcel of land held in the United States for future development. Internationally, as of December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in 51 European shopping centers
(France, Italy and Poland), eight Premium Outlet Centers in Japan, one Premium Outlet Center in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet Center in South Korea. Also, through joint venture arrangements we have a
24% interest in two shopping centers in Italy currently under development. On February 4, 2010, we and our partner entered into a definitive agreement to sell all of the interests in Simon
Ivanhoe S. .r.l, or Simon Ivanhoe, which owns seven shopping centers located in France and Poland.   

              For
a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2009, see the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" section of the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Other Policies     

              The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect
to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.   

Investment Policies      

While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may, at our discretion, invest in mortgages and other real estate interests
consistent with our qualification as a REIT. We do not currently intend to invest to a significant extent in mortgages or deeds of trust; however, we hold a mortgage note which results in us receiving
100% of the economics of a property. We may invest in participating or convertible mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow or any appreciation in the value of the property.   

              We
may invest in securities of other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage
ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification. These REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75%
of our total assets. In addition, at least 75% of our gross income must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents
from real property," dividends from other REITs and, in certain circumstances, interest from certain types of temporary investments. At least 95% of our income must be derived from such real property
investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.   

              Subject
to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be
in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire
all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.   

  3  

Table of Contents   

Financing Policies      

We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our ratio of debt to total assets or market value,
as defined. For example, the Operating Partnership's lines of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants that restrict the total amount of debt of the
Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related arrangement, and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements
contain other covenants requiring compliance with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for
our equity securities and the debt securities of the Operating Partnership.   

If
our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital through additional equity offerings, debt financing, creating joint ventures with existing
ownership interests in properties, retention of cash flows or a combination of these methods. Our ability to retain cash flows is limited by the requirement for REITs to distribute at least 90% of
their taxable income. We must also take into account taxes that would be imposed on undistributed taxable income. If the Board of Directors determines to raise additional equity capital, it may,
without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital in any
manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also may include additional
classes of preferred stock, which may be convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any subsequent offering of our securities. Any such
offering could dilute a stockholder's investment in us.   

              We
expect most future borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the Operating
Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any such indebtedness may be
secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or cross-collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or partially guaranteed by the Operating
Partnership. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly be required to do so.   

              On
December 8, 2009, the Operating Partnership entered into a new $3.565 billion unsecured revolving corporate credit facility which replaced its $3.5 billion
unsecured credit facility, or the Credit Facility, which expired on January 11, 2010. The new credit facility contains an accordion feature allowing the maximum borrowing capacity to expand to
$4.0 billion. The new credit facility matures on March 31, 2013. We issue debt securities through the Operating Partnership, but we may issue our debt securities which may be convertible
into capital stock or be accompanied by warrants to purchase capital stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables. The proceeds from any borrowings or financings may be used for one or
more of the following:   

financing acquisitions;           developing or redeveloping properties;           refinancing existing indebtedness;           working capital or capital improvements; or
          meeting the income distribution requirements applicable to REITs, if we have income without the receipt of cash sufficient
to enable us to meet such distribution requirements.    

We
may also finance acquisitions through the following:   

issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock;           issuance of additional units of limited partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership;           issuance of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;
          issuance of other securities; or           sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties.    

The
ability of the Operating Partnership to issue units of limited partnership interest to transferors of properties or other partnership interests may defer gain recognition for tax
purposes by the transferor. It may also be advantageous for us since there are ownership limits that restrict the number of shares of our capital stock that investors may own.   

  4  

Table of Contents   

              We
do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually limit additional
indebtedness on such properties. We also have covenants on our unsecured debt that limit our total secured debt.   

              Typically,
we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage loan on a
single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage interest on the property in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture with a third party,
or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities are structured so that they would not be
consolidated with us in the event we would ever become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms then available to us and whether the
proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose entities owning consolidated properties as
part of our consolidated indebtedness.   

Conflict of Interest Policies      

We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted
governance principles governing our affairs and the Board of Directors, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of the Board of Directors. In
addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees. At least a majority of the members of our Board of Directors must qualify as
independent under the listing standards for New York Stock Exchange companies and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family who are significant stockholders and/or unitholders in the Operating
Partnership. Any transaction between us and the Simons, including property acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space leases, must be approved by a majority of our
non-affiliated directors.   

              The
sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons and the other limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order to
avoid any conflict of interest between Simon Property and the limited partners of the Operating Partnership, our charter requires that at least six of our independent directors must authorize and
require the Operating Partnership to sell any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by each of the Simons contain
covenants limiting the ability of the Simons to participate in certain shopping center activities in North America.   

Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities      

We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT, unless the Board of Directors determines that it
is no longer in our best interests to so qualify as a REIT. The Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have
authority to offer shares of our capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may
issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under
the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we
participate.   

    Competition     

              The retail industry is dynamic and competitive. We compete with numerous merchandise distribution channels including regional malls,
outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. Internet retailing sites and catalogs also provide retailers with distribution options beyond
existing brick and mortar retail properties and the numerous projects in development by commercial developers, real estate companies and other owners of retail real estate. The existence of
competitive alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents we can obtain. This results in competition for both the tenants to occupy the
properties that we develop and manage as well as for the acquisition of prime sites (including   

  5  

Table of Contents   

land
for development and operating properties). We believe that there are numerous factors that make our properties highly desirable to retailers including:   

the quality and diversity of our properties;           our management and operational expertise;           our extensive experience and relationships with retailers and lenders;
          our mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances; and           our ability to reduce the total
 occupancy cost of our tenants.    

Certain Activities     

              During the past three years, we have:   

issued 6,133,556 shares of common stock upon the exchange of units of limited partnership interest of the Operating
Partnership, or units;           issued 753,824 restricted shares of common stock, net of forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive
Plan, or the 1998 Plan;           issued 694,981 shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options under the 1998 Plan;          purchased 595,000 shares of common stock;           issued 5,203,763 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 6,502,979 shares of Series I 6%
Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, or Series I preferred stock;           issued 11,876,076 shares of common stock as part of the quarterly dividends to common stockholders;
         issued 23,000,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $50.00 per share;          issued
17,250,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $31.50 per share;          redeemed all of the outstanding 3,000,000 shares of Series G
preferred stock;         
  issued 812,381 shares of Series I preferred stock upon the exchange of Series I 6% Convertible
Perpetual Preferred Units;           issued 4,000 shares of common stock upon conversion and retirement of all 4,000 shares of Class C
common stock;           borrowed a maximum amount of $2.6 billion under the prior Credit Facility; the outstanding amount of borrowings
under this facility as of December 31, 2009 was $446.1 million, all related to the U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings;           entered into our new
$3.565 billion credit facility on December 8, 2009;           provided annual reports containing financial statements certified by our independent registered public accounting firm and
quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders;           not made loans to other entities or persons, including our officers and directors, other than to
certain joint venture
properties;           not invested in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control, other than the Operating
Partnership, certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and to acquire interests in real estate;           not underwritten securities of other issuers; and           not engaged in the purchase and sale or turnover of investments for the purpose of trading.    

Employees     

              At January 5, 2010, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,200 persons at various properties and offices throughout the
United States, of which approximately 1,900 were part-time. Approximately 1,000 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana and 100 were located
at our Chelsea offices in Roseland, New Jersey.   

    Corporate Headquarters     

Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is
(317) 636-1600.   

    Available Information     

              We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or
Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding   

  6  

Table of Contents   

our
website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act
are available or may be accessed free of charge through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information" section of our Internet website as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to
be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

              The
following corporate governance documents are also available through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance" section of our Internet website or may be obtained in
print form by request of our Investor Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Governance and
Nominating Committee Charter, and Executive Committee Charter.   

In
addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE.   

    Executive Officers of the Registrant     

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of December 31, 2009.   

Name    
     
   Age    
     
   Position    

David Simon  

48  
     
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard S. Sokolov  

60  
     
   President and Chief Operating Officer  

Gary L. Lewis  

51  
     
   Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing  

Stephen E. Sterrett  

54  
     
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

John Rulli  

53  
     
   Executive Vice President and President   Simon Management Group  

James M. Barkley  

58  
     
   General Counsel; Secretary  

Andrew A. Juster  

57  
     
   Executive Vice President and Treasurer  

Steven K. Broadwater  

43  
     
   Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  

The
executive officers of Simon Property serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. For biographical information of David Simon, Richard S. Sokolov, Stephen E.
Sterrett, James M. Barkley and John Rulli, see Item 10 of this report.   

              Mr. Lewis
is the Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing of Simon Property. Mr. Lewis joined Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, in 1986 and
held various positions with MSA and Simon Property prior to becoming Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing. In 2002 he was appointed to Executive Vice President  
Leasing and in 2007 he became Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing.   

              Mr. Juster
serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President and Treasurer. He joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has
held various positions with Simon Property. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008.   

              Mr. Broadwater
serves as Simon Property's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and prior to that as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Broadwater
joined Simon Property in 2004 and was promoted to Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.   

  7  

Table of Contents    

Item 1A. Risk Factors            

                 The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in
forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should
not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties and we may update them in our future periodic reports.     

Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets     

We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.      

As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the related premium and discount, totaled
$18.6 billion. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our
debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property.
Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from this is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the
property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.   

Disruption in the credit markets or downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our ability to access external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service
requirements.      

We depend primarily on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can
meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. We cannot assure
you that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.   

Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.      

Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The
credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and
the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund
our growth, adverse changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.   

Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.      

We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a
portion of our variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful.   

              Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging
agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.   

    Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations     

We face risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties.      

We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, and these activities are subject to
various risks. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/expansion opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not
perform   

  8  

Table of Contents   

  as
well as expected. We are subject to other risks in connection with any acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following:   

construction costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;          we may not be
able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans on favorable terms, if at all;          we may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;
        
 occupancy rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and          we may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage
lenders and joint venture partners, and those
consents may be withheld.    

If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.   

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.      

Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a
result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a property, we cannot
assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment.   

    Environmental Risks     

As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.      

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous
owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose
liability regardless of whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or
removal of asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the
air. Those laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain,
or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs
of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The
presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.   

Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.      

Although we believe that our portfolio is in substantial compliance with Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These
environmental audits have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
However, we cannot assure you that:   

existing environmental studies with respect to the portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities;          any previous owner,
occupant or tenant of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;        
  the current environmental condition of the portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of
nearby properties, or by other unrelated third parties; or           future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the
interpretation thereof) will not result in environmental liabilities.    
 
  9  

Table of Contents   

    Retail Operations Risks     

Ongoing economic conditions are adversely affecting the general retail environment.      

Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally,
including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence
and terrorist activities. The economy appears to be recovering from the recent recession during which consumer spending in the United States declined significantly. The unemployment rate remains
relatively high and consumer confidence remains relatively depressed. We derive our cash flow from operations primarily from retail tenants, many of whom are currently under considerable economic
stress. A significant deterioration in our cash flow from operations could require us to curtail planned capital expenditures or seek alternative sources of financing.   

We may not be able to lease newly developed properties and renew leases and relet space at existing properties.      

We may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections.
Also, when leases for our existing properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than
the current lease terms. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected.   

Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these
tenants.      

Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our
properties could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store
and larger store, also referred to as "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We do not control the
disposition of those department stores or larger stores that we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be
entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges.
Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline
significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or
anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties.   

We face potential adverse effects from the increasing number of tenant bankruptcies.      

Although bankruptcy filings by retailers occur regularly in the course of our operations, the number of tenant bankruptcies has
increased in the past two years. We continually seek to re-lease vacant spaces resulting from tenant terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it
more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our
re-leasing strategy.   

    Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties     

We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance
them.      

As of December 31, 2009, we owned interests in 182 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those,
18 properties are included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for the other 164 properties under the equity method of accounting, which we refer to as joint venture
properties. We serve as general partner or property manager for 93 of these 164 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as selling or refinancing these properties, require the
consent of the other owners. Of the properties for which we do not serve as general partner or property manager, 61 are in our international joint ventures. The other owners also have other
participating rights that we consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the properties' assets. The remaining joint venture   

  10  

Table of Contents   

  properties
are managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely affect our ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.   

The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint venture properties.      

Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property. As of
December 31, 2009, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees to support $47.2 million of our total $6.5 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness. A
default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty or letter of credit.   

Other Factors Affecting Our Business     

Our Common Area Maintenance (CAM) contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants.      

CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services,
administrative, property and liability insurance costs, and
security costs. We historically have used leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases. We have made a concerted effort to convert our leases to a fixed payment
methodology which fixes our tenants' CAM contributions and should in turn reduce the volatility of and limitations on the recoveries we collect from our tenants for the reimbursement of our property
operating expenses. However, with respect to both variable and fixed payment methodologies, the amount of CAM charges we bill to our tenants may not allow us to recover all of these operating costs.   

We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.      

Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retailing such as catalogs and e-commerce websites.
Competition may come from regional malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers, both existing as well as future development projects. The presence of competitive
alternatives affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. Renovations and expansions at competing sites could also negatively affect our properties.   

              We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified
management.   

Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.      

We hold interests in joint venture properties that operate in Italy, France, Poland, Japan, Korea, and Mexico, and we have a minority
investment in common shares of a U.K. retail real estate company. We may pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United States. International development and ownership activities carry
risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These risks include:   

adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;           changes in foreign political and economic environments,
regionally, nationally, and locally;           challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and
litigation;           differing lending practices;           differences in cultures;           changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;           difficulties in managing international
operations; and           obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.    

Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented approximately 6.3% of the GLA of all of our
properties at December 31, 2009), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.   

  11  

Table of Contents   

Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.      

We maintain commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the
United States through wholly-owned captive insurance entities and other self-insurance mechanisms. Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company,
Ltd. are our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries, and have agreed to indemnify our general liability carrier for a specific layer of losses for the properties that are covered under these
arrangements. The carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through these
captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt
or other financial obligations related to the property.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion per
occurrence for certified foreign acts of terrorism and $500 million per occurrence for non-certified domestic acts of terrorism. The current federal laws which provide this coverage
are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks in high profile markets could adversely affect our property values,
revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

    Risks Relating to Federal Income Taxes     

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT.      

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the
Internal Revenue Code. We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner which allows us to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We intend to continue to operate in
this manner. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of
stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. REIT qualification is governed by highly technical and complex provisions for which there are only limited
judicial or administrative interpretations. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.   

If
we fail to comply with those provisions, we may be subject to monetary penalties or ultimately to possible disqualification as a REIT. If such events occurs, and if available relief
provisions do not apply:   

we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;          we will be subject to corporate
level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income
at regular corporate rates; and           unless entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for
the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.    

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments            

None.   

Item 2. Properties            

United States Properties      

Our U.S. properties primarily consist of regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, The Mills, community/lifestyle centers, and other
properties. These properties contain an aggregate of approximately 244.8 million square feet of gross leasable area, or GLA, of which we own approximately 152.3 million square feet.
Total estimated retail sales at the properties in 2009 were approximately $58 billion.   

              Regional
malls typically contain at least one traditional department store anchor or a combination of anchors and big box retailers with a wide variety of smaller stores connecting the
anchors. Additional stores are usually located along the perimeter of the parking area. Our 162 regional malls are generally enclosed centers and range in size from   

  12  

Table of Contents   

approximately
400,000 to 2.3 million square feet of GLA. Our regional malls contain in the aggregate more than 18,600 occupied stores, including approximately 710 anchors, which are mostly
national retailers. For comparative purposes, we separate the information in this section on the 16 regional malls acquired from The Mills Corporation in 2007, or the Mills Regional Malls, from the
information on our other regional malls.   

              Premium
Outlet Centers generally contain a wide variety of designer and manufacturer stores located in an open-air center. Our 41 Premium Outlet Centers range in size from
approximately 200,000 to 850,000 square feet of GLA. The Premium Outlet Centers are generally located near major metropolitan areas and tourist destinations including New York City, Los Angeles,
Boston, Palm Springs, Orlando, Las Vegas, and Honolulu.   

              The
Mills generally range in size from 1.0 million to 2.3 million square feet of GLA and are located in major metropolitan areas. They have a combination of traditional
mall, outlet center, and big box retailers and entertainment uses. The Mills Regional Malls typically range in size from 700,000 to 1.3 million square feet of GLA and contain a wide variety of
national retailers.   

              Community/lifestyle
centers are generally unenclosed and smaller than our regional malls. Our 67 community/lifestyle centers generally range in size from approximately 100,000 to
900,000 square feet of GLA. Community/lifestyle centers are designed to serve a larger trade area and typically contain anchor stores and other national retail tenants, which occupy a significant
portion of the GLA of the center. We also own traditional community shopping centers that focus primarily on value-oriented and convenience goods and services. These centers are usually anchored by a
supermarket, discount retailer, or drugstore and are designed to service a neighborhood area. Finally, we own open-air centers adjacent to our regional malls designed to take advantage of
the drawing power of the mall.   

              We
also have interests in 15 other shopping centers or outlet centers. These properties range in size from approximately 85,000 to 1.0 million square feet of GLA, are considered
non-core to our business model, and in total represent less than 1% of our total operating income before depreciation.   

The
following table provides representative data for our U.S. properties on a gross basis as of December 31, 2009:   

As
of December 31, 2009, approximately 92.1% of the owned GLA in regional malls and the retail space of the other properties was leased, approximately 97.9% of owned GLA in the
Premium Outlet Centers was leased, approximately 93.9% of the owned GLA for The Mills and 89.3% of owned GLA for the Mills Regional Malls was leased, and approximately 90.7% of owned GLA in the
community/lifestyle centers was leased.   

              We
hold a 100% interest in 200 of our properties, effectively control 18 properties in which we have a joint venture interest, and hold the remaining 103 properties
through unconsolidated joint venture interests. We are the managing or co-managing general partner or member of 311 properties. Substantially all of our joint venture properties are
subject to rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale rights for all partners which are customary in real estate partnership agreements and the industry. Our partners in
our joint ventures may initiate these provisions at any time, which will result in either the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire their partnership interest or the disposal of our
partnership interest.   

              The
following property table summarizes certain data for our regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, The Mills, the Mills Regional Malls and community/lifestyle centers located in the
United States, including Puerto Rico, as of December 31, 2009.   

  13  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

14  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

15  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

16  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

17  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

18  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

19  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

20  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

21  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

9.  
     
   Clinton Crossing Premium Outlets  
     
   CT  
     
   Clinton (New Haven)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.4  
  %  
     
   276,164  
     
   Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Liz Claiborne, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger  

10.  
     
   Columbia Gorge Premium Outlets  
     
   OR  
     
   Troutdale (Portland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

95.8  
  %  
     
   163,885  
     
   Adidas, Calvin Klein, Carter's, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Guess, Levi's, Liz Claiborne, Tommy Hilfiger  

11.  
     
   Desert Hills Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Cabazon (Palm Springs)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.9  
  %  
     
   501,771  
     
   Burberry, Coach, Dior, Elie Tahari, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, True Religion, Yves Saint Laurent, Zegna  

12.  
     
   Edinburgh Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Edinburgh (Indianapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.0  
  %  
     
   377,784  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

13.  
     
   Folsom Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Folsom (Sacramento)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.8  
  %  
     
   296,035  
     
   BCBG Max Azria, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Nautica, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

14.  
     
   Gilroy Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Gilroy (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

96.1  
  %  
     
   577,909  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Hugo Boss, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion  

15.  
     
   Houston Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Houston  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2008  

99.4  
  %  
     
   425,500  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Juicy Couture, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, True Religion, Tommy Hilfiger  

16.  
     
   Jackson Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Jackson  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.9  
  %  
     
   285,833  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Liz Claiborne, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

17.  
     
   Jersey Shore Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Tinton Falls  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2008  

97.0  
  %  
     
   434,367  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Brooks Brothers, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Guess, J. Crew, Kate Spade, Michael Kors, Theory, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Under Armour  

18.  
     
   Johnson Creek Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Johnson Creek (Milwaukee)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

89.4  
  %  
     
   277,672  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Columbia Sportswear, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Old Navy, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

19.  
     
   Kittery Premium Outlets  
     
   ME  
     
   Kittery  
     
   Ground Lease (2014)  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

97.4  
  %  
     
   264,771  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

20.  
     
   Las Americas Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   San Diego  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

98.3  
  %  
     
   560,873  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Sony, Tommy Bahama, True Religion  

22  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

21.  
     
   Las Vegas Outlet Center  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   469,046  
     
   Adidas, Aeropostale, Ann Taylor, Bose, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Gymboree, Levi's, Liz Claiborne, Nautica, Nike, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

22.  
     
   Las Vegas Premium Outlets  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2003  

100.0  
  %  
     
   538,681  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Coach, David Yurman, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Elie Tahari, Etro, Hugo Boss, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tag Heuer, Ted Baker,
 True Religion  

23.  
     
   Leesburg Corner Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Leesburg (Washington D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

97.1  
  %  
     
   517,700  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Coach, Crate   Barrel, Diesel, DKNY, Juicy Couture, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Under Armour,
Williams-Sonoma  

24.  
     
   Liberty Village Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Flemington  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

94.1  
  %  
     
   164,260  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Liz Claiborne, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

25.  
     
   Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Michigan City  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

96.0  
  %  
     
   454,315  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

26.  
     
   Napa Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Napa  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.6  
  %  
     
   179,386  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Nautica, Tommy Hilfiger  

27.  
     
   North Georgia Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Dawsonville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.2  
  %  
     
   539,982  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger,
Williams-Sonoma  

28.  
     
   Orlando Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   549,434  
     
   Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Dior, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tag Heuer, Theory  

29.  
     
   Osage Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   MO  
     
   Osage Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

91.6  
  %  
     
   393,051  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

30.  
     
   Petaluma Village Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Petaluma (Santa Rosa)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

96.6  
  %  
     
   195,968  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, Nike, Puma, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

31.  
     
   Philadelphia Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Limerick (Philadelphia)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2007  

96.9  
  %  
     
   549,106  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware,
Sony  

23  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

32.  
     
   Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Mercedes (McAllen)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2006  

96.9  
  %  
     
   584,790  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy
Hilfiger  

33.  
     
   Round Rock Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Round Rock (Austin)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2006  

98.0  
  %  
     
   488,903  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger  

34.  
     
   Seattle Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   Tulalip (Seattle)  
     
   Ground Lease (2034)  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2005  

99.1  
  %  
     
   443,760  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Juicy Couture, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger  

35.  
     
   St. Augustine Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   St. Augustine (Jacksonville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

97.0  
  %  
     
   328,557  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

36.  
     
   The Crossings Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Tannersville  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2019)(7)  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.3  
  %  
     
   411,114  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Guess, J.Crew, Liz Claiborne, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

37.  
     
   Vacaville Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Vacaville  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.3  
  %  
     
   437,650  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gucci, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Tommy Bahama, Tommy
Hilfiger  

38.  
     
   Waikele Premium Outlets  
     
   HI  
     
   Waipahu (Honolulu)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.5  
  %  
     
   209,937  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, Michael Kors,Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion  

39.  
     
   Waterloo Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Waterloo  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

96.5  
  %  
     
   417,549  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, VF Outlet  

40.  
     
   Woodbury Commons Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Central Valley (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   844,734  
     
   Banana Republic, Burberry, Chanel, Chloe, Coach, Dior, Dolce   Gabbana, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Nike, Oscar de la Renta, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off
5th, Salvatore Ferragmo, Theory, Tory Burch, Versace, Yves St. Laurent  

41.  
     
   Wrentham Village Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Wrentham (Boston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.7  
  %  
     
   635,997  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Lacoste, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragmo, Sony,
Williams-Sonoma, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Under Armour  

Total U.S. Premium Outlet Centers GLA   

17,144,563   

24  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

25  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

26  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

27  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

28  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    

Mills Properties    

Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    

The Mills     
     
   State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

Property Name

1.  
      
    Arizona Mills  
      
    AZ  
      
    Tempe (Phoenix)  
      
    Fee  

25.0%  
   (4)  
    Acquired 2007  

93.8  
   %  
      
    1,244,726  
      
    Marshalls, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, Burlington Coat Factory, Sears Appliance Outlet, Gameworks, Sports Authority, Ross Dress for Less, JCPenney Outlet, Group USA, Harkins Cinemas, IMAX
Theatre, F.Y.E., Sea Life Center(6)  

2.  
     
   Arundel Mills  
     
   MD  
     
   Hanover (Baltimore)  
     
   Fee  

29.6%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.7  
  %  
     
   1,293,011  
     
   Bass Pro Shops, Bed Bath   Beyond, Best Buy, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Dave   Buster's, F.Y.E., H M, Medieval Times, Modell's, Neiman Marcus Last Call,
OFF 5TH Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Old Navy, T.J. MAXX, Cinemark Egyptian 24 Theatres  

3.  
     
   Colorado Mills  
     
   CO  
     
   Lakewood (Denver)  
     
   Fee  

18.8%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

83.1  
  %  
     
   1,098,098  
     
   Borders Books Music Caf , Eddie Bauer Outlet, Last Call Clearance Center from Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, OFF 5TH Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Sports Authority, Super Target, United Artists
Theatre  

4.  
     
   Concord Mills  
     
   NC  
     
   Concord (Charlotte)  
     
   Fee  

29.6%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.3  
  %  
     
   1,333,923  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, FYE, The Children's Place Outlet, Dave   Buster's, NIKE, TJ Maxx, Group USA, Sun   Ski, AC Moore,
Off Broadway Shoes, Old Navy, Bed Bath   Beyond, NASCAR Speedpark, AMC Theatres, Best Buy(6)  

5.  
     
   Discover Mills  
     
   GA  
     
   Lawrenceville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

94.5  
  %  
     
   1,183,079  
     
   Bass Pro Shops, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Medieval Times, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, ROSS Dress for Less, Sears Appliance Outlet,
Sun   Ski Sports, Urban Behavior, Spaha Skatepark, Dave   Buster's, AMC Theatres  

6.  
     
   Franklin Mills  
     
   PA  
     
   Philadelphia  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

87.0  
  %  
     
   1,719,292  
     
   Dave   Buster's, JC Penney Outlet Store, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls HomeGoods, Modell's Sporting Goods, Group USA, Bed Bath   Beyond, Sam Ash Music, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, Last Call
Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shores, Sears Appliance Outlet, H M, Spaha Skatepark, AMC Theatres  

7.  
     
   Grapevine Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Grapevine (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

29.6%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

96.3  
  %  
     
   1,776,870  
     
   Bed, Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Forever 21, Group USA The Clothing Co. JCPenney Outlet, Marshalls, NIKE, OFF 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, Old Navy,
Virgin Megastore, Gameworks, AMC Theatres, Dr. Pepper Star Center, Sun   Ski Sports, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Sears Appliance Outlet, Bass Pro Outdoor World, Spaha Skatepark, Off Broadway Shoes(6)  

8.  
     
   Great Mall  
     
   CA  
     
   Milpitas (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

24.5%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

94.9  
  %  
     
   1,355,734  
     
   Last Call Neiman Marcus, Sports Authority, Group USA, Old Navy, Kohl's, Dave   Busters, H M, Sears Appliance Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, NIKE, Century Theatres,
 Bed Bath   Beyond, XXI Forever  

9.  
     
   Gurnee Mills  
     
   IL  
     
   Gurnee (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

95.7  
  %  
     
   1,810,682  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath   Beyond, Burlington Coat Factory, H   M, Kohl's, Marshall's Home Goods, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Nickles   Dimes, Sears Grand, The Sports
Authority, TJ Maxx, VF Outlet, Marcus Cinemas, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Value City Furniture  

29  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

10.  
     
   Katy Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Katy (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

31.3%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

89.9  
  %  
     
   1,554,899  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath and Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, F.Y.E.-For Your Entertainment, Marshalls, Neiman Marcus Last Call Clearance Center, Nike Factory Store, Off 5th Saks Fifth
Avenue Outlet, Sun   Ski Sports, AMC Theatres, Old Navy, Off Broadway Shoes, XXI Forever  

11.  
     
   Ontario Mills  
     
   CA  
     
   Ontario  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

93.2  
  %  
     
   1,476,974  
     
   Burlington Coat Factory, Totally for Kids, NIKE, Gameworks, The Children's Place Outlet, Marshalls, JCPenney Outlet, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Nordstrom Rack, Dave  
Busters, Group USA, Sam Ash Music, Off Broadway Shoes, AMC Theatres, H M, F.Y.E., Second Spin  

12.  
     
   Opry Mills  
     
   TN  
     
   Nashville  
     
   Fee  

24.5%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

97.6  
  %  
     
   1,159,314  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Dave   Buster's, The Gibson Showcase, Bed Bath   Beyond, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Barnes   Noble, Old Navy, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Nike Factory
Store, Sun   Ski Sports, BLACKLION, Regal Cinemas, XXI Forever, VF Outlet  

13.  
     
   Potomac Mills  
     
   VA  
     
   Prince William (Washington, D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.1  
  %  
     
   1,550,514  
     
   Group USA, Marshall's, TJ Maxx, Sears Appliance Outlet, Old Navy, JCPenney Outlet, Urban Behavior, Burlington Coat Factory, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Nordstrom Rack, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Costco
Warehouse, The Children's Place, AMC Theatres, Modell's Sporting Goods, Books-A-Million, H M, Last Call Neiman Marcus, XXI Forever  

14.  
     
   Sawgrass Mills  
     
   FL  
     
   Sunrise (Miami)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.8  
  %  
     
   2,251,047  
     
   American Signature Home, Beall's Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Brandsmart USA, Burlington Coat Factory, Gameworks, JCPenney Outlet Store, Marshalls, Neiman Marcus Last Call Clearance Center, Nike Factory Store,
Nordstrom Rack, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Ron Jon Surf Shop, The Sports Authority, Super Target, TJ Maxx, VF Factory Outlet, Wannado City, FYE, Off Broadway Shoes, Regal Cinemas, GAP Outlet, Books-A-Million  

15.  
     
   St. Louis Mills  
     
   MO  
     
   Hazelwood (St. Louis)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

80.8  
  %  
     
   1,174,876  
     
   Bed Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Cabela's, iceZONE, Marshalls MegaStore, NASCAR SpeedPark, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Sears Appliance Outlet, The Children's Place Outlet, Regal
Cinemas, Plan 9 Skatepark  

16.  
     
   The Block at Orange  
     
   CA  
     
   Orange (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

92.1  
  %  
     
   720,973  
     
   Dave   Buster's, Vans Skatepark, Lucky Strike Lanes, Borders Books   Music, Hilo Hattie, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, AMC Theatres, Nike Factory Store, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoes,
H M(6)  

Subtotal The Mills    

22,704,012   

30  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

31  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

32  

Table of Contents   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    This
property is managed by a third party.
      (2)    Our
direct and indirect interests in some of the properties held as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on distributions in favor of other
partners or us.
      (3)    The
date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option available to the operating entity under the ground lease. In a majority of the ground
leases, we have a right of first refusal or the right to purchase the lessor's interest. Unless otherwise indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at least 50% of its respective
property.
      (4)    Joint
venture properties accounted for under the equity method.
      (5)    Regional
Malls Executed leases for all company-owned GLA in mall stores, excluding majors. Premium Outlet Centers Executed leases
for all company-owned GLA (or total center GLA). Community/Lifestyle Centers   Executed leases for all company-owned GLA including majors and mall stores.
      (6)    Indicates
anchor or major that is currently under development.
      (7)    Indicates
ground lease covers less than 50% of the acreage of this property.
      (8)    Indicates
vacant anchor space(s).
      (9)    The
lease at the Mall at Chestnut Hill includes the entire premises including land and building.
      (10)    Indicates
ground lease covers outparcel only.
      (11)    Indicates
vacant anchor owned by another company, but we still collect rent and/or fees under an agreement.
      (12)    We
receive substantially all the economic benefit of the property due to a preference or advance.
      (13)    Outside
partner receives substantially all of the economic benefit due to a partner preference.
      (14)    We
own a mortgage note that encumbers Pheasant Lane Mall that entitles us to 100% of the economics of this property.
      (15)    Our
indirect ownership interest is through an approximately 76% ownership interest in Kravco Simon Investments.
      (16)    Indicates
anchor has announced its intent to close this location.
      (17)    Mall  
Freestanding GLA includes office space as follows:    

33  

Table of Contents    

    International Properties     

              Our ownership interests in properties outside the United States are primarily owned through joint venture arrangements. However, we
have a direct minority investment in Liberty International, PLC, or Liberty, as further described below.   

European Investments      

The following summarizes our joint venture investments in Europe and the underlying countries in which these joint ventures own and
operate real estate properties as of December 31, 2009:   

Joint Venture Investment

Ownership 
Interest    
     
   Properties open 
and operating    
     
   Countries of Operation    

Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A., or GCI  

49.0  
  %  
     
   44  
     
   Italy  

Simon Ivanhoe  

50.0  
  %  
     
   7  
     
   France, Poland  

In
addition, we jointly hold with a third party an interest in one parcel of land for development near Paris, France outside of these two joint ventures. Simon Ivanhoe and GCI are fully
integrated European retail real estate developers, owners and managers.   

              Our
properties in Europe consist primarily of hypermarket-anchored shopping centers. Substantially all of our European properties are anchored by either the hypermarket retailer Auchan,
primarily in Italy, who is also our partner in GCI, or are anchored by the hypermarket Carrefour in France and Poland. Certain of the properties in Italy are subject to leaseholds whereby GCI leases
all or a portion of the premises from a third party who is entitled to receive substantially all the economic benefits of that portion of the properties. Auchan and Carrefour
are the two largest hypermarket operators in Europe. These centers comprise over 13.4 million square feet of GLA and were 95.9% leased as of December 31, 2009.   

              On
February 4, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc., or Ivanhoe Cambridge, entered into a definitive agreement to sell all of the interests in Simon
Ivanhoe which owns seven shopping centers located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners will receive consideration of  715 million for their
interests, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We expect our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe to be approximately $300 million. The transaction
is scheduled to close during the first half of 2010, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals.   

              We
and Ivanhoe Cambridge have the right to participate with Unibail-Rodamco in the potential development of up to five new retail projects in the Simon Ivanhoe pipeline, subject to
customary approval rights. We will own a 25% interest in any of these projects in which we agree to participate.   

Other International Investments      

We also hold real estate interests in eight joint venture properties in Japan, one joint venture property in Mexico, and one joint
venture property in Korea. The eight Japanese Premium Outlet Centers operate in various cities throughout Japan and are held in a joint venture with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. These centers comprise
over 2.4 million square feet of GLA and were 99.6% leased as of December 31, 2009.   

The
following summarizes our holdings in these international joint ventures and the underlying countries in which these joint ventures own and operate real estate properties as of
December 31, 2009:   

Holdings

Ownership 
Interest    
     
   Properties open 
and operating    
     
   Countries of Operation    

Chelsea Japan Co. Ltd.  

40.0  
  %  
     
   8  
     
   Japan  

Premium Outlets Punta Norte (Mexico City)  

50.0  
  %  
     
   1  
     
   Mexico  

Yeoju Premium Outlets (Seoul)  

50.0  
  %  
     
   1  
     
   South Korea  

In
2009, we completed construction and opened Ami Premium Outlets, a 224,500 square foot center located outside Tokyo, Japan. We have a 40% interest in this property consistent with the
ownership structure of our other Japanese investments. We also completed construction and opened a 171,800 square foot expansion at Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets in Hyougo-ken,
Japan. Also in December 2009, we recognized a loss on our joint venture interests in   

  34  

Table of Contents   

our
shopping centers in China. We sold our interests to affiliates of our Chinese partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million.   

              We
hold a minority interest in Liberty which is a U.K. Real Estate Investment Trust that operates regional shopping centers and owns other prime retail assets throughout the U.K.
Liberty is a U.K. FTSE 100 listed company, with shareholders' funds of  3.2 billion and property investments of  6.1 billion, of which its U.K. regional
shopping centers comprise 70%. Assets of the group under control or joint control amount to  9.3 billion. Our interest in Liberty is less than 6% of its outstanding shares. We
adjust the carrying value of this investment quarterly using quoted market prices, including a related foreign exchange component.   

              The
following property table summarizes certain data for our properties located in Europe, Japan, Mexico, and Korea at December 31, 2009.   

  35  

Table of Contents    

   Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Property Table     

36  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Property Table     

37  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Property Table     

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    All
gross leasable area listed in square feet.      (2)    This
property is held partially in fee and partially encumbered by a leasehold on the premise which entitles the lessor to the majority of the economics of
the portion of the property subject to the leasehold.      (3)    These
properties are encumbered by a leasehold on the entire premises which entitles the lessor the majority of the economics of the property.     (4)    Represents
the sales area of the anchor and excludes any warehouse/storage areas.      (5)    Gallerie
Commerciali Italia owns 100% of the shopping gallery at this center which consists of 177,600 sf of leaseable area. In addition, Galleria
Commerciali Italia owns a 40% interest in the retail parks at this center, which consist of 446,900 sf of leasable area.    
 
  38  

Table of Contents    

Land      

We have direct or indirect ownership interests in approximately 700 acres of land held in the United States for future development.   

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency      

Due to the size of our portfolio, we focus on energy efficiency as a core sustainability strategy. Through the continued use of energy
conservation practices, energy efficiency projects, and continuous monitoring and reporting, we have reduced our energy consumption at comparable properties every year since 2003. As a result,
excluding new developments and expansions, we reduced the electricity usage over which we have direct control by 238 million kWhs since 2003. This represents a 17% percent reduction in
electricity usage across a portfolio of comparable properties and reflects an annual value of over $27.5 million in avoided operating
costs. Our documented reduction in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our energy management efforts is 140,000 metric tons CO2e.   

We
were awarded    NAREIT's Leader in the Light Award    for the fifth year in a row. We are the only company to have achieved the Leader in the
Light distinction every single year since NAREIT launched the program in 2005. We were included in the 2009 Carbon Disclosure Project's Global 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. The 2009 Carbon
Disclosure Leadership Index highlights 50 companies worldwide that have displayed the most professional approach to corporate governance with respect to climate change disclosure practices. We were
the only real estate company to be recognized.   

Mortgage Financing on Properties      

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages and other indebtedness encumbering our properties, and the
properties held by our domestic and international joint venture arrangements, and also our unsecured corporate debt. Substantially all of the mortgage and property related debt is nonrecourse to us.   

  39  

Table of Contents    

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES       As of December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

40  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)    

41  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)    

42  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)    

43  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)    

44  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)    

(Footnotes on following page)     

  45  

Table of Contents   

   (Footnotes for preceding pages)   

(1)    Variable
rate loans based on LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 56 bps to 450 bps. LIBOR as of December 31, 2009 was 0.23%.
      (2)    Requires
monthly payment of interest only.
      (3)    Includes
applicable extension available at the Operating Partnership's option.
      (4)    Loans
secured by these three Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (5)    We
have executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on $200 million of this loan at 4.35%.
      (6)    Loans
secured by these Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted. Factory Stores of America includes Boaz, Georgetown, Graceville, Lebanon,
Nebraska City and Story City.
      (7)    Loans
secured by these three Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (8)    Loan
is secured by The Domain Shopping Center, Palms Crossing, and Shops at Arbor Walk and is cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (9)    Loans
secured by these three Properties are cross-collateralized.
      (10)    Loans
secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized.
      (11)    Associated
with these loans are interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate of the loans at the all-in rate presented.
      (12)    Variable
rate loans based on Yen LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 35 bps to 187.5 bps. Yen LIBOR as of December 31, 2009 was 0.1650%.
      (13)    Lender
also participates in a percentage of certain gross receipts above a specified base. This threshold was met and additional interest was paid in 2009.
      (14)    Requires
semi-annual payments of interest only.
      (15)    On
December 8, 2009, we entered into a new unsecured revolving corporate credit facility providing an initial borrowing capacity of
$3.565 billion. The new facility contains an accordian feature up to $4.0 billion and will mature on March 31, 2013. The base interest on the credit facility is LIBOR plus 210
basis points. The balance as of December 31, 2009 reflects interest at LIBOR plus 37.5 basis points as the borrowings on the new facility were not drawn until January 5, 2010. As of
December 31, 2009, $3.1 billion was available after outstanding borrowings and letter of credits.
      (16)    Amounts
shown in USD equivalent. Euro equivalent is 716.0 million. Associated with these loans are interest rate swap agreements with a total
combined Euro 601.4 million notional amount that effectively fixes Facility A and B, Giugliano, and a portion of Cinisello at 5.50%.
      (17)    Loans
secured by these five Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (18)    LIBOR + 1.780%,
with LIBOR capped at 4.000%.
      (19)    Redeemable
beginning 3/30/11, pricing re-sets every 5 years based on an index of LIBOR + 2.375%.
      (20)    Loans
secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (21)    Interest
rate spread uses weighted average spread payable on the loan. As of 12/31/09, the spread was 2.189%, with LIBOR capped at 7.50%.
      (22)    LIBOR + 3.000%,
with LIBOR capped at 8.500%.
      (23)    Our
share of indebtedness for joint ventures excludes our share of indebtedness of $145.9 million in joint venture entities in which Gallerie
Commerciali Italia holds a non-controlling interest.
      (24)    Through
an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.50%.
      (25)    The
maturity date shown represents the Anticipated Maturity Date of the loan which is typically 10-20 years earlier than the stated
Maturity Date of the loan. Should the loan not be repaid at the Anticipated Repayment Date the applicable interest rate shall increase as specified in the loan agreement.
      (26)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Yen equivalent 39,382.5 million
      (27)    LIBOR + 0.870%,
with LIBOR capped at 4.000%.
      (28)    Through
an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.00%.
      (29)    LIBOR + 1.950%,
with LIBOR capped at 6.00%.
      (30)    LIBOR + 4.500%,
with LIBOR capped at 8.250%. Through an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.50%.    
  46  

Table of Contents   

(31)    Amounts
shown in USD equivalent. Euro equivalent is 325.5 million. Associated with these loans are interest rate swap agreements with a total
combined Euro 304.4 million notional amount that effectively fixed these loans at a combined 5.44%.
      (32)    Loan
was paid off after 12/31/09.
      (33)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Yen 22,125.0 million.
      (34)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Euro 144.5 million.
      (35)    Loans
secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (36)    LIBOR + 0.560%,
with LIBOR capped at 7.00%.
      (37)    Loans
secured by these three Properties are cross-collateralized.    

  The
changes in consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007 are as follows:   

47  

Table of Contents    

Item 3. Legal Proceedings            

              We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We believe that such litigation, claims
and administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount
can be reasonably estimated.   

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders            

              None.   

  48  

Table of Contents    

Part II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities            

Market Information      

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range for the shares and the
distributions declared per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years are shown below:   

There
is no established public trading market for Simon Property's Class B common stock. Distributions per share of the Class B common stock are identical to the common
stock.   

Holders      

The number of holders of record of common stock outstanding was 2,061 as of December 31, 2009. The Class B common stock
is held entirely by a voting trust to which the Estate of Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their affiliates are parties and is exchangeable on a
one-for-one basis into shares of common stock.   

Dividends      

We are required to pay a minimum level of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends typically exceed our net income
generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of
operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what may be required to maintain our status as a REIT.   

              Dividends
during 2009 aggregated $2.70 per share and were paid part in stock and part in cash, subject to stockholder election. Dividends during 2008 aggregated $3.60 and were paid
entirely in cash. On February 2, 2010, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.60 per share, payable all in cash.   

              We
offer an Automatic Dividend Reinvestment Plan that allows stockholders to acquire additional shares by automatically reinvesting cash dividends. Shares are acquired pursuant to the
plan at a price equal to the prevailing market price of such shares, without payment of any brokerage commission or service charge.   

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities      

During the fourth quarter of 2009, we issued 416,265 shares of common stock to limited partners in exchange for an equal number
of units. The issuance of the shares of common stock was made pursuant to the terms of the Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership and was exempt from registration under the Securities Act
of 1933 as amended, in reliance upon Section 4(2).   

Issuances Under Equity Compensation Plans      

For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this
report.   

  49  

Table of Contents   

Temporary Equity      

During 2009, holders of our Series I preferred stock were not eligible to convert their shares into shares of our common stock
as the triggering price of $75.34 was not met. As of December 31, 2009, the conversion trigger price of $74.18 had been met and each share of Series I preferred stock is convertible into
0.847495 of a share of common stock through March 31, 2010.   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Selected Financial Data section of our 2009 Annual
Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources   Market Risk," filed as Exhibit 13.1
to this Form 10-K.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            

Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements contained in Item 15.   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            

              None.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures            

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with
participation of management, including
our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, our management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009.   

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       Our management's report on internal control
over financial reporting is set forth
in our 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.   

                Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       There was no change in our internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information            

              During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors approved certain
non-audit tax compliance services to be provided by Ernst   Young, LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. This disclosure is made pursuant to
Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

  50  

Table of Contents    

Part III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and the information included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

  51  

Part IV            

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules            

Page No.    

(1)  
     
     Consolidated Financial Statements    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' consolidated financial statements and independent registered public accounting firm's reports are included in our 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as
Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.  

66  

(2)  
      
      Financial Statement Schedule    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Schedule III   Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  

55  

Notes to Schedule III  

62  

(3)  
      
      Exhibits    

The Exhibit Index attached hereto is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item. The following exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

63  

52  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES        

              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
    /s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  

February 25, 2010  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon  
     
   Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
   February 25, 2010  

/s/ HERBERT SIMON 

Herbert Simon  
      
    Chairman Emeritus and Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ RICHARD S. SOKOLOV 

Richard S. Sokolov  
      
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ MELVYN E. BERGSTEIN 

Melvyn E. Bergstein  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ LINDA WALKER BYNOE 

Linda Walker Bynoe  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ REUBEN S. LEIBOWITZ 

Reuben S. Leibowitz  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ J. ALBERT SMITH, JR. 

J. Albert Smith, Jr.  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ KAREN N. HORN 

Karen N. Horn  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

53  

Table of Contents   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ ALLAN HUBBARD 

Allan Hubbard  
     
   Director  
     
   February 25, 2010  

/s/ DANIEL C. SMITH 

Daniel C. Smith  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
      
    February 25, 2010  

/s/ STEVEN K. BROADWATER 

Steven K. Broadwater  
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
      
    February 25, 2010  

54  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

55  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

56  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

57  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

58  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

59  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

60  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2009 
(Dollars in thousands)     

61  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Schedule III as of December 31, 2009     

    (Dollars in thousands)     

   (1)       Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:     

The changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are as follows:   

The
unaudited aggregate cost of real estate assets for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2009 was $20,019,482.   

   (2)       Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:     

The changes in accumulated depreciation and amortization for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are as follows:   

Depreciation
of our investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income is calculated over the estimated original
lives of the assets as follows:   

Buildings and Improvements   typically 10-40 years for the structure, 15 years
for landscaping and parking lot, and 10 years for HVAC equipment.           Tenant Allowances and Improvements   shorter of lease term or useful life.

(3)    Initial
cost generally represents net book value at December 20, 1993, except for acquired properties and new developments after December 20,
1993. Initial cost also includes any new developments that are opened during the current year. Costs of disposals and impairments of property are first reflected as a reduction to cost capitalized
subsequent to acquisition.
      (4)    Not
developed/constructed by us or our predecessors. The date of construction represents the acquisition date.
      (5)    Property
initial cost for these properties is the cost at the date of consolidation for properties previously accounted for under the equity method of
accounting. Accumulated depreciation amounts for properties consolidated which were previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting include the minority interest holders' portion of
accumulated depreciation.
      (6)    Secured
by a $260,000 cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted mortgage loan facility.    
  62  

Exhibits    

2  
     
       Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as February 12, 2007, by and among SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, SPG-FCM Acquisitions, Inc., SPG-FCM
Acquisitions, L.P., The Mills Corporation, and The Mills Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 23, 2007).  

3.1  
     
       Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Registrant's Proxy Statement on
Schedule 14A filed on March 27, 2009).  

3.2  
     
       Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2009).  

3.3  
     
       Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2004).  

3.4  
     
       Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 8 3 / 8 % Series J Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2004).  

9.1  
     
       Second Amended and Restated Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between Melvin Simon  
Associates, Inc., on the one hand and Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon and David Simon on the other hand (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2004).  

9.2  
     
       Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between David Simon, Melvin Simon and Herbert Simon
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.2 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2004).  

10.1  
     
       Eighth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Simon Property Group, L.P. dated as of May 8, 2008 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2008).  

10.2  
     
       $3,500,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2005, among Simon Property Group, L.P., the Institutions named therein as
Lenders and the Institutions named therein as Co-Agents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of Simon Property Group, L.P.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 20, 2005).  

10.3  
     
       Amendment to Credit Agreement among Simon Property Group, L.P., the Institutions named therein as Lenders and the Institutions named therein as
Co-Agents, dated October 4, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant's Form 10-K).  

10.4  
     
       Form of the Indemnity Agreement between the Registrant and its directors and officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the
Registrant's Form S-4 filed August 13, 1998 (Reg. No. 333-61399)).  

10.5  
     
       Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 24, 1998, by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 9, 1998).  

10.6  
     
       Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 27, 1999 by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed March 24, 2004 (Reg. No. 333-113884)).  

10.7  
     
       Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997, by and between O'Connor Retail Partners, L.P. and Simon DeBartolo Group,
Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed December 7, 2001 (Reg. No. 333-74722)).  

10.8*  
     
       Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2008).  

10.9*  
     
       Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant's 2004 Form 10-K).  

10.10*  
     
       Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Registrant's 2006 Form 10-K).  

10.11*  
     
       Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the Registrant's 2004 Form 10-K).  

10.12*  
     
       Employment Agreement among Richard S. Sokolov, the Registrant, and Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P. dated
January 1, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Registrant's 1008 Form 10-K).  

10.13*  
     
       Description of Director and Executive Compensation Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Registrant's 2008
Form 10-K).  

10.14  
     
       Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2007, by and among The Mills Limited Partnership, as Borrower, The Mills
Corporation, as Parent, certain of its subsidiaries, as Guarantors, the lenders party thereto and Simon Property Group, L.P., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed February 23, 2007).  

10.15  
     
       Voting Agreement dated as of June 20, 2004 among the Registrant, Simon Property Group, L.P. and certain holders of shares of common stock
of Chelsea Property Group, Inc. and/or common units of CPG Partners, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 22, 2004).  

63  

Exhibits    

10.16  
     
       Form of Amendment to Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement under 2008 Stock Incentive Program (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 1, 2009).  

10.17*  
     
       Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan dated as of December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2009).  

10.18*  
     
       Amendment   2008 Performance Based-Restricted Stock Agreement dated as of March 6, 2009 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2009).  

10.19  
     
       $3,565,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of December 8, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of Simon Property Group,
L.P.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 11, 2009).  

12.1  
     
       Statement regarding computation of ratios.  

13.1  
     
       Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Financial Statements of the
Registrant as contained in the Registrant's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

21.1  
     
       List of Subsidiaries of the Company.  

23.1  
     
       Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.  

31.1  
     
       Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  
     
       Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32  
     
       Certification by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

101  
     
       The following materials from the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, formatted in XBRL
(Extensible Business Reporting Language): (1) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (2) the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income, (3) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (4) Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text.  

*    Represents
a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.    

64  

Exhibit 12.1            

    SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends 
(in thousands)     

For
purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings" have been computed by adding fixed charges, excluding capitalized interest, to pre-tax income
from consolidated continuing operations including income from noncontrolling interests and our share of pre-tax (loss) income from 50%, or greater than 50%, owned unconsolidated affiliates
which have fixed charges, and including our share of distributed operating income from less than 50% owned unconsolidated affiliates instead of income from the less than 50% owned unconsolidated
affiliates. There are generally no restrictions on our ability to receive distributions from our unconsolidated joint ventures where no preference in favor of the other owners of the joint venture
exists. "Fixed charges" consist of interest costs, whether expensed or capitalized, the interest component of rental expenses, preferred distributions, losses on extinguishment of debt, and
amortization of debt issue costs.   

  65  

Exhibit 13.1     

              The following tables set forth selected financial data. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements and notes thereto and with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Other data we believe is important in understanding trends in our business
is also included in the tables.   

Notes      

(1)      Represents dividends declared per period.
         (2)       FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe provides useful information to investors. Please refer to Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a definition and reconciliation of FFO.      

66  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

              The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto that are included in this Annual Report to
Stockholders.   

   Overview     

              Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a
self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, among other things, a company must distribute
at least 90 percent of its taxable income to its stockholders annually. Taxes are paid by stockholders on dividends received and any capital gains distributed. Most states also follow this
federal treatment and do not require REITs to pay state income tax. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real
estate properties. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   

We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlet  centers, The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2009, we owned or held an interest in 321 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 162 regional malls, 41 Premium Outlet centers, 67
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties acquired in the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition, and 15 other shopping centers or outlet centers in
41 states and Puerto Rico. Of the 36 properties acquired in the Mills portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers.
Internationally, as of December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in 51 European shopping centers (France, Italy and Poland), eight Premium Outlet centers in Japan, one Premium Outlet
center in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet center in South Korea. Also, through joint venture arrangements we have a 24% interest in two shopping centers in Italy currently under development. During
2009, we recognized a loss on the sale of four of our U.S. properties and all of our shopping centers in operation or under development in China. We also agreed to purchase a portfolio of 22 outlet
shopping centers. The purchase is expected to close in the first half of 2010. In early 2010, we and our joint venture partner agreed to sell our interests in seven shopping centers in France and
Poland.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:   

Base minimum rents,     
           Overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and     
           Recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate taxes,
repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
seek growth in earnings, funds from operations, or FFO, and cash flows by enhancing the profitability and operation of our properties and investments. We seek to accomplish this
growth through the following:   

Focusing on leasing to increase revenues and utilizing economies of scale to reduce operating expenses,    
           Expanding and re-tenanting existing franchise locations at competitive market rates,    
           Adding mixed-use elements to properties,     
           Selectively acquiring high quality real estate assets or portfolios of assets, and     
           Selling non-core assets.    

We
also grow by generating supplemental revenue from the following activities:   

Establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media
initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,    
 
  67  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
sale of energy,     
           Selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           Generating interest income on cash deposits and loans made to related entities.    

We
focus on high quality real estate across the retail real estate spectrum. We expand or renovate to enhance existing assets' profitability and market share when we believe the
investment of our capital meets our risk-reward criteria. We selectively develop new properties in metropolitan areas that exhibit strong population and economic growth.   

We
routinely review and evaluate acquisition opportunities based on their ability to complement our portfolio. Our international strategy includes partnering with established real
estate companies and financing international investments with local currency to minimize foreign exchange risk.   

              To
support our growth, we employ a three-fold capital strategy:   

Provide the capital necessary to fund growth,     
           Maintain sufficient flexibility to access capital in many forms, both public and private, and     
           Manage our overall financial structure in a fashion that preserves our investment grade credit ratings.    

Results Overview     

              Diluted earnings per common share decreased $0.82 during 2009, or 43.9%, to $1.05 from $1.87 for 2008. The decrease in
diluted earnings per share was due primarily to losses on asset sales and impairment charges. These included a $140.5 million, or $0.44 per diluted share,
other-than-temporary impairment charge related to our investment in Liberty International, PLC, or Liberty, a U.K. REIT. We recorded the
other-than-temporary charge in the second quarter of 2009 due to the significance and duration of the decline in quoted fair value, including the related currency exchange
component, below the carrying value of the securities. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we also recorded adjustments in the carrying values of three underperforming assets, including one consolidated
operating property and two joint venture assets, the write-off of certain predevelopment costs related to projects that we no longer plan to pursue due to economic conditions, and
adjustments to carrying values for certain parcels of land, amounting to $88.1 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, net of related tax benefit and noncontrolling interest share. We also
recorded net losses related to the sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities of $30.1 million, or $0.09 per diluted share. For 2009, earnings per share were diluted by
approximately $0.21 per share as a result of two equity offerings and the shares we issued in the quarterly dividends. For 2008, we recorded a $20.3 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, loss on
extinguishment of debt related to our redemption of the 7% MandatOry Par Put Remarked Securities, or MOPPRS. In addition, we recorded impairment charges of $21.2 million, or $0.07 per diluted
share, during 2008.   

              In
the United States, our business fundamentals were relatively stable, except for tenant sales psf which were down across the portfolio, and were dependent upon asset type, geographic
location, and mix of specialty and luxury tenants. Average base rents for the regional mall and domestic Premium Outlet portfolios were relatively stable for 2009. The regional malls average base rent
ended the year at $40.04 psf, or an increase of 1.4% over 2008. The domestic Premium Outlets average base rent ended the year at $33.45 psf, or an increase of 21.0%. The stability of the occupancy,
rent psf, and releasing rental spread fundamentals contributed to the growth in our operating results despite the adverse economic conditions affecting our tenants and retail consumers.   

Internationally,
in 2009, we and our joint venture partners opened one additional center and expanded one existing Premium Outlet Center in Japan which added an aggregate 396,300 square
feet of retail space to the international portfolio. Also in December 2009, we recognized a loss on our joint venture interests in our shopping centers in China. We sold our interests to affiliates of
our Chinese partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million.   

  68  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              On
February 4, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l, or Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc., or Ivanhoe Cambridge, entered into a definitive
agreement to sell all of the interests in Simon Ivanhoe which owns seven shopping centers located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners will receive consideration of
 715 million for their interests, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We expect our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe to be
approximately $300 million. The transaction is scheduled to close during the first half of 2010, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals.   

              We
and Ivanhoe Cambridge have the right to participate with Unibail-Rodamco in the potential development of up to five new retail projects in the Simon Ivanhoe pipeline, subject to
customary approval rights. We will own a 25% interest in any of these projects in which we agree to participate.   

Our
effective overall borrowing rate at December 31, 2009 increased 50 basis points to 5.62% as compared to 5.12% at December 31, 2008. This increase was primarily due to
a $1.4 billion increase in our portfolio of relatively higher rate fixed rate debt. Our financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, included:   

decreasing borrowings on the Operating Partnership's $3.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Credit
Facility, to approximately $446.1 million as of December 31, 2009. The ending balance on this facility is entirely comprised of the U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro and
Yen-denominated borrowings. On December 8, 2009, the Operating Partnership entered into a new unsecured revolving corporate credit facility providing an initial borrowing capacity
of $3.565 billion. The new credit facility contains an accordion feature allowing the maximum borrowing capacity to expand to $4.0 billion. The new credit facility matures on
March 31, 2013 Borrowings on the new facility were not drawn until January 5, 2010 when the Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings on the Credit Facility were transitioned to
the new credit facility.     
           issuing $650.0 million in 10.35% senior unsecured notes due 2019. We used the proceeds of the offering to reduce
borrowings on the Credit Facility.     
           issuing $1.1 billion in 6.75% senior unsecured notes due 2014. We used the proceeds of the offering for general
corporate purposes.     
           redeeming five series of maturing unsecured notes totaling $900.0 million which had fixed rates ranging from 3.50%
to 8.63%.     
           borrowing $400.0 million on a loan which matures on August 1, 2016 and bears interest at a fixed rate of
8.00%. This loan is secured by cross-collateralized, cross-defaulted mortgages on Greenwood Park Mall, South Park Mall, and Walt Whitman Mall.    

On
January 12, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of 2.0 years
and a weighted coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior unsecured notes that closed
on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of $400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of 5.65% notes due 2020 and $600.0 million of 6.75%
notes due 2040. We will report a $165.6 million charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

  69  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    United States Portfolio Data     

              The portfolio data discussed in this overview includes the following key operating statistics: occupancy; average base rent per square
foot; and comparable sales per square foot for our four domestic platforms. We include acquired properties in this data beginning in the year of acquisition and remove properties sold in the year
disposed. For comparative purposes, we separate the information in this section on the 16 regional malls we acquired from The Mills Corporation in 2007, or the Mills Regional Malls, from the
information on our other regional malls. We do not include any properties located outside of the United States in this section. The following table sets forth these key operating statistics
for:   

properties that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements,     
           properties we account for under the equity method of accounting as joint ventures, and     
           the foregoing two categories of properties on a total portfolio basis.    

(1)    Percentages
may not recalculate due to rounding. Percentage and basis point changes are representative of the change from the comparable prior period.    

70  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

                 Occupancy Levels and Average Base Rent Per Square Foot.        Occupancy and average base rent are based on
mall and freestanding Gross Leasable Area, or
GLA, owned by us in the regional malls, and all tenants at The Mills, Premium Outlet Centers, and community/lifestyle centers. Our portfolio has maintained relatively stable occupancy and increased
the aggregate average base rents despite continuing economic difficulties.   

                 Comparable Sales Per Square Foot.        Comparable sales include total reported retail tenant sales at owned
GLA (for mall and freestanding stores with
less than 10,000 square feet) in the regional malls and all reporting tenants at The Mills and the Premium Outlet Centers and community/lifestyle centers. Retail sales at owned GLA affect revenue and
profitability levels because sales determine the amount of minimum rent that can be charged, the percentage rent realized, and the recoverable expenses (common area maintenance, real estate taxes,
etc.) that tenants can afford to pay.   

  71  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    International Property Data     

The following are selected key operating statistics for certain of our international properties.   

(1)    Does
not include one center in Mexico (Premium Outlets Punta Norte) and one center in Korea (Yeoju Premium Outlets).    

Critical Accounting Policies     

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or
GAAP, requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue, and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various
transactions had been different, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we
evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current information.
Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.
For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account
for our leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to
pay overage rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed its sales threshold.     
           We review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in cash flows, occupancy and
comparable sales per square foot at the property. We measure any impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its
residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value.
We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ from their carrying values. We also review our investments including investments in
unconsolidated entities if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may not be recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a
decline in the fair value of the investments below carrying value is other-than-temporary.     
           To maintain our status as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income in any given year and meet certain
asset and income tests. We monitor our business and transactions that may potentially impact    
 
  72  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

our
REIT status. In the unlikely event that we fail to maintain our REIT status, and available relief provisions do not apply, then we would be required to pay federal income taxes at regular
corporate income tax rates during the period we did not qualify as a REIT. If we lost our REIT status, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our failure was due to reasonable
cause and certain other conditions were met. As a result, failing to maintain REIT status would result in a significant increase in the income tax expense recorded during those periods.   

We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the
acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings
as-if-vacant, land and market value of in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our
estimates of the values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the
market value of in-place leases, we make our best estimates of the tenants' ability to pay rents based upon the tenants' operating performance at the property, including the competitive
position of the property in its market as well as sales psf, rents psf, and overall occupancy cost for the tenants in place at the acquisition date. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue
that we will recognize over the remaining lease term for the acquired in-place leases.     
           A variety of costs are incurred in the development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a
cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of
judgment. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of
the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction
project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon opening.    

Results of Operations     

              In addition to the activity discussed above in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, property openings, and
other activity significantly affected our consolidated results from continuing operations in the comparative periods:   

During 2009, we sold four consolidated properties described below.    
           During 2009, we recognized a loss on our joint venture interests in our shopping centers in China. We sold our interests to
affiliates of our Chinese partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million.     
           On August 6, 2009, we opened Cincinnati Premium Outlets, a 400,000 square foot outlet center located in Warren
County, Ohio, north of Cincinnati.    
           On April 23, 2009, we opened The Promenade at Camarillo Premium Outlets, a 220,000 square foot expansion located in
Ventura County, north of Los Angeles.     
           On November 13, 2008, we opened Jersey Shore Premium Outlets, a 435,000 square foot outlet center with 120 designer
and name-brand outlet stores located in Tinton Falls, New Jersey.     
           On November 6, 2008, we opened the second phase of Orlando Premium Outlets, a 114,000 square foot expansion that is
100% leased and adds 40 new merchants, located in Orlando, Florida.     
           On May 1, 2008, we opened Pier Park, a 900,000 square foot, open-air retail center located in Panama
City, Florida.     
           On March 27, 2008, we opened Houston Premium Outlets, a 427,000 square foot outlet center located approximately 30
miles west of Houston in Cypress, Texas.    
 
  73  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

On November 15, 2007, we opened Palms Crossing, a 396,000 square foot community center, located adjacent to the new
McAllen Convention Center in McAllen, Texas.     
           On November 8, 2007, we opened Philadelphia Premium Outlets, a 425,000 square foot outlet center located 35 miles
northwest of Philadelphia in Limerick, Pennsylvania.     
           On August 23, 2007, we acquired Las Americas Premium Outlets, a 560,000 square foot upscale outlet center located in
San Diego, California, for $283.5 million, including the assumption of its $180.0 million mortgage.     
           On March 29, 2007, we acquired an additional 25% interest in two regional malls (Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett
Place) in the Mills acquisition and now consolidate those properties.     
           On March 28, 2007, we acquired a 100% interest in The Maine Outlet, a 112,000 square foot outlet center located in
Kittery, Maine for a purchase price of $45.2 million.     
           On March 9, 2007, we opened The Domain, in Austin, Texas, which combines 700,000 square feet of luxury fashion and
restaurant space, 75,000 square feet of Class A office space and 390 apartments.    

In
addition to the activities discussed above and in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, dispositions, and property openings affected our income from unconsolidated entities
in the comparative periods:   

On September 28, 2009, we opened Suzhou In City Plaza, a 750,000 square foot center located in Suzhou, China. We
held a 32.5% ownership interest in this center which was sold as part of the disposition of our interests in China.     
           On September 25, 2009, we opened Zhengzhou In City Plaza, a 465,000 square foot center located in Zhengzhou, China.
We held a 32.5% ownership interest in this center which was sold as part of the disposition of our interests in China.     
           On July 9, 2009, Chelsea Japan Company, Ltd., or Chelsea Japan, the joint venture which operates the Japanese
Premium Outlet Centers in which we have a 40% ownership interest, opened Ami Premium Outlets located in Ami, Japan.     
           On December 30, 2008, Cincinnati Mills, one of the properties we acquired in the Mills acquisition, was sold. We
held a 50% interest the shopping center.     
           On October 16, 2008, Chelsea Japan, opened Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets located in Izumi Park Town, Japan. We hold a
40% ownership interest in Chelsea Japan.     
           On August 25, 2008, Gallerie Commerciali Italia, or GCI, one of our European joint ventures in which we hold a 49%
ownership interest, opened Monza, a 211,600 square foot shopping center in Monza, Italy.     
           On June 5, 2008, we opened Changshu In City Plaza, a 487,000 square foot retail center located in Changshu, China.
We held a 32.5% ownership interest in this center which was sold as part of the disposition of our interests in China.     
           On May 2, 2008, we opened Hamilton Town Center, a 950,000 square foot open-air retail center in
Noblesville, Indiana. We hold a 50% ownership interest in this center.     
           On December 6, 2007, GCI opened Nola, a 876,000 square foot shopping center in Naples, Italy.    
           On October 17, 2007, we acquired an 18.75% interest in Denver West Village in Lakewood, Colorado through our 50%
ownership in SPG-FCM.     
           On September 27, 2007, GCI opened Cinisello, located in Milan, Italy.     
           On July 5, 2007, Simon Ivanhoe sold its interest in five assets located in Poland, for which we recorded our share
of the gain of $90.6 million.     
           On July 5, 2007, Chelsea Japan opened the 195,000 square foot first phase of Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets,
located just north of downtown Kobe, Japan.    
 
  74  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

On June 1, 2007, Chelsea Japan opened Yeoju Premium Outlets, a 250,000 square foot center in Korea.    
           On February 16, 2007, SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, an entity in which a subsidiary of
the Operating Partnership holds a 50% interest, entered into a definitive agreement to acquire The Mills Corporation, or Mills. The Mills acquisition added 36 properties and over
42 million square feet of gross leasable area to our portfolio. The properties are generally located in major metropolitan areas and consist of a combination of traditional anchor tenants,
local and national retailers, and a number of larger "big box" tenants. We made an equity investment of $650.0 million and provided loans to SPG-FCM and Mills in various amounts
throughout 2007 to acquire Mills' remaining common and preferred equity, and to pay various costs of the transaction. We serve as manager of the properties acquired in this transaction, which is more
fully discussed in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section.    

For
the purposes of the following comparisons between the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the above transactions are
referred to as the property transactions. In the following discussions of our results of operations, "comparable" refers to properties open and operating throughout both the current and prior year.   

During
2009, we sold four consolidated properties that had an aggregate book value of $13.7 million for aggregate sales proceeds of $3.9 million, resulting in a net loss
on sale of $9.8 million. The loss on sale of these assets recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and the operating results of the properties that we sold or disposed of during
2009 were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. The following is a list of the consolidated properties we sold and the date of disposition:   

In
2008 we had no consolidated property dispositions.   

              During
2007, we disposed of five consolidated properties that had an aggregate book value of $91.6 million for aggregate sales proceeds of $56.4 million, resulting in a
net loss on sale of approximately $35.3 million. The loss on sale of these assets has been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. The operating
results of the properties that we sold or disposed of during 2007 were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. The following is a list of consolidated property dispositions and the
date of disposition for which we have reported the results of sale within discontinued operations:   

Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2008      

              Minimum rents increased $24.9 million in 2009, of which the property transactions accounted for $27.3 million of the
increase, offset by a decrease in comparable minimum rents of $2.4 million, or 0.1%. The decrease in comparable minimum rents was primarily attributable to a $15.4 million decline in the
fair market value of in-place lease amortization and a $12.6 million decrease in straight-line rents, offset by an increase in minimum rents of $22.8 million and
an increase in comparable rents from carts, kiosks, and other temporary tenants of $2.8 million. Overage rents decreased $15.3 million or 15.3%, as a result of a reduction in tenant
sales for the period as compared to the prior year.   

  75  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              Tenant
reimbursements decreased $3.7 million, due to a $14.8 million, or 1.4%, decrease in the comparable properties as a result of a decrease in expenditures allocable to
tenants paying common area maintenance on a proportionate basis, offset by an $11.1 million increase attributable to the property transactions.   

Management
fees and other revenues decreased $8.4 million principally as a result of decreased earned premiums of our wholly-owned captive insurance entities and lower fee
revenue due to the reduction in development, leasing and joint venture property refinancing activity.   

              Total
other income decreased $5.4 million, and was principally the result of the following:   

a $15.4 million decrease in interest income primarily due to lower reinvestment rates and the lower rate applicable
to our variable rate loan facility with SPG-FCM,     
           a $2.3 million decrease in net other activity, and    

These
decreases were offset in part by a $6.5 million increase in land sale activity primarily related to a land sale in the fourth quarter of 2009 and a $5.8 million increase in lease
settlement income.   

              Property
operating expenses decreased $30.2 million, or 6.6%, primarily related to lower utility costs resulting from our cost control and cost reduction initiatives.   

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $28.1 million due to the impact of prior year openings and expansion activity and acceleration of depreciation for certain
properties scheduled for redevelopment.   

              Repairs
and maintenance decreased $16.1 million due to our cost savings efforts.   

              Home
and regional office expense decreased $34.8 million primarily due to decreased personnel costs attributable to our cost control initiatives and lower incentive compensation
levels.   

              During
2009, we recognized a non-cash charge of $140.5 million representing an other-than-temporary impairment in the fair value below the
carrying value of our minority investment in Liberty. We recorded the charge to earnings due to the significance and duration of the decline in the total share price, including currency revaluations.
In addition, we recorded impairment charges in 2009 of $56.9 million related to one regional mall, certain parcels of land and certain predevelopment costs related to projects no longer being
pursued. In 2008, we recognized an impairment of $16.5 million primarily representing the write-down of a mall property to its estimated net realizable value and the
write-off of predevelopment costs for various development opportunities which we no longer plan to pursue.   

During
2009, we recorded $5.7 million in transaction expenses related to costs associated with significant acquisition related activities. In accordance with the required
adoption of a new accounting pronouncement effective January 1, 2009, all transaction costs are expensed as incurred and are no longer capitalized as a component of acquisition cost as prior
accounting guidance permitted.   

              Interest
expense increased $44.9 million primarily related to the Operating Partnership's issuance of $500 million of senior unsecured notes on August 11, 2009,
$600 million senior unsecured notes on May 15, 2009 and $650 million senior unsecured notes on March 25, 2009, offset by decreased interest expense on our prior Credit
Facility due to the payoff of the U.S. tranche and other property debt refinancings.   

              The
2008 period included a loss on extinguishment of debt of $20.3 million in the second quarter of 2008 related to the redemption of $200 million in remarketable debt
securities. We extinguished the debt because the remarketing reset base rate was above the rate for 30-year U.S. Treasury securities at the date of redemption.   

              Income
tax expense of taxable REIT subsidiaries decreased $8.8 million due to the recognition of a $5.8 million tax benefit in 2009 related to the adjustment of the
carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated non-retail real estate entity.   

              Income
from unconsolidated entities increased $8.0 million as a result of our 2008 joint venture openings and expansion activity, interest rate savings from favorable interest
rates and debt refinancings, and additional depreciation provisions related to the finalization of purchase accounting on asset basis step-ups in the 2008 period associated with   

  76  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

the
acquisition of Mills, offset by the gain recognized in 2008 from our disposition of an investment holding of non-retail real estate adjacent to one of our regional mall operating
properties.   

              In
2009, we recognized a $42.7 million impairment charge representing our share of impairment charges recorded by unconsolidated entities and also impairment charges on our
investment in certain unconsolidated entities for which we deemed the declines in value below our carrying amount other-than-temporary.   

              The
loss on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities of $30.1 million in 2009 was the result of the sale of one regional mall, three community centers, and our
32.5% joint venture interests in our shopping centers operating or under development in China.   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $58.0 million primarily due to a decrease in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

              Preferred
dividends decreased $14.8 million as a result of the conversion of 6.4 million Series I preferred shares into common shares during 2008.   

     Year Ended December 31, 2008 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2007      

              Minimum rents increased $137.2 million in 2008, of which the property transactions accounted for $64.6 million of the
increase. Comparable rents increased $72.6 million, or 3.6%. This was primarily due to an increase in minimum rents of $82.1 million and an $8.5 million increase in
straight-line rents, offset by a $16.4 million decrease in comparable property activity, primarily attributable to lower amounts of fair market value of in-place lease
amortization. Overage rents decreased $9.8 million or 8.9%, as a result of a reduction in tenant sales for the period as compared to the prior year.   

              Tenant
reimbursements increased $42.8 million, due to a $26.9 million increase attributable to the property transactions and a $15.9 million, or 1.6%, increase in
the comparable properties due to our ongoing initiative to convert leases to a fixed reimbursement methodology for common area maintenance costs.   

Management
fees and other revenues increased $18.7 million principally as a result of the full year of additional management fees derived from managing the properties acquired in
the Mills acquisition, and additional leasing and development fees as a result of incremental joint venture property activity.   

              Total
other income decreased $56.6 million principally as a result of the following:   

a $26.7 million decrease in interest income primarily due to the repayment of loans made to SPG-FCM and
Mills, and lower interest rates attributable to this loan facility, combined with decreased interest earnings on investments due to lower excess cash balances and interest rates earned in 2008 as
compared to 2007,     
           an $18.7 million decrease in lease settlement income as a result of significant lease settlements received from two
department stores in 2007, and     
           a $14.3 million decrease in loan financing fees related to Mills-related loan activity during 2007 which did not
recur in 2008.    

These
decreases were offset in part by a $3.1 million increase in net other activity.   

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $63.8 million in 2008 primarily due to our acquisition, expansion and renovation activity and the accelerated depreciation of
tenant improvements for tenant leases terminated during the period and for properties scheduled for redevelopment.   

              Real
estate taxes increased $21.3 million from the prior period, $9.0 million of which is related to the property transactions, and $12.3 million from our
comparable properties due to the effect of increases resulting from reassessments, higher tax rates, and the effect of expansion and renovation activities.   

Repairs
and maintenance decreased $12.3 million due to our cost savings efforts.   

  77  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Provision
for credit losses increased $14.5 million primarily due to an increase in tenant bankruptcies and tenant delinquencies. This was reflected in total square footage lost
to tenant bankruptcies of 1,104,000 during 2008 as compared to only 69,000 square feet in 2007.   

              Home
and regional office expense increased $8.3 million primarily due to increased personnel costs, primarily the result of the Mills acquisition, and the increased expense from
certain incentive compensation plans.   

              Other
expenses increased $6.1 million due to increased consulting and professional fees, including legal fees and related costs.   

In
2008, we recognized impairment charges of $16.5 million primarily representing the write-down of a mall property to its estimated net realizable value and the
write-off of predevelopment costs for various development opportunities that we no longer plan to pursue.   

              Interest
expense increased marginally by $1.3 million despite an $823.9 million increase in consolidated borrowings to fund our development and redevelopment activities,
and the full year impact of our borrowings to fund the Mills-related loans, due to a 55 basis point decline in our weighted average borrowing rates. This decrease in weighted average borrowing rates
was driven primarily by a decline in the applicable LIBOR rate for a majority of our consolidated floating rate debt instruments, including the Credit Facility.   

              We
recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $20.3 million in the second quarter of 2008 related to the redemption of $200 million in remarketable debt securities. We
extinguished the debt because the remarketing reset base rate was above the rate for 30-year U.S. Treasury securities at the date of redemption.   

              Income
tax expense of taxable REIT subsidiaries increased $14.9 million due primarily to a $19.5 million tax benefit recognized in 2007 related to the impairment charge
resulting from of the write-off of our investment in a land joint venture in Phoenix, Arizona.   

              Income
from unconsolidated entities decreased $5.9 million, due primarily to the impact of the Mills acquisition (net of eliminations). On a net basis, our share of loss from
SPG-FCM increased $4.7 million from the prior period due to a full year of SPG-FCM activity in 2008 as compared to only nine months of activity in 2007. The loss was
driven by depreciation and amortization expense on asset basis step-ups in purchase accounting.   

              In
2007, we recognized an impairment charge of $55.1 million related to a land joint venture in Phoenix, Arizona.   

              The
gain on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities of $92.0 million in 2007 was primarily the result of Simon Ivanhoe selling its interest in certain assets
located in Poland.   

              In
2007, the loss on sale of discontinued operations of $35.3 million represents the net loss upon disposition of five non-core properties consisting of three
regional malls and two community/lifestyle centers.   

              Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $12.1 million primarily due to a decrease in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

              Preferred
dividends decreased $14.0 million as a result of the conversion of 6.4 million Series I preferred shares into common shares and the redemption of the
Series G preferred stock in the fourth quarter of 2007.   

  78  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

   Liquidity and Capital Resources     

              Because we generate revenues primarily from long-term leases, our financing strategy relies primarily on
long-term fixed rate debt. We manage our floating rate debt to be at or below 15-25% of total outstanding indebtedness by negotiating interest rates for each financing or
refinancing based on current market conditions. Floating rate debt currently comprises approximately
12% of our total consolidated debt at December 31, 2009. We also enter into interest rate protection agreements as appropriate to assist in managing our interest rate risk. We derive most of
our liquidity from leases that generate positive net cash flow from operations and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities that totaled $1.9 billion during 2009. In addition, the
new credit facility provides an alternative source of liquidity as our cash needs vary from time to time.   

Our
balance of cash and cash equivalents increased $3.2 billion during 2009 to $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2009. December 31, 2009 and 2008 balances
include $38.1 million and $29.8 million, respectively, related to our co-branded gift card programs, which we do not consider available for general working capital purposes.   

              On
December 31, 2009, we had available borrowing capacity of approximately $3.1 billion under the Credit Facility, net of outstanding borrowings of $446.1 million
and letters of credit of $5.7 million. During 2009, the maximum amount outstanding under the Credit Facility was $1.6 billion and the weighted average amount outstanding was
$669.8 million. The weighted average interest rate was 0.94% for the year ended December 31, 2009. On December 8, 2009, the Operating Partnership entered into a new unsecured
revolving corporate credit facility providing an initial borrowing capacity of $3.565 billion. The new credit facility contains an accordion feature allowing the maximum borrowing capacity to
expand to $4.0 billion. The new credit facility matures on March 31, 2013. Borrowings on the new facility were not drawn until January 5, 2010 when the Euro and
Yen-denominated borrowings on the Credit Facility were transitioned to the new credit facility.   

              We
and the Operating Partnership have historically had access to public equity and long term unsecured debt markets and access to private equity from institutional investors at the
property level.   

              Our
business model requires us to regularly access the debt and equity capital markets to raise funds for acquisition and development activity, redevelopment capital, and to refinance
maturing debt. The turmoil in the capital markets that began in 2008 and which now shows signs of abating had an impact on many businesses', including ours, ability to access debt and equity capital.
We raised approximately $3.4 billion in the public capital markets in 2009; however, there is no assurance we will be able to continue to do so in future periods or on similar terms or
conditions. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand and availability under the new credit facility to address our debt maturities and capital needs through 2010.   

As
discussed further in Financing and Debt below, on January 12, 2010, we commenced a tender offer to purchase ten outstanding series of notes. We subsequently purchased
$2.285 billion of notes on January 26, 2010. The purchase of the notes was primarily funded with proceeds from the sale of $2.25 billion of senior unsecured notes issued on
January 25, 2010.   

              On
February 16, 2010, we announced that we had made a written offer in early February to acquire General Growth Properties, Inc. (or General Growth) in a transaction valued at
more than $10 billion, including approximately $9 billion in cash. Of this consideration, approximately $7 billion will be paid to unsecured creditors, representing par value plus
accrued and unpaid dividends and interest. The transaction would not be subject to a financing condition and would be financed through cash on hand, asset sales and through equity co-investments in
acquired properties by strategic institutional investors, with the balance coming from our existing credit facility. We indicated our willingness to discuss consideration consisting in whole or in
part of our common equity in lieu of the cash portion of the consideration to General Growth's stockholders, and perhaps certain of its unsecured creditors, for those who would prefer to receive
equity. The offer is subject to confirmatory due diligence and the
negotiation and execution of a definitive transaction agreement, as well as required bankruptcy court and creditor approvals. As of the filing of this report, no transaction has occurred.   

  79  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Acquisition of The Mills Corporation by SPG-FCM     

On February 16, 2007, SPG-FCM, a 50/50 joint venture between an affiliate of the Operating Partnership and funds
managed by Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C., or Farallon, entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire all of the outstanding common stock of Mills for $25.25 per common share in cash. The
acquisition of Mills and its interests in the 36 properties that remain at December 31, 2009 was completed in April 2007. As of December 31, 2009, we and Farallon had each funded
$650.0 million into SPG-FCM to acquire all of the common stock of Mills. As part of the transaction, the Operating Partnership also made loans to SPG-FCM and Mills
primarily at rates of LIBOR plus 270-275 basis points. These funds were used by SPG-FCM and Mills to repay loans and other obligations of Mills, including the redemption of
preferred stock, during 2007. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of our loan to SPG-FCM was $632.0 million, and the average outstanding balance during the
twelve month period ended December 31, 2009 of all loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills was approximately $589.5 million. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded approximately
$9.3 million, $15.3 million and $39.1 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to these loans, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including
fee income amortization related to up-front fees on loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills, during 2009, 2008 and 2007 of approximately $3.7 million, $3.1 million and
$17.4 million (net of inter-entity eliminations), respectively, for providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM. The existing loan facility to
SPG-FCM bears a rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and matures on June 7, 2010, with two available one-year extensions. Fees charged on loans made to
SPG-FCM and Mills are amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the loan.   

The
Mills acquisition involved the purchase of all Mills' outstanding shares of common stock and common units for approximately $1.7 billion (at $25.25 per share or unit), the
assumption of $954.9 million of preferred stock, the assumption of a proportionate share of property-level mortgage debt, of which SPG-FCM's share approximated $3.8 billion,
the assumption of $1.2 billion in unsecured loans provided by us, costs to effect the acquisition, and certain liabilities and contingencies, including an ongoing investigation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $8 billion. SPG-FCM has completed its purchase price allocations for the Mills acquisition using
valuations developed with the assistance of a third-party professional appraisal firm.   

In
conjunction with the Mills acquisition, we acquired a majority interest in two properties in which we previously held a 50% ownership interest (Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett
Place) and as a result we have consolidated these two properties at the date of acquisition.   

              In
addition to the loans provided to SPG-FCM, we also provide management services to substantially all of the properties in which SPG-FCM holds an interest.   

Cash Flows     

Our net cash flow from operating activities and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities totaled $1.9 billion
during 2009. In addition, we received net proceeds from our debt financing and repayment activities in 2009 of $542.1 million. These activities are further discussed below in "Financing and
Debt". Also during 2009, we:   

sold 40,250,000 shares of common stock resulting in total proceeds of $1.6 billion,    
           paid stock dividends and unitholder distributions of $147.8 million in cash and $754.2 million in common
stock and units,     
           paid preferred stock dividends and preferred unit distributions totaling $38.2 million,     
           redeemed our 7.75%/8% cumulative redeemable preferred units for $85.1 million,     
           funded consolidated capital expenditures of $376.3 million (includes development and other costs of
$160.4 million, renovation and expansion costs of $159.0 million, and tenant costs and other operational capital expenditures of $56.9 million) and     
           funded investments in unconsolidated entities of $107.2 million.    

In
general, we anticipate that cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating expenses, monthly debt service, recurring capital expenditures, and distributions to
stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT   

  80  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

  qualification
on a long-term basis. In addition, we expect to be able to obtain capital for nonrecurring capital expenditures, such as acquisitions, major building renovations and
expansions, as well as for scheduled principal maturities on outstanding indebtedness, from:   

excess cash generated from operating performance and working capital reserves,     
           borrowings on our new credit facility,     
           additional secured or unsecured debt financing, or     
           additional equity raised in the public or private markets.    

We
expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2010, and we consider these projected cash flows in our sources and uses of cash. These cash flows are principally derived
from retail tenants, many of whom continue to experience considerable financial distress. A significant deterioration in projected cash flows from operations could cause us to increase our reliance on
available funds from the new credit facility, curtail planned capital expenditures, or seek other additional sources of financing as discussed above.   

Financing and Debt     

     Unsecured Debt      

Our unsecured debt at December 31, 2009 consisted of approximately $11.6 billion of senior unsecured notes of the
Operating Partnership and $446.1 million outstanding under our prior Credit Facility. The total outstanding balance of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2009 was comprised of the
U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings which expired on January 11, 2010. The balance as of December 31, 2009 reflects interest at LIBOR plus 37.5
basis points and an additional facility fee of 12.5 basis points as these borrowings were made under our prior Credit Facility. On December 8, 2009, the Operating Partnership entered into a new
unsecured revolving corporate credit facility providing an initial borrowing capacity of $3.565 billion. The new credit facility contains an accordion feature allowing the maximum borrowing
capacity to expand to $4.0 billion. The new credit facility matures on March 31, 2013. The base interest on the new credit facility is LIBOR plus 210 basis points and includes a facility
fee of 40 basis points. Borrowings on the new facility were not drawn until January 5, 2010 when the Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings on the Credit Facility were transitioned to
the new credit facility.   

              During
the year ended December 31, 2009, we drew amounts from the prior Credit Facility to fund the redemption of $600.0 million of maturing senior unsecured notes. We
repaid a total of $1.2 billion on our Credit Facility during the year ended December 31, 2009. The maximum outstanding balance during the year ended December 31, 2009 was
approximately $1.6 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average outstanding balance of the prior Credit Facility was approximately $669.8 million.   

              On
March 25, 2009 the Operating Partnership issued $650.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 10.35%. The proceeds from the offering were used to
reduce borrowings on the prior Credit Facility and for general business purposes.   

              On
May 15, 2009, the Operating Partnership issued $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 6.75%. The proceeds from the offering were used for
general business purposes. The notes were re-opened on August 11, 2009, and an additional $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes were issued. We used the proceeds from the
offering for general business purposes.   

              On
January 12, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of 2.0 years
and a weighted coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior unsecured notes that closed
on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of $400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of 5.65% notes due 2020 and $600.0 million of 6.75%
notes due 2040. We will report a $165.6 million charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

  81  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Secured Debt     

Total secured indebtedness was $6.6 billion and $6.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

              On
July 30, 2009, we borrowed $400.0 million on a mortgage that is secured by Greenwood Park Mall, Southpark Mall, and Walt Whitman Mall, which matures on August 1,
2016 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 8.00%. This is a cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted loan as it pertains to these properties.   

Summary of Financing     

Our consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect outstanding derivative instruments, and the effective weighted average interest rates as of
December 31, 2009, and 2008, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):   

As of December 31, 2009, we had $694.2 million of notional amount fixed rate swap agreements that have a weighted average fixed pay rate of 2.79%
and a weighted average variable receive rate of 0.60%. As of December 31, 2009, the net effect of these agreements effectively converted $694.2 million of variable rate debt to fixed
rate debt.   

                Contractual Obligations and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements:        The following table summarizes the material
aspects of our future obligations
as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands):   

(1)    Represents
principal maturities only and therefore, excludes net premiums and discounts of $9,734 and all required interest payments. We incurred interest
expense during 2009 of $992.1 million, net of capitalized interest of $14.5 million.
      (2)    Represents
our pro rata share of principal maturities and excludes net premiums and discounts.
      (3)    Represents
our pro rata share of capital expenditure commitments.
      (4)    Represents
only the minimum non-cancellable lease period, excluding applicable lease extension and renewal options.    

82  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Our
off-balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of our investments in real estate joint ventures which are common in the real estate industry and are described in
Note 7 of the notes to the accompanying financial statements. Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture, is typically secured by the joint venture property, and is
non-recourse to us. As of December 31, 2009, the Operating Partnership had loan guarantee obligations to support $47.2 million to support our total $6.5 billion share
of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness presented in the table above.   

Preferred Stock Activity     

During 2009, we issued a total of 500,891 shares of Series I 6% Preferred Stock upon conversion of an equal number of
Series I preferred units.   

Acquisitions and Dispositions     

Buy-sell provisions are common in real estate partnership agreements. Most of our partners are institutional investors who
have a history of direct investment in retail real estate. Our partners in our joint venture properties may initiate these provisions at any time. If we determine it is in our stockholders' best
interests for us to purchase the joint venture interest and we believe we have adequate liquidity to execute the purchase without hindering our cash flows, then we may initiate these provisions or
elect to buy. If we decide to sell any of our joint venture interests, we expect to use the net proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness or to reinvest in development, redevelopment, or expansion
opportunities.   

                 Acquisitions.        Although the acquisition of high quality individual properties or portfolios of properties
remains an integral component of our growth
strategies, we did not acquire any properties during 2009.   

We
entered into a definitive agreement in December 2009 to acquire all of the outlet shopping centers currently owned by Prime Outlets Acquisition Company and certain of its affiliated
entities, or the Prime Outlets, subject to Prime Outlets' existing fixed rate indebtedness and preferred stock. The Prime Outlets consist of 22 high quality outlet centers located in major
metropolitan markets. We will pay consideration (consisting of cash and units of the Operating Partnership) of approximately $0.7 billion for the owners' interests in the Prime Outlets. The
acquisition is subject to several closing conditions relating to certain financing arrangements of the Prime Outlets. Assuming all closing conditions are satisfied on a timely basis, we expect the
transaction will close in the second quarter of 2010.   

Dispositions.        We continue to pursue the sale of properties that no longer meet our strategic criteria or
that are not the primary retail venue within
their trade area. In 2009, we sold the following wholly-owned properties: Raleigh Springs, a regional mall located in Memphis, Tennessee; Eastland Plaza, a community center located in Tulsa, Oklahoma;
Knoxville Commons, a community center located in Knoxville, Tennessee; and Park Plaza, a community center located in Hopkinsville, Kentucky. We received net proceeds of $3.9 million on the U.S.
property dispositions and recorded a net loss on these dispositions of $9.8 million. Also in December 2009, we recognized a loss on our joint venture interests in our shopping centers operating
and under development in China. We sold our interests to affiliates of our Chinese partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million. The loss on
sales of these wholly owned entities and our joint venture interests in China is included in "(Loss) gain on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities" in the 2009 consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

              On
February 4, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge, entered into a definitive agreement to sell all of the interests in Simon Ivanhoe which owns seven
shopping centers located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners will receive consideration of  715 million for the assets, subject to certain
post-closing adjustments. We expect our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe to be approximately $300 million. The transaction is scheduled to close during
the first half of 2010, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals.   

              We
do not believe the sale of these properties and joint venture interests will have a material impact on our future results of operations or cash flows. We believe the disposition of
these assets will enhance the average overall quality of our portfolio.   

  83  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Development Activity     

New Domestic Developments.        Given the significant downturn in the economy, we have substantially reduced
our development spending. On August 6,
2009, we opened Cincinnati Premium Outlets, a 400,000 square foot upscale manufacturers' outlet center located in Monroe, OH. The total cost to complete this project was approximately
$93.0 million, which was funded with available cash from operations. Also included in development projects is a 600,000 square foot Phase II expansion at The Domain, which is expected to
open in the first half of 2010. Other than these projects, our share of other 2009 new developments was not significant.   

Strategic Domestic Expansions and Renovations.        In addition to new development, we incur costs related to
construction for significant renovation and
expansion projects at our properties. On April 23, 2009, we opened The Promenade at Camarillo Premium Outlets, a 220,000 square foot expansion of an existing center. The total cost to complete
this project was approximately $73.0 million and was funded with available cash from operations. Included in our renovation and expansion projects is the addition of Nordstrom at South Shore
Plaza, which is expected to open in the first half of 2010. We expect to fund this capital project with cash flow from operations. Our share of the cost of renovation or expansion projects that we
expect to initiate or complete in 2010 is approximately $40.0 million.   

Capital Expenditures on Consolidated Properties.      

The following table summarizes total capital expenditures on consolidated properties on a cash basis:   

International Development Activity.        We typically reinvest net cash flow from our international
investments to fund future international development
activity. We believe this strategy mitigates some of the risk of our initial investment and our exposure to changes in foreign currencies. We have also funded our European investments with
Euro-denominated borrowings that act as a natural hedge against local currency fluctuations. This has also been the case with our Premium Outlet Centers in Japan and Mexico where we use
Yen and Peso denominated financing, respectively. Currently, our consolidated net income exposure to changes in the volatility of the Euro, Yen, Peso and other foreign currencies is not material. We
expect our share of international development costs for 2010 will be approximately $65.0 million.   

              The
carrying amount of our total combined investment in Simon Ivanhoe and GCI, as of December 31, 2009, including all related components of other comprehensive income, was
$298.8 million. On December 14, 2009, we made an additional capital contribution to GCI of $79.4 million which was used to fund certain liabilities of the joint venture. The
contribution increased our investment in GCI but did not impact our ownership percentage of the venture. Our investments in Simon Ivanhoe and GCI are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting. Currently, two European developments are under construction which will add approximately 942,000 square feet of GLA for a total net cost of approximately
 221 million, of which our share is approximately  53 million, or $76.0 million based on current Euro:USD exchange rates. Although we agreed to
sell our joint venture interest in Simon Ivanhoe in 2010, we and Ivanhoe Cambridge have the right to participate with Unibail-Rodamco in the potential development of up to five new retail projects in
the Simon Ivanhoe pipeline, subject to customary approval rights. We will own a 25% interest in any of these projects in which we agree to participate.   

              As
of December 31, 2009, the carrying amount of our 40% joint venture investment in the eight Japanese Premium Outlet Centers including all related components of other
comprehensive income was $302.2 million. In 2009, we completed construction and opened Ami Premium Outlets, a 224,500 square foot center located outside Tokyo, Japan. The project's total
projected net cost is JPY 15.4 billion, of which our share is approximately JPY 6.2 billion, or $66.8 million based on applicable Yen:USD exchange rates. We also completed
construction and opened a 171,800   

  84  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

square
foot expansion at Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets in Hyougo-ken, Japan. The project's total projected net cost is JPY 7.6 billion, of which our share is approximately
JPY 3.0 billion, or $33.0 million based on applicable Yen:USD exchange rates. Currently, Toki Premium Outlets Phase III and Tosu Premium Outlets Phase III are under
construction in Japan. Toki Premium Outlets Phase III is a 62,000 square foot expansion to the Toki Premium Outlet Center located in Toki, Japan. The project's total projected net cost is JPY
2.2 billion, of which our share is approximately JPY 864 million, or $9.4 million based on applicable Yen:USD exchange rates. Tosu Premium Outlets Phase III is a 52,000
square foot expansion to the Tosu Premium Outlet Center located in Fukuoka, Japan. The project's total projected net cost is JPY 3.2 billion, of which our share is approximately JPY
1.3 billion, or $13.7 million based on applicable Yen:USD exchange rates.   

              We
hold a minority interest in Liberty which is a U.K. Real Estate Investment Trust that operates regional shopping centers and owns other prime retail assets throughout the U.K.
Liberty is a U.K. FTSE 100 listed company, with shareholders' funds of  3.2 billion and property investments of  6.1 billion, of which its U.K. regional
shopping centers comprise 70%. Assets of the group under control or joint control amount to  9.3 billion. Our interest in Liberty is less than 6% of its outstanding shares. We
adjust the carrying value of this investment quarterly using quoted market prices, including a related foreign exchange component.   

    Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program     

              Dividends during 2009 aggregated $2.70 per share and were paid in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, subject to
stockholder election. Dividends during 2008 aggregated $3.60 per share and were paid entirely in cash. We must pay a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends
typically exceed our consolidated net income generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends and future distributions of
the Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what may be required
to maintain our status as a REIT.   

              Our
Board had authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of common stock through July 2009. No purchases were made as part of this program in 2009. The program was not
renewed and has now expired.   

    Forward-Looking Statements     

              Certain statements made in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance
that our expectations will be attained, and it is possible that our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks,
uncertainties and other factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to: the impact of a prolonged recession, our ability to meet debt service requirements, the availability and terms of
financing, changes in our credit rating, changes in market rates of interest and foreign exchange rates for foreign currencies, the ability to hedge interest rate risk, risks associated with the
acquisition, development and expansion of properties, general risks related to retail real estate, the liquidity of real estate investments, environmental liabilities, changes in market rental rates,
trends in the retail industry, relationships with anchor tenants, the inability to collect rent due to the bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, risks relating to joint venture properties,
competitive market forces, risks related to international activities, insurance costs and coverage, terrorist activities, and maintenance of our status as a real
estate investment trust. We discuss these and other risks and uncertainties under the heading "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may update that
discussion in subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, but otherwise we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result
of new information, future developments, or otherwise.   

  85  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Non-GAAP Financial Measure   Funds from Operations     

              Industry practice is to evaluate real estate properties in part based on funds from operations, or FFO. We consider FFO to be a key
measure of our operating performance that is not specifically defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. We believe that FFO is helpful to investors because it
is a widely recognized measure of the performance of REITs and provides a relevant basis
for comparison among REITs. We also use this measure internally to measure the operating performance of our portfolio.   

              We
determine FFO based on the definition set forth by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, as consolidated net income computed in accordance with
GAAP:   

excluding real estate related depreciation and amortization,           excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items and cumulative
effects of accounting changes,          excluding gains and losses from the sales of previously depreciated operating properties,           plus the allocable portion of FFO of unconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting based upon
economic ownership interest, and           all determined on a consistent basis in accordance with GAAP.    

We
have adopted NAREIT's clarification of the definition of FFO that requires us to include the effects of nonrecurring items not classified as extraordinary, cumulative effect of
accounting changes, or a gain or loss resulting from the sale of previously depreciated operating properties. We include in FFO gains and losses realized from the sale of land, outlot buildings,
marketable and non-marketable securities, and investment holdings of non-retail real estate. However, you should understand that our computation of FFO might not be comparable
to FFO reported by other REITs and that FFO:   

does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP,           should not be considered as an alternative to consolidated net
income determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of
operating performance, and           is not an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.    
 
  86  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              The
following schedule sets forth total FFO before allocation to the limited partners of the Operating Partnership and FFO allocable to us. This schedule also reconciles FFO to
consolidated net income, which we believe is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the periods presented.   

87  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

Management's Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting            

We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures
that:   

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
disposition of assets;     
           Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and    
           Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

We
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.   

              Based
on that assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   

Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Their report appears on page 89
of this Annual Report.   

  88  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.   

              We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

              Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

In
our opinion, Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009,
based on the COSO criteria.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc.
and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2009 of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

89  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

90  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Balance Sheets   (Dollars in thousands, except share amounts)            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  91  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income   (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  92  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (Dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  93  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity 
(Dollars in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  94  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    1.    Organization     

Simon Property Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under
the Internal Revenue Code. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties. In these notes to
consolidated financial statements, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and their subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlet  centers, The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2009, we owned or held an interest in 321 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 162 regional malls, 41 Premium Outlet
centers, 67 community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties acquired in the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition, and 15 other shopping centers or outlet
centers in 41 states and Puerto Rico. Of the 36 properties acquired in the Mills portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community
centers. We also own an interest in one parcel of land held in the United States for future development. Internationally, as of December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in
51 European shopping centers (France, Italy and Poland), eight Premium Outlet centers in Japan, one Premium Outlet center in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet center in South Korea. Also,
through joint venture arrangements we have a 24% interest in two shopping centers in Italy currently under development.   

We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:   

Base minimum rents,     
           Overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and     
           Recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate tax,
repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
also generate supplemental revenue from the following activities:   

Establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances including payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media
initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,     
           Offering property operating services for major capital expenditures such as roofing, parking lots and energy systems,    
           Selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           Generating interest income on cash deposits and loans made to related entities.    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation     

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all majority-owned subsidiaries, and all significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.

We
consolidate properties that are wholly owned or properties that we own less than 100% but we control. Control of a property is demonstrated by, among other factors, our ability
to:   

manage day-to-day operations,     
           refinance debt and sell the property without the consent of any other partner or owner, and     
           the inability of any other partner or owner to replace us.    

We
also consolidate a variable interest entity, or VIE, when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Our determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE considers all
relationships between us and the VIE, including management agreements and other contractual arrangements, when determining the party obligated to absorb the   

  95  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation (Continued)    

majority
of the expected losses, as defined, by accounting standards. There have been no changes during 2009 in conclusions about whether an entity qualifies as a VIE or whether we are the primary
beneficiary of any previously identified VIE. During 2009, we did not provide financial or other support to a previously identified VIE that we were not previously contractually obligated to provide.   

              Investments
in partnerships and joint ventures represent our noncontrolling ownership interests in properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. We
initially record these investments at cost and we subsequently adjust for net equity in income or loss, which we allocate in accordance with the provisions of the applicable partnership or joint
venture agreement, and cash contributions and distributions. The allocation provisions in the partnership or joint venture agreements are not always consistent with the legal ownership interests held
by each general or limited partner or joint venture investee primarily due to partner preferences. We separately report investments in joint ventures for which accumulated distributions have exceeded
investments in and our share of net income of the joint ventures within "Cash distributions and losses in partnerships and joint ventures, at equity" in the consolidated balance sheets. The net equity
of certain joint ventures is less than zero because of financing or operating distributions that are usually greater than net income, as net income includes non-cash charges for
depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2009, we consolidated 200 wholly-owned properties and 18 additional properties that are less than wholly-owned, but which we control or for which we are the
primary beneficiary. We account for the remaining 164 properties using the equity method of accounting (joint venture properties). We manage the day-to-day operations of
93 of the 164 joint venture properties but have determined that our partner or partners have substantive participating rights in regards to the assets and operations of these joint venture properties.
Our investments in joint ventures in Europe, Japan, Mexico and Korea comprise 61 of the remaining 71 properties. The international properties are managed by joint ventures in which we share
oversight responsibility with our partner. Additionally, we account for our investment in SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, which acquired The Mills Corporation and its
majority-owned subsidiary, The Mills Limited Partnership, or collectively Mills, in April 2007, using the equity method of accounting. We have determined that SPG-FCM is not a VIE
and that Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C., or Farallon, our joint venture partner, has substantive participating rights with respect to the assets and operations of SPG-FCM
pursuant to the applicable partnership agreements.   

              We
allocate net operating results of the Operating Partnership after preferred distributions to third parties and to us based on the partners' respective weighted average ownership
interests in the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of the Operating Partnership attributable to third parties are reflected in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.   

Our
weighted average ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was 83.2% and 80.4%, respectively. We adjust the limited partners' interest in the Operating
Partnership at the end of each period to reflect their interest in the Operating Partnership.   

Reclassifications      

We made certain reclassifications of prior period amounts in the consolidated financial statements to conform to the 2009 presentation.
These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net income available to common stockholders or earnings per share.   

Subsequent Events      

We have evaluated the financial statements for subsequent events through the time of the filing of this Form 10-K.   

  96  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

Investment Properties      

We record investment properties at cost. Investment properties include costs of acquisitions; development, predevelopment, and
construction (including allocable salaries and related benefits); tenant allowances and improvements; and interest and real estate taxes incurred during construction. We capitalize improvements and
replacements from repair and maintenance when the repair and maintenance extends the useful life, increases capacity, or improves the efficiency of the asset. All other repair and maintenance items
are expensed as incurred. We capitalize interest on projects during periods of construction until the projects are ready for their intended purpose based on interest rates in place during the
construction period. The amount of interest capitalized during each year is as follows:   

We
record depreciation on buildings and improvements utilizing the straight-line method over an estimated original useful life, which is generally 10 to 40 years. We
review depreciable lives of investment properties periodically and we make adjustments when necessary to reflect a shorter economic life. We amortize tenant allowances, tenant inducements and tenant
improvements utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter. We record depreciation on equipment and fixtures utilizing
the straight-line method over seven to ten years.   

              We
review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in cash flows, occupancy and comparable sales per square foot at the property. We measure
any impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To
the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We estimate fair value using unobservable market data such as
operating income, estimated capitalization rates, or multiples, leasing prospects and local market information. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these
properties may differ from their
carrying values. We also review our investments including investments in unconsolidated entities if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may not be
recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the investments is other-than-temporary.   

              Certain
of our real estate assets contain asbestos. The asbestos is appropriately contained, in accordance with current environmental regulations, and we have no current plans to remove
the asbestos. If these properties were demolished, certain environmental regulations are in place which specify the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and disposed. Because the obligation to
remove the asbestos has an indeterminable settlement date, we are not able to reasonably estimate the fair value of this obligation.   

Purchase Accounting Allocation      

We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component
which may be derived from various observable or unobservable inputs and assumptions. Also, we may utilize third party valuation specialists. These components typically include buildings, land and
intangibles related to in-place leases and we estimate:   

the fair value of land and related improvements and buildings on an as-if-vacant basis.    
 
  97  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

the market value of in-place leases based upon our best estimate of current market rents and amortize the
resulting market rent adjustment into revenues.     
           the value of costs to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances and improvements and leasing commissions.    
           the value of revenue and recovery of costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the space was
vacant.    

Amounts
allocated to building are depreciated over the estimated remaining life of the acquired building or related improvements. We amortize amounts allocated to tenant improvements,
in-place lease assets and other lease-related intangibles over the remaining life of the underlying leases. We also estimate the value of other acquired intangible assets, if any, which
are amortized over the remaining life of the underlying related leases or intangibles.   

Discontinued Operations      

We reclassify any material operations and gains or losses on disposal related to consolidated properties sold during the period to
discontinued operations. During 2007, we reported the net loss upon sale on five consolidated assets sold in "Loss on sale of discontinued operations" in the consolidated statements of operations and
comprehensive income. The operating results of the assets disposed of in 2007 were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. There were no consolidated assets sold during 2008. During
2009, we reported the net loss of approximately $9.8 million upon the sale of four consolidated assets in "(Loss) gain on sales of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities" in the
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The loss on these assets and the operating results were not significant to our consolidated results of operations.   

Cash and Cash Equivalents      

We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash and cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash equivalents generally consist of commercial paper, bankers acceptances, Eurodollars, repurchase agreements, and
money markets. Our gift card programs are administered by banks. We collect gift card funds at the point of sale and then remit those funds to the banks for further processing. As a result, cash and
cash equivalents, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, includes a balance of $38.1 million and $29.8 million, respectively, related to these gift card programs which we do not
consider available for general working capital purposes. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk include our cash and cash equivalents and our trade accounts
receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with institutions with high credit quality. However, at certain times, such cash and cash equivalents may be in excess of FDIC and SIPC insurance
limits. See Notes 4, 8, and 10 for disclosures about non-cash investing and financing transactions.   

Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities      

Marketable securities consist primarily of the investments of our captive insurance subsidiaries, our investment in shares of stock of
Liberty International PLC, or Liberty, our deferred compensation plan investments, and certain investments held to fund the debt service requirements of debt previously secured by investment
properties that have been sold.   

              The
types of securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries typically include U.S. Treasury or other U.S. government securities as
well as corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from less than 1 to 10 years. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are valued based upon
quoted market prices or other observable inputs when quoted market prices are not available. The amortized cost of debt securities, which approximates fair value, held by our captive insurance
subsidiaries is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Our investment in Liberty is also accounted for as an available-for-sale security.
Liberty operates regional shopping centers and is the owner of other retail assets   

  98  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

throughout
the United Kingdom, as well as certain real estate assets in the U.S. Our interest in Liberty is adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component.
Changes in the values of these securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the gain or loss is realized or until any unrealized loss is deemed to be
other-than-temporary. We review any declines in value of these securities for other-than-temporary impairment and consider the severity and duration of
any decline in value. To the extent an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis is established.
Subsequent changes are then recognized through other comprehensive income unless another other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred.   

              During
2009, we recognized a non-cash charge of $140.5 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, representing an other-than-temporary impairment in
fair value below the carrying value of our investment in Liberty. At June 30 and December 31, 2009, we owned 35.4 million shares at a weighted average original cost per share of
 5.74. As of June 30 and December 31, 2009, Liberty's quoted market price was  3.97 and  5.15 per share, respectively. As a result of the significance
and duration of the decline in the total share price at June 30, 2009, including currency revaluations, we deemed the decline in value as other-than-temporary impairment
establishing a new cost basis of our investment in Liberty. As a result, changes in available-for-sale securities and other in the 2009 consolidated statement of operations and
comprehensive income include the reclassification of $140.5 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings related to this non-cash charge. Prior to the quarter
ending June 30, 2009, the changes in value of our Liberty investment were reflected in other comprehensive income. Effective July 1, 2009, we resumed marking to market our Liberty
investment through other comprehensive income. The resulting mark-to-market adjustment at December 31, 2009 was an increase in the carrying value of Liberty of
$58.2 million with a corresponding adjustment in other comprehensive income.   

              Our
insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain statutory minimum capital and surplus as well as maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. Therefore, our access to these securities may be
limited. Our deferred compensation plan
investments are classified as trading securities and are valued based upon quoted market prices. The investments have a matching liability recorded as the amounts are fully payable to the employees
that earned the compensation. Changes in the values of these securities and changes to the matching liability to employees are both recognized in earnings and as a result the impact to consolidated
net income is zero. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we have investments of $51.7 million and $53.4 million, respectively, which must be used to fund the debt service
requirements of debt related to investment properties sold. These investments are classified as held-to-maturity and are recorded at amortized cost as we have the ability and
intent to hold these investments to maturity.   

              During
2008, we made an investment of $70 million in a non-marketable security that we account for under the cost method. To the extent an
other-than-temporary decline in fair value is deemed to have occurred, we would adjust this investment to its estimated fair value.   

Net
unrealized gains as of December 31, 2009 were approximately $59.4 million and represented the valuation and related currency adjustments for our marketable securities.
As of December 31, 2009, other than the adjustment related to our investment in Liberty recorded during the second quarter, we do not consider any decline in value of any of our other
marketable and non-marketable securities to be an other-than-temporary impairment, as these market value declines, if any, are not significant, have existed for a
short period of time, and, in the case of debt securities, we have the ability and intent to hold these securities to maturity.   

Fair Value Measurements      

We hold marketable securities that total $464.1 million at December 31, 2009, and are considered to have Level 1
fair value inputs. In addition, we have derivative instruments which are classified as having Level 2 inputs which consist primarily of interest rate swap agreements with a gross liability
balance of $13.0 million and a gross asset balance of $0.3 million and interest rate cap agreements with a minimal asset value. Level 1 fair value inputs are quoted prices for
identical items in active, liquid and visible markets such as stock exchanges. Level 2 fair value inputs   

  99  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

are
observable information for similar items in active or inactive markets, and appropriately consider counterparty creditworthiness in the valuations. Level 3 fair value inputs reflect our
best estimate of inputs and assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. The inputs are unobservable in the market and significant to the
valuation estimate. Certain wholly owned assets and equity method investments in real estate were determined to be impaired in 2009. We used Level 3 inputs in estimating the fair value of these
assets to measure our impairment. Note 8 includes discussion of the fair value of debt.   

Use of Estimates      

We prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, or GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements, and revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our actual results could differ from these estimates.   

Segment Disclosure      

Our primary business is the ownership, development, and management of retail real estate. We have aggregated our retail operations,
including regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, The Mills, and community/lifestyle centers, into one reportable segment because they have similar economic characteristics and we provide similar
products and services to similar types of tenants. Further, all material operations are within the United States and no customer or tenant comprises more than 10% of consolidated revenues.   

Deferred Costs and Other Assets      

Deferred costs and other assets include the following as of December 31:   

Deferred Financing and Lease Costs.        Our deferred costs consist primarily of financing fees we incurred
in order to obtain long-term
financing and internal and external leasing commissions and related costs. We record amortization of deferred financing costs on a straight-line basis over the terms of the respective
loans or agreements. Our deferred leasing costs consist primarily of capitalized salaries and related benefits in connection with lease originations. We record amortization of deferred leasing costs
on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Details of these deferred costs as of December 31 are as follows:   

100  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

We
report amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of premiums, and accretion of discounts as part of interest expense. Amortization of deferred leasing costs is a
component of depreciation and amortization expense. We amortize debt premiums and discounts, which are included in mortgages and other indebtedness, over the remaining terms of the related debt
instruments. These debt premiums or discounts arise either at the debt issuance or as part of the purchase price allocation of the fair value of debt assumed in acquisitions. The accompanying
statements of operations and comprehensive income include amortization as follows:   

Intangible Assets      

The average life of in-place lease intangibles is approximately 5.5 years and is amortized over the remaining life
of the leases of the related property on the straight-line basis and is included with depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.
The fair market value of above and below market leases is amortized into revenue over the remaining lease life as a component of reported minimum rents. The weighted average remaining life of these
intangibles is approximately 1.2 years. The unamortized amount of below market leases is included in "Accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and deferred revenues" in the consolidated
balance sheets and was $60.9 million and $94.3 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The amount of amortization of above and below market leases, net for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 was $20.0 million, $35.4 million, and $44.6 million, respectively. If a lease is terminated prior to the original lease
termination, any remaining unamortized intangible is charged to earnings.   

              Details
of intangible assets as of December 31 are as follows:   

101  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Estimated
future amortization, and the increasing (decreasing) effect on minimum rents for our above and below market leases as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

On January 1, 2009, we adopted newly issued accounting guidance on disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging
activities which amends and expands previous disclosure requirements. The guidance requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives and quantitative disclosures
about the fair value of and gains and losses on derivative instruments. We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives
depends on the intended use
of the derivative, whether we have elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to
apply hedge accounting. We use a variety of derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to manage or hedge the risks associated with our indebtedness and interest payments. Our
objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, we primarily use interest
rate swaps and caps. We require that hedging derivative instruments be highly effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. As a result, there was no significant
ineffectiveness from any of our derivative activities during the period. We formally designate any instrument that meets these hedging criteria as a hedge at the inception of the derivative contract.   

              As
of December 31, 2009, we had the following outstanding interest rate derivatives related to interest rate risk:   

Interest Rate Derivative    
     
   Number of Instruments    
     
   Notional Amount    

Interest Rate Swaps  

4  
     
  $  
  694.2 million  

Interest Rate Caps  

3  
     
  $  
  388.4 million  

The
carrying value of our interest rate swap agreements, at fair value, is a net liability of $12.7 million as of December 31, 2009, of which $13.0 million is
included with other liabilities and $0.3 million is included with deferred costs and other assets. The interest rate cap agreements were of no net value at December 31, 2009 and we
generally do not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements. The total gross accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our derivative activities, including our share of the other comprehensive
loss from joint venture properties, was approximately $52.3 million as of December 31, 2009.   

              We
are also exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on investments denominated in a foreign currency that we hold, primarily in Japan and Europe. We use currency forward
agreements to manage our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates on certain Yen-denominated receivables. Currency forward agreements involve fixing the USD-Yen exchange
rate for delivery of a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified date. The currency forward agreements are typically cash settled in US dollars for their fair value at or close to their
settlement date. We entered into USD-Yen forwards during 2009 for approximately  3 billion that we expect to receive through April 2011 at an average exchange rate of
97.1 USD:Yen, of which approximately  1.6 billion remains as of December 31, 2009.   

  102  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

The
December 31, 2009 liability balance related to these forwards was $0.7 million and is included in other liabilities. We have reflected the changes in fair value for these forward
contracts in earnings. The underlying currency adjustments on the foreign-denominated receivables are also reflected in income and generally offset the amounts in earnings for these forward contracts.   

We
have no credit-risk-related hedging or derivative activities.   

Noncontrolling Interests and Temporary Equity      

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued accounting standard for noncontrolling interests, which requires a
noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary to be reported as equity and the amount of net income specifically attributable to the noncontrolling interest to be included within consolidated net income.
This standard also requires consistency in the manner of reporting changes in the parent's ownership interest and requires fair value measurement of any noncontrolling equity investment retained in a
deconsolidation. In connection with our adoption which was fully reflected in our December 31, 2008 Form 10-K/A,
we also reviewed and retrospectively adopted the measurement and classification provisions for redeemable securities as further discussed below. As a result, we adjust the carrying amounts of
noncontrolling redeemable interests held by third parties in certain of our properties to redemption values at each reporting date. Because holders of the noncontrolling redeemable interests in
properties can require us to redeem these interests for cash, we classify these noncontrolling redeemable interests outside of permanent equity. These adjustments increased accumulated deficit in
consolidated equity. Adjustments to the carrying amounts of these noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties, to reflect the change in redemption value at the end of each reporting period, are
recorded to accumulated deficit. Additionally, due to certain cash redemption features that may be deemed outside of our control, certain preferred units are also classified as temporary equity.   

              We
classify our Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (or Series I preferred stock) in temporary equity due to the possibility that we could be required to
redeem the security for cash upon the occurrence of a change in control event, which would include a change in the majority of our directors that occurs over a two year period. The carrying amount of
the Series I preferred stock is equal to its liquidation value, which is the amount payable upon the occurrence of such event. The limited partners' interests in the Operating Partnership and
nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in properties are classified in equity as noncontrolling nonredeemable interests.   

              Details
of the carrying amount of our noncontrolling interests that are reflected in permanent equity are as follows as of December 31:   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests (which includes nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, limited partners' interests in the Operating
Partnership and preferred distributions of the Operating Partnership) is now a component of consolidated net income. In addition, the individual components of other comprehensive income are presented
in the aggregate for both controlling and noncontrolling interests, with the portion attributable to noncontrolling interests deducted from comprehensive income attributable to common stockholders.   

  103  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

              A
rollforward of noncontrolling interests for the years ending December 31 is as follows:   

(1)    The
2009 activity includes non-cash distributions of $133.7 million representing the portion of quarterly distributions paid in units.    

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss      

The components of our accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of the following as of December 31:   

Included
in cumulative translation adjustment is the loss related to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on foreign currency denominated debt of $1.7 million and
$46.9 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, that hedges the currency exposure related to certain of our foreign investments. The net unrealized gains as of
December 31, 2009 of $59.4 million represents the valuation and related currency adjustments for our marketable securities, primarily related to our investment in Liberty. In the second
quarter of 2009 we reclassified $140.5 million   

  104  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

from
accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings related to our investment in Liberty as a result of our assessment that the decline in value was deemed an
other-than-temporary impairment.   

Revenue Recognition      

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account for our
leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay
overage rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed the applicable sales threshold.   

              We
structure our leases to allow us to recover a significant portion of our property operating, real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotion expenses from
our tenants. A substantial portion of our leases, other than those for anchor stores, require the tenant to reimburse us for a substantial portion of our operating expenses, including common area
maintenance, or CAM, real estate taxes and insurance. This significantly reduces our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. Such property operating expenses
typically include utility, insurance, security, janitorial, landscaping, food court and other administrative expenses. We accrue reimbursements from tenants for recoverable portions of all these
expenses as revenue in the period the applicable expenditures are incurred. For approximately 80% of our leases in the U.S. regional mall portfolio, we receive a fixed payment from the tenant for the
CAM component. Without the fixed-CAM component, CAM expense reimbursements are based on the tenant's proportionate share of the allocable operating expenses and CAM capital expenditures
for the property. We also receive escrow payments for these reimbursements from substantially all our non-fixed CAM tenants and monthly fixed CAM payments throughout the year. We recognize
differences between estimated recoveries and the final billed amounts in the subsequent year. These differences were not material in any period presented. Our advertising and promotional costs are
expensed as incurred.   

Management Fees and Other Revenues      

Management fees and other revenues are generally received from our unconsolidated joint venture properties as well as third parties.
Management fee revenue is earned based on a contractual percentage of joint venture property revenue. Development fee revenue is earned on a contractual percentage of hard costs to develop a property.
Leasing fee revenue is earned on a contractual per square foot charge based on the square footage of current year leasing activity. We recognize revenue for these services provided when earned based
on the underlying activity.   

              Insurance
premiums written and ceded are recognized on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. Insurance losses are reflected in property operating expenses in the
accompanying statements of operations and comprehensive income and include estimates for losses incurred but not reported as well as losses pending settlement. Estimates for losses are based on
evaluations by third-party actuaries and management's best estimates. Total insurance reserves for our insurance subsidiaries and other self-insurance programs as of December 31,
2009 and 2008 approximated $117.2 million and $116.5 million, respectively, and are included in "Other liabilities and accrued dividends" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

              We
recognize fee revenues from our co-branded gift card programs when the fees are earned under the related arrangements with the card issuer. Generally, these revenues are
recorded at the issuance of the gift card for handling fees.   

Allowance for Credit Losses      

We record a provision for credit losses based on our judgment of a tenant's creditworthiness, ability to pay and probability of
collection. In addition, we also consider the retail sector in which the tenant operates and our historical collection experience in cases of bankruptcy, if applicable. Accounts are written off when
they are deemed to be no   

  105  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  longer
collectible. Presented below is the activity in the allowance for credit losses and includes the activities related to discontinued operations during the following years:   

Income Taxes      

We and certain subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership have elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to REIT qualification. In order to maintain this REIT status, the regulations require us to distribute at least 90% of our taxable
income to stockholders and meet certain other asset and income tests as well as other requirements. We intend to continue to adhere to these requirements and maintain our REIT status and that of the
REIT subsidiaries. As REITs, these entities will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Thus, we
made no provision for federal income taxes for these entities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If Simon Property or the REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, we or that
entity will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates for the years in which it failed to qualify. If we lose our REIT status we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our
failure to qualify was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were satisfied.   

We
have also elected taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, status for some of our subsidiaries. This enables us to provide services that would otherwise be considered impermissible for REITs
and participate in activities that do not qualify as "rents from real property". For these entities, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial
reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is
provided if we believe all or some portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from the change in circumstances that causes a
change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset is included in income.   

              As
of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had a net deferred tax asset of $8.7 million and $8.9 million, respectively, related to our TRS subsidiaries. The net deferred
tax asset is included in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consists primarily of operating losses and other carryforwards for federal income tax
purposes as well as the timing of the deductibility of losses or reserves from insurance subsidiaries. No valuation allowance has been recorded as we believe these amounts will be realized. State
income, franchise or other taxes were not significant in any of the periods presented.   

  106  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions, Disposals, and Impairment     

We acquire properties to generate both current income and long-term appreciation in value. We acquire individual properties or portfolios of other retail real estate
companies that meet our investment criteria and sell properties which no longer meet our strategic criteria. Our consolidated acquisition and disposal activity for the periods presented are
highlighted as follows:   

2009 Acquisitions      

We had no consolidated property acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2009.   

2008 Acquisitions      

Effective January 1, 2008, we acquired additional interests in three existing consolidated properties of between 1.8% and 5%,
for an aggregate $6.2 million in cash. Two of the properties continue to have a noncontrolling interest holder. We now own 100% of the third property.   

2007 Acquisitions      

As a result of the Mills acquisition which is more fully discussed in Note 7, we consolidated two regional mall properties, Town
Center at Cobb and Gwinnett Place. In addition to the Mills acquisition, on March 1, 2007, we acquired the remaining 40% interest in both University Park Mall and University Center located in
Mishawaka, Indiana from our partner and as a result, we now own 100% of these properties. On March 28, 2007, we acquired The Maine Outlet, a 112,000 square foot outlet center located in
Kittery, Maine, adjacent to our Kittery Premium Outlets property. On August 23, 2007, we acquired Las Americas Premium Outlets, a 560,000 square foot upscale outlet center located in
San Diego, California. We also purchased an additional 1% interest in Bangor Mall on July 13, 2007, and an additional 6.5% interest in Montgomery Mall on November 1, 2007. The
aggregate purchase price of the consolidated assets acquired during 2007, excluding Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett Place, was approximately $394.2 million, including the assumption of our
share of debt of the properties acquired.   

2009 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold four consolidated properties for which we received net proceeds of
$3.9 million. The loss on disposal (net) totaled $9.8 million and is included in "(Loss) gain on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities" in the consolidated statements
of operations and comprehensive income.   

2008 Dispositions      

We had no consolidated property dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2008.   

2007 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2007, we sold five consolidated properties for which we received net proceeds of
$56.4 million. The loss on disposal (net) totaled $35.2 million and is included in "Loss on sale of discontinued operations" in the consolidated statements of operations and
comprehensive income.   

2009 Impairment      

In 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $240.1 million ($228.6 million, net of a tax benefit of
$5.8 million and noncontrolling interest holders' share of $5.7 million). As discussed in Note 3, this non-cash charge includes a $140.5 million
other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in Liberty. In addition, the total charge includes adjustments recorded in the fourth quarter in the carrying value of one
wholly-owned and one joint venture regional mall, a write-down of five land parcels and two joint venture non-retail real estate assets, and certain predevelopment costs
related to projects no longer being pursued.   

  107  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions, Disposals, and Impairment (Continued)    

2008 Impairment      

In 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $21.2 million ($19.4 million, net of tax benefit), which resulted primarily
from a $10.5 million reduction in the carrying value of a regional mall to its estimated net realizable value and the write-off of predevelopment costs related to various projects
that we no longer plan to pursue.   

    5.    Per Share Data     

We determine basic earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. We determine diluted earnings per share based
on the
weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding combined with the incremental weighted average shares that would have been outstanding assuming all dilutive potential common shares were
converted into shares at the earliest date possible. The following table sets forth the computation of our basic and diluted earnings per share.   

For
the year ending December 31, 2009, potentially dilutive securities include stock options, convertible preferred stock, contingently issuable shares from stock dividends,
units that are exchangeable for common stock and preferred units that are convertible into units or exchangeable for our preferred stock. The only securities that had a dilutive effect for the year
ended December 31, 2009 were stock options and contingently issuable shares from stock dividends. The only security that had a dilutive effect for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007 were stock options.   

              We
accrue dividends when they are declared. The taxable nature of the dividends declared for each of the years ended as indicated is summarized as follows:   

108  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

6.    Investment Properties     

Investment properties consist of the following as of December 31:   

7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities     

Joint ventures are common in the real estate industry. We use joint ventures to finance properties, develop new properties, and diversify our risk in a particular property or
portfolio.
We held joint venture ownership interests in 103 properties in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009. We also held interests in two joint ventures which owned 51 European shopping
centers as of December 31, 2009 and 52 as of December 31, 2008. We also held interests in eight joint venture properties under operation in Japan, one joint venture property in
Mexico, and one joint venture property in Korea. We account for these joint venture properties using the equity method of accounting.   

              Substantially
all of our joint venture properties are subject to rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale or marketing rights for partners which are
customary in real estate joint venture agreements and the industry. Our partners in these joint ventures may initiate these provisions at any time (subject to any applicable lock up or similar
restrictions), which could result in either the sale of our interest or the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire the joint venture interest from our partner.   

     Acquisition of The Mills Corporation by SPG-FCM      

              On February 16, 2007, SPG-FCM, a 50/50 joint venture between an affiliate of the Operating Partnership and funds
managed by Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C., or Farallon, entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire all of the outstanding common stock of Mills for $25.25 per common share in
cash. The acquisition of Mills and its interests in the 36 properties that remain at December 31, 2009 was completed in April 2007. As of December 31, 2009, we and Farallon
had each funded $650.0 million into SPG-FCM to acquire all of the common stock of Mills. As part of the transaction, the Operating Partnership also made loans to SPG-FCM
and Mills at rates of LIBOR plus 270-275 basis points. These funds were used by SPG-FCM and Mills to repay loans and other obligations of Mills, including the redemption of
preferred stock, during 2007. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of our loan to SPG-FCM was $632.0 million, and the average outstanding balance during the year
ended December 31, 2009 of all loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills was approximately $589.5 million. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded approximately $9.3 million,
$15.3 million and $39.1 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to these loans, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including fee income amortization
related to up-front fees on loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills, during 2009, 2008 and 2007 of approximately $3.7 million, $3.1 million and $17.4 million (net
of inter-entity eliminations), respectively, for providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM. The existing loan facility to SPG-FCM bears a rate of LIBOR
plus 275 basis points and matures on June 7, 2010, with two available one-year extensions. Fees charged on loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the life of the loan.   

  109  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

              As
a result of the change in control of Mills, holders of Mills' Series F convertible cumulative redeemable preferred stock had the right to require the repurchase of their
shares for cash equal to the liquidation preference per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. During the second quarter of 2007, all of the holders of Mills' Series F preferred stock
exercised this right, and Mills redeemed this series of preferred stock for approximately $333.2 million, including accrued dividends. Further, as of August 1, 2007, The Mills
Corporation was liquidated and the holders of the remaining series' of Mills preferred stock were paid a liquidation preference of approximately $693.0 million, including accrued dividends.   

              During
the third quarter of 2007, the holders of less than 5,000 common units in the Mills' operating partnership, or Mills units, received $25.25 in cash, and those holding 5,000 or
more Mills units had the option to exchange for cash of $25.25, or Units of the Operating Partnership based on a fixed exchange ratio of 0.211 Operating Partnership units for each Mills unit. That
option expired on August 1, 2007. Holders electing to exchange received 66,036 units in the Operating Partnership for their Mills units. The remaining Mills units were exchanged for cash.   

              Effective
July 1, 2007, we or an affiliate of ours began serving as the manager for substantially all of the properties in which SPG-FCM holds an interest. In
conjunction with the Mills acquisition, we acquired a majority interest in two properties in which we previously held a 50% ownership interest (Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett Place) and as a result
we have consolidated these two properties at the date of acquisition. We have
reclassified the results of these properties in the Joint Venture Statements of Operations into "Income from consolidated joint venture interests."   

              The
Mills acquisition involved the purchase of all of Mills' outstanding shares of common stock and common units for approximately $1.7 billion (at $25.25 per share or unit), the
assumption of $954.9 million of preferred stock, the assumption of a proportionate share of property-level mortgage debt, of which SPG-FCM's share approximated $3.8 billion,
the assumption of $1.2 billion in unsecured loans provided by us, costs to effect the acquisition, and certain liabilities and contingencies, including an ongoing investigation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $8 billion. The valuations were developed with the assistance of a third-party professional appraisal firm.   

              We
subsequently sold our interest in Cincinnati Mills and Broward and Westland Malls, which we acquired through the Mills acquisition, and recognized no gain or loss on these
dispositions.   

     Summary Financial Information      

              A summary of our investments in joint ventures and share of income from such joint ventures follows. We condensed into separate line
items major captions of the statements of operations for joint venture interests sold or consolidated. Consolidation occurs when we acquire an additional interest in the joint venture and as a result,
gain control of the property or become the primary beneficiary of a VIE. We reclassified these line items into "Income from discontinued joint venture interests" and "Income from consolidated joint
venture interests" so that we may present   

  110  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

comparative
results of operations for those joint venture interests held as of December 31, 2009. Balance sheet information for the joint ventures is as follows:   

"Excess
Investment" represents the unamortized difference of our investment over our share of the equity in the underlying net assets of the joint ventures acquired. We amortize excess
investment over the life of the related properties, typically no greater than 40 years, and the amortization is included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.   

As
of December 31, 2009, scheduled principal repayments on joint venture properties' mortgages and other indebtedness are as follows:   

111  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

This
debt becomes due in installments over various terms extending through 2036 with interest rates ranging from 0.52% to 9.35% and a weighted average rate of 5.06% at
December 31, 2009.   

2009 Impairment      

In December 2009 we recognized non-cash impairment charges of $7.6 million representing our share of impairment
charges on joint venture properties. This charge represents adjustments to the carrying value of certain parcels of land and the write-off of predevelopment costs related to certain
projects no longer being pursued. In addition, in December 2009 we recognized $35.1 million of impairment charges for investments in certain   

  112  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

  unconsolidated
entities including one regional mall and two non-retail real estate assets for which declines in value below our carrying amount were deemed
other-than-temporary.   

2007 Impairment      

During the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $55.1 million, $36.5 million net of tax benefit,
representing our entire equity investment in a joint venture, including interest capitalized on our invested equity, which had invested in a parcel of land.   

     International Joint Venture Investments      

                 European Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international operations in Europe through our two European
joint venture investment entities; Simon Ivanhoe
S. .r.l., or Simon Ivanhoe, and Gallerie Commerciali Italia, or GCI. The carrying amount of our total combined investment in these two joint venture investments is $298.8 million
and $224.2 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, including all related components of other comprehensive income. The Operating Partnership has a 50% ownership in Simon
Ivanhoe and a 49% ownership in GCI as of December 31, 2009. On December 14, 2009, we made an additional capital contribution to GCI of $79.4 million which was used to fund certain
liabilities of the joint venture. The contribution increased our investment in GCI but did not impact our ownership percentage of the venture.   

              On
July 5, 2007, Simon Ivanhoe completed the sale of five non-core assets in Poland and we presented our share of the gain upon this disposition in "(Loss) gain on
sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income.   

Asian Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in Japan through joint
ventures with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. The
carrying amount of our investment in these Premium Outlet joint ventures in Japan is $302.2 million and $312.6 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, including
all related components of other comprehensive income. We have a 40% ownership in these Japan Premium Outlet Centers through a joint venture arrangement. During 2007, we completed construction and
opened our first Premium Outlet in Korea. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008 respectively, our investment in our Premium Outlet in Korea, for which we hold a 50% ownership interest, approximated
$26.1 million and $18.0 million including all related components of other comprehensive income.   

              In
December 2009, we recognized a loss on our 32.5% interests in our shopping centers operating or under development in China. The interests were sold to affiliates of our Chinese
partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million which is included in "(Loss) gain on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities" in
the 2009 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income.   

  113  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments     

Our mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the impact of derivative instruments, consist of the following as of December 31:   

General.        At December 31, 2009, we have pledged 80 properties as collateral to secure related
mortgage notes including 8 pools of
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 34 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the cross-defaulted
package may constitute a default under all such mortgages and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the collateral package. Of our 80 encumbered properties,
indebtedness on 24 of these encumbered properties and our unsecured debt are subject to various financial performance covenants relating to leverage ratios, annual real property appraisal
requirements, debt service coverage ratios, minimum net worth ratios, debt-to-market capitalization, and/or minimum equity values. Our mortgages and other indebtedness may be
prepaid but are generally subject to payment of a yield-maintenance premium or defeasance.   

              Some
of the limited partners guarantee a portion of our consolidated debt through foreclosure guarantees. In total, 54 limited partners provide guarantees of foreclosure of
$291.1 million of our consolidated debt at three consolidated properties. In each case, the loans were made by unrelated third party institutional lenders and the guarantees are for the benefit
of each lender. In the event of foreclosure of the mortgaged property, the proceeds from the sale of the property are first applied against the amount of the guarantee and also reduce the amount
payable under the guarantee. To the extent the sale proceeds from the disposal of the property do not cover the amount of the guarantee, then the limited partner is liable to pay the difference
between the sale proceeds and the amount of the guarantee so that the entire amount guaranteed to the lender is satisfied. The debt is non-recourse to us and our affiliates.   

     Unsecured Debt      

              Our unsecured debt consists of approximately $11.6 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating Partnership and
$446.1 million outstanding under our $3.5 billion unsecured credit facility, or the Credit Facility, at December 31, 2009. The total outstanding balance of the Credit Facility as
of December 31, 2009 was comprised of the U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings. The balance as of December 31, 2009 reflects interest at LIBOR
plus 37.5 basis points and an additional facility fee of 12.5 basis points as these borrowings were made under our prior Credit Facility. On December 8, 2009, the Operating Partnership entered
into a new unsecured revolving corporate credit facility to replace the previous Credit Facility providing an initial borrowing capacity of   

  114  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

$3.565 billion.
The new credit facility contains an accordion feature allowing the maximum borrowing capacity to expand to $4.0 billion. The new credit facility matures on
March 31, 2013. The base interest on the new credit facility is LIBOR plus 210 basis points and includes a facility fee of 40 basis points. Borrowings on the new facility were not
drawn until January 5, 2010 when the Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings on the Credit Facility were transitioned to the new credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, we are
in compliance with all of the covenants of our unsecured debt.   

              During
the year ended December 31, 2009, we drew amounts from our prior Credit Facility to fund the redemption of $600.0 million of maturing senior unsecured notes. We
repaid a total of $1.2 billion on our prior Credit Facility during the year ended December 31, 2009. The maximum outstanding balance during the year ended December 31, 2009 was
approximately $1.6 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average outstanding balance on the prior Credit Facility was approximately $669.8 million.   

              On
March 25, 2009, the Operating Partnership issued $650.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 10.35%. We used proceeds from the offering to
reduce borrowings on the prior Credit Facility.   

              On
May 15, 2009, the Operating Partnership issued $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 6.75%. We used the proceeds from the offering for
general business purposes. The offering of these notes was re-opened on August 11, 2009, and an additional $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes were issued. We used the
proceeds from the offering for general business purposes.   

     Secured Debt      

              The balance of fixed and variable rate mortgage notes was $6.6 billion and $6.3 billion as of December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively. Of the 2009 amount, $5.6 billion is nonrecourse to us. The fixed-rate mortgages generally require monthly payments of principal and/or interest. The interest
rates of variable-rate mortgages are typically based on LIBOR.   

On
July 30, 2009, we borrowed $400.0 million on a mortgage that is secured by Greenwood Park Mall, Southpark Mall, and Walt Whitman Mall, which matures on August 1,
2016 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 8.00%. This loan is cross-collateralized and contains cross default provisions as it pertains to these properties.   

Debt Maturity and Other      

              Our scheduled principal repayments on indebtedness as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:   

Our
cash paid for interest in each period, net of any amounts capitalized, was as follows:   

115  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

Derivative Financial Instruments      

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage
exposure to interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are
also exposed to foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our
intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate
protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. If the anticipated transaction does not occur, the cost is charged to consolidated net income. Upon
completion of the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

              As
of December 31, 2009, the fair value of our outstanding consolidated derivatives is a net liability of $12.7 million, of which $13.0 million is included with
other liabilities and $0.3 million is included with deferred costs and other assets. In addition, we recorded the benefits from our treasury lock and interest rate hedge agreements in
accumulated other comprehensive loss and the unamortized balance of these agreements is $2.8 million as of December 31, 2009. The net deficit from terminated swap agreements is also
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss and the unamortized balance is $2.0 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, our outstanding LIBOR based
derivative contracts consisted of:   

interest rate cap protection agreements with a notional amount of $388.4 million which mature in July 2010
and June 2014, and     
           fixed rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $694.2 million which have a weighted average fixed pay rate of
2.79% and a weighted average variable receive rate of 0.60%.    

Within
the next year, we expect to reclassify to earnings approximately $14.0 million of losses from the current balance held in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The amount
of ineffectiveness relating to cash flow hedges recognized in income during the periods presented was not material.   

              Our
joint ventures may also enter into interest rate swaps or caps, which are recorded at fair value on the joint venture balance sheets. Included in our accumulated other comprehensive
loss as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 is our share of the joint ventures' accumulated derivative losses of $30.1 million and $19.6 million, respectively.   

     Fair Value of Financial Instruments      

              The carrying value of our variable-rate mortgages and other loans approximates their fair values. We estimate the fair
values of consolidated fixed-rate mortgages using cash flows discounted at current borrowing rates and other indebtedness using cash flows discounted at
current market rates. We estimate the fair values of consolidated fixed-rate unsecured notes using quoted market prices, or, if no quoted market prices are available, we use quoted market
prices for securities with similar terms and maturities. The fair values of financial instruments and our related discount rate assumptions used in the estimation of fair value for our consolidated
fixed-rate mortgages and other indebtedness as of December 31 is summarized as follows:   

116  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    9.    Rentals under Operating Leases     

Future minimum rentals to be received under noncancelable tenant operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter, excluding tenant reimbursements of operating
expenses
and percentage rent based on tenant sales volume as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:   

Approximately
0.7% of future minimum rents to be received are attributable to leases with an affiliate of a limited partner in the Operating Partnership.   

    10.    Equity     

Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify excess common stock into one or more additional classes and series of capital stock, to establish the number of shares in each
class
or series and to fix the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, and qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption of such class or
series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of additional classes or series of capital stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
control of Simon Property without further action of the stockholders. The ability to issue additional classes or series of capital stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible
acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our
outstanding voting stock.   

              Holders
of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, other than for the election of directors. At the
time of the initial public offering of our predecessor in 1993, the charter of the predecessor gave Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their affiliates, or the Simons, the right
to elect four of the members of the Board of Directors, conditioned upon the Simons, or entities they control, maintaining specified levels of equity ownership in our predecessor, the Operating
Partnership and all subsidiaries. In addition, at that time, Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, acquired 3,200,000 shares of our Class B common stock. MSA placed the
Class B common stock into a voting trust under which the Simons were the sole trustees. These voting trustees had the authority to elect up to four members of the Board of Directors. These same
arrangements were incorporated into our Charter in 1998 during the combination of our predecessor and Corporate Property Investors, Inc. Shares of Class B common stock convert
automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock upon the sale or transfer thereof to a person not affiliated with the estate of Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon or
David Simon. The Class B shares can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders. At the initial offering we reserved 3,200,000 shares of common stock for
the possible conversion of the outstanding Class B shares. During 2008, all outstanding Class C shares were converted to 4,000 shares of common stock.   

     Common Stock Issuances and Repurchases      

              In 2009, we issued 1,866,474 shares of common stock to 62 limited partners in exchange for an equal number of Units.   

  117  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

              We
issued 181,850 shares of common stock related to employee and director stock options exercised during 2009. We used the net proceeds from the option exercises of approximately
$4.6 million to acquire additional units. The Operating Partnership used the net proceeds for general business purposes.   

              On
December 18, 2009, we issued 1,802,063 shares of common stock as part of the quarterly dividend to common stockholders at an average closing price of $77.78 per share.
The Operating Partnership also issued 365,981 units to limited partners related to its distribution.   

              On
September 18, 2009, we issued 2,029,044 shares of common stock as part of the quarterly dividend to common stockholders at an average closing price of $73.97 per share.
The Operating Partnership also issued 411,489 units to limited partners related to its distribution.   

              On
June 19, 2009, we issued 2,525,204 shares of common stock as part of the quarterly dividend to common stockholders at an average closing price of $52.92 per share. The
Operating Partnership also issued 514,720 units to limited partners related to its distribution.   

On
May 12, 2009, we issued 23,000,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $50.00 per share. Proceeds from the offering were used for
general business purposes.   

              On
March 25, 2009, we issued 17,250,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $31.50 per share. Proceeds from the offering were used to
repay amounts drawn on the Credit Facility and for general business purposes.   

              On
March 18, 2009, we issued 5,519,765 shares of common stock as part of the quarterly dividend to common stockholders at an average closing price of $35.38 per share. The
Operating Partnership also issued 1,345,151 units to limited partners related to its distribution.   

              Our
Board had authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of common stock through July 2009. No purchases were made as part of this program in 2009. The program was not
renewed and has now expired.   

    Temporary Equity     

              As discussed in Note 3, as a result of the retrospective adoption of an accounting standard for noncontrolling interests, we
classify as temporary equity those securities for which there is the possibility that we could be required to redeem the security for cash irrespective of the probability of such a possibility. As a
result, we reclassified one series of preferred stock from permanent equity, and we maintained in temporary equity several series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership. Each of these
securities that are classified in temporary equity is discussed below.   

                 Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock.        This series of preferred stock was issued in
connection with our acquisition of Chelsea
Property Group in 2004. The terms of this series of preferred stock are substantially identical to those of the related series of 6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Units, or the
Series I preferred units, described below. During 2009, holders exchanged 500,891 preferred units for an equal number of shares of preferred stock. In prior years, 1,115,442 preferred units had
been exchanged for an equal number of shares of preferred stock. Dividends accrue quarterly at an annual rate of 6% per share. However, if the redemption date falls between the record date and the
preferred stock dividend payment date, the redemption price will be the liquidation preference only. The redemption may occur only if, for 20 trading days within a period of
30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day before notice of redemption is issued, the closing price per share of the common stock exceeds 130% of the applicable redemption price.
This series of preferred stock is also convertible into common stock by the holder upon the occurrence of a conversion triggering event. A conversion triggering event includes the following:
(a) if we call the preferred stock for redemption; or, (b) if we are a party to a consolidation, merger, share exchange, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; or,
(c) if during any fiscal quarter after the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2004, the closing sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of
30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter exceeds 125% of the applicable conversion price. If the   

  118  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

closing
trigger price condition is not met at the end of any quarter, then conversions are not permitted in the following quarter. This series of preferred stock can also be put to us for cash upon
the occurrence of a change of control event, which would include a change in the majority of our directors that occurs over a two year period. As a result, this series of preferred stock is classified
outside permanent equity because such change in composition could be deemed outside our control. The carrying amount of the Series I Preferred Stock of $404,558 and $379,513 as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is equal to its liquidation value, which is the amount payable upon the occurrence of such event.   

              As
of December 31, 2009, the conversion trigger price of $74.18 had been met and each share of Series I preferred stock is now convertible into 0.847495 of a share of
common stock through March 31, 2010. During 2009, the conversion trigger price was met and accordingly holders of the Series I preferred stock did not have the right to convert their
shares to common stock during the year.   

                 Limited Partners' Preferred Interests in the Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Redeemable Interests in Properties.        The following table
summarizes each series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership and the
amount of the noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties as of December 31. The noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties are more fully discussed in Note 3. The
redemption features of each of these series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership contain provisions which could require us to settle the redemption in cash. As a result, these series of
preferred units in the Operating Partnership, along with the noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties, remain classified outside permanent equity.   

6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues
cumulative quarterly distributions at $3.00 per
unit. The preferred units are exchangeable for shares of Series I preferred stock on a one for one basis or, at Simon's option, may be settled in cash. In 2009, holders exchanged 500,891
preferred units of this series for an equal number of shares of Series I preferred stock. The preferred units have terms that are substantially identical to the Series I preferred stock.   

                 7.75%/8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units was redeemable on or
after January 1, 2011, or earlier upon
the occurrence of certain tax triggering events, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation value ($100.00 per unit), accrued and unpaid distributions. On June 30, 2009, upon the occurrence
of a tax triggering event, the Operating Partnership redeemed all outstanding units for cash.   

7.50% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $7.50 annually.
The Operating Partnership may redeem the preferred units on or after November 10, 2013, unless there is the occurrence of certain tax triggering events such as death of the initial holder, or
the transfer of any units to any person or entity other than the persons or entities entitled to the benefits of the original   

  119  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

holder.
The redemption price is the liquidation value ($100.00 per preferred unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions, payable either in cash or fully registered shares of our common stock at our
election. In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred units, the occurrence of certain tax triggering events applicable to the holder, or on or after November 10, 2006, the holder
may require the Operating Partnership to redeem the preferred units at the same redemption price payable at the option of the Operating Partnership in either cash or shares of common stock.   

                 8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units was redeemed on
August 27, 2009, at liquidation value ($30.00 per
unit), and $0.3867 in accrued and unpaid distributions and was paid in the form of 614,055 units of the Operating Partnership.   

    Permanent Equity     

                 Preferred Stock.        Dividends on all series of preferred stock are calculated based upon the preferred
stock's preferred return multiplied by the
preferred stock's corresponding liquidation value. The Operating Partnership pays preferred distributions to us equal to the dividends we pay on the preferred stock issued.   

Series C 7.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D 8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        We issued these two
series of preferred stock in 1999 to facilitate the possible conversion of two related series of preferred units: 7.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Units (classified as noncontrolling interests)
and the 8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units (classified as temporary equity). Each of these series of preferred stock has terms that are substantially identical to the related series of
preferred units. There are no shares of either series currently outstanding.   

Series J 8 3 / 8 % Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        We issued this
series of preferred stock in 2004 to replace a series of
Chelsea preferred stock. Dividends accrue quarterly at an annual rate of 8 3 / 8 % per share. We can redeem this series, in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2027 at a
redemption price of $50.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. This preferred stock was issued at a premium of $7.5 million as of the date of our acquisition of Chelsea. The
unamortized premium included in the carrying value of the preferred stock at December 2009 and 2008 was $5.9 million and $6.2 million, respectively.   

Noncontrolling Interests     

              The following series of preferred units is included in noncontrolling interests due to the ability for the Operating Partnership to
settle the redemption in either cash or units at its election. The noncontrolling interests in the consolidated balance sheets also include the third parties' nonredeemable minority holdings in
properties that we consolidate but do not wholly-own and the limited partners' common interest in the Operating Partnership due to our ability to settle any redemption in cash or common
stock at our election. These noncontrolling interests are classified as permanent equity in connection with our accounting for noncontrolling interests as discussed in Note 3.   

7.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units was redeemed on
August 27, 2009, at
liquidation value ($28.00 per unit), and $0.3158 in accrued and unpaid distributions and was paid in the form of 30,234 units of the Operating Partnership.   

    Other Equity Activity     

                 Notes Receivable from Former CPI Stockholders.        Notes receivable of $17.2 million from stockholders
of an entity we acquired in 1998 are
reflected as a deduction from capital in excess of par value in the consolidated statements of equity in the accompanying financial statements. The notes do not bear interest and become due at the
time the underlying shares are sold.   

                 The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.        This plan, or the 1998 plan, provides for the grant
of equity-based awards in the form of options
to purchase shares, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock grants and   

  120  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

performance
unit awards. Options may be granted which are qualified as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and options which are not so qualified. An
aggregate of 11,300,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the 1998 plan. Additionally, the partnership agreement requires us to sell shares of common stock to the
Operating Partnership, at fair value, sufficient to satisfy the exercising of any stock options, and for us to purchase units for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares.   

                 Administration.        The 1998 plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The committee determines which eligible
individuals may participate and the type, extent and terms of the awards to be granted to them. In addition, the committee interprets the 1998 plan and makes all other determinations deemed advisable
for its administration. Options granted to employees become exercisable over the period determined by the committee. The exercise price of an employee option may not be less than the fair market value
of the shares on the date of grant. Employee options generally vest over a three-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. Since 2001, we have not granted any options to
employees, except for a series of reload options we assumed as part of a prior business combination.   

                 Automatic Awards For Eligible Directors.        Directors who are not also our employees or employees of our
affiliates receive automatic awards under the
1998 plan. Until 2003, these awards took the form of stock options. Since then,
the awards have been shares of restricted stock. Currently, each eligible director receives on the first day of the first calendar month following his or her initial election an award of restricted
stock with a value of $82,500 (pro-rated for partial years of service). Thereafter, as of the date of each annual meeting of stockholders, eligible directors who are re-elected
receive an award of restricted stock having a value of $82,500. In addition, eligible directors who serve as chairpersons of the standing committees (excluding the Executive Committee) receive an
additional annual award of restricted stock having a value of $10,000 (in the case of the Audit Committee) or $7,500 (in the case of all other standing committees). The Lead Director also receives an
annual restricted stock award having a value of $12,500. The restricted stock vests in full after one year.   

Once
vested, the delivery of the shares of restricted stock (including reinvested dividends) is deferred under our Director Deferred Compensation Plan until the director retires, dies
or becomes disabled or otherwise no longer serves as a director. The directors may vote and are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares; however, any dividends on the shares of
restricted stock must be reinvested in shares of common stock and held in the deferred compensation plan until the shares of restricted stock are delivered to the former director. The committee
successively approved annual stock incentive programs each year from 2001 until 2009 when no program was established.   

In
addition to automatic awards, eligible directors may be granted discretionary awards under the 1998 plan.   

                 Restricted Stock.        The 1998 plan also provides for shares of restricted stock to be granted to certain
employees at no cost to those employees,
subject to achievement of certain financial and return-based performance measures established by the committee related to the most recent year's performance. Once granted, the shares of restricted
stock then vest annually over a four-year period (25% each year) beginning on January 1 of each year. The cost of restricted stock grants, which is based upon the stock's fair
market value on the grant date, is charged to earnings ratably over the vesting period. Through December 31, 2009 a total of 4,992,636 shares of restricted stock, net of forfeitures,
have been awarded under the plan. Information regarding restricted stock awards is summarized in the following table for each of the years presented:   

121  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

The
weighted average life of our outstanding options as of December 31, 2009 is 1.7 years. Information relating to Director Options and Employee Options from
December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2009 is as follows:   

We
also maintain a tax-qualified retirement 401(k) savings plan and offer no other postretirement or post employment benefits to our employees.   

     Exchange Rights      

              Limited partners in the Operating Partnership have the right to exchange all or any portion of their units for shares of common stock
on a one-for-one basis or cash, as determined by the Board of Directors. The amount of cash to be paid if the exchange right is exercised and the cash option is selected will
be based on the trading price of our common stock at that time. At December 31, 2009, we had reserved 69,501,466 shares of common stock for possible issuance upon the exchange of units,
stock options, and Class B common stock and certain convertible preferred stock.   

  122  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    11.    Commitments and Contingencies     

Litigation      

              We are involved in various other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We believe that such litigation,
claims and administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable and the
amount can be reasonably estimated.   

     Lease Commitments      

              As of December 31, 2009, a total of 29 of the consolidated properties are subject to ground leases. The termination dates of
these ground leases range from 2012 to 2090. These ground leases generally require us to make fixed annual rental payments, or a fixed annual rental plus a percentage rent component based upon the
revenues or total sales of the property. Some of these leases also include escalation clauses and renewal options. We incurred ground lease expense included in other expense as follows:   

Future
minimum lease payments due under these ground leases for years ending December 31, excluding applicable extension options, are as follows:   

Insurance      

              We maintain commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the
United States through wholly-owned captive insurance entities and other self-insurance mechanisms. Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd. are our
wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries, and have agreed to indemnify our general liability carrier for a specific layer of losses for the properties that are covered under these arrangements. The
carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through these captive insurance
entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion per
occurrence for certified foreign acts of terrorism and $500 million per occurrence for non-certified domestic acts of terrorism. The current federal laws which provide this coverage
are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks in high profile markets could adversely affect our property values,
revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

  123  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    11.    Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

     Guarantees of Indebtedness      

              Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by the joint venture property, which is
non-recourse to us. As of December 31, 2009, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees of $47.2 million underlying joint venture related mortgage or other indebtedness.
Mortgages which are guaranteed by us are secured by the property of the joint venture and that property could be sold in order to satisfy the outstanding obligation.   

     Concentration of Credit Risk      

              We are subject to risks incidental to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate. These risks include, among others, the
risks normally associated with changes in the general economic climate, trends in the retail industry, creditworthiness of tenants, competition for tenants and customers, changes in tax laws, interest
rate and foreign currency levels, the availability of financing, and potential liability under environmental and other laws. Our regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, The Mills, and
community/lifestyle centers rely heavily upon anchor tenants like most retail properties. Four retailers occupied 535 of the approximately 1,325 anchor stores in the properties as of
December 31, 2009. An affiliate of one of these retailers is a limited partner in the Operating Partnership.   

     Limited Life Partnerships      

              We are the controlling partner in several consolidated partnerships that have a limited life. We estimated the settlement values of
these noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 as approximately $115 million and $130 million, respectively. The settlement values are based on the estimated fair
values upon a hypothetical liquidation of the partnership interests and estimated yield maintenance or prepayment penalties associated with the payment to settle any underlying secured mortgage debt.   

    12.    Related Party Transactions     

Our management company provides management, insurance, and other services to Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., a related party, and other non-owned properties.
Amounts for services provided by our management company and its affiliates to our unconsolidated joint ventures and other related parties were as follows:   

During
2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded interest income of $9.3 million, $15.3 million and $39.1 million respectively, and financing fee income of
$3.7 million, $3.1 million and $17.4 million, respectively, net of inter-entity eliminations, related to the loans that we have provided to Mills and SPG-FCM and
lending financing services to those entities and the properties in which they hold an ownership interest.   

  124  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    13.    Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements     

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new accounting guidance on business combinations and noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial
statements which requires an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date,
with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. The guidance also requires acquisition related costs to be expensed as incurred. The guidance is effective
for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. On January 1, 2009, we adopted the guidance which did not have a significant impact on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.   

              In
February 2008, the FASB issued a staff position which permitted a one-year deferral for the implementation of previously issued guidance related to fair value
measurements with regard to nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). On
January 1, 2009, we adopted the fair value measurement guidance as it relates to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
financial statements on at least an annual basis. The adoption had no impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The provisions of the guidance are applied at such time as
a fair value measurement of a nonfinancial asset or nonfinancial liability is required, which may result in a fair value that is materially different than would have been calculated prior to adoption.   

In
June 2008, the FASB ratified guidance which provides an entity use a two step approach to evaluate whether an equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded feature) is indexed to
its own stock, including evaluating the instrument's contingent exercise and settlement provisions. We adopted the guidance on January 1, 2009 which had no impact on our financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.   

              On
January 1, 2009, we adopted guidance on determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities. Under this guidance, unvested
share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and are included in the computation of earnings
per share pursuant to the two-class method. The adoption of the guidance did not have a significant impact on reported earnings per share.   

              In
May 2009, the FASB issued guidance which established general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial
statements are issued or are available to be issued. The statement introduces new terminology but is based on the same principles that previously existed in the accounting standards. The guidance
requires disclosure of the date through which management has evaluated subsequent events and whether that date represents the date the financial statements were issued or the date the financial
statements were available to be issued. The guidance was effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of this statement did not have any impact on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

              In
June 2009, the FASB issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) which is effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The
Codification defines a new hierarchy for U.S. GAAP and establishes the Codification as the sole source for authoritative guidance to be applied by nongovernmental entities. The adoption of the
Codification changed the manner in which U.S. GAAP guidance is referenced, but did not have any impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

In
June 2009, the FASB also issued an amendment to the accounting and disclosure requirements for the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIEs). This amendment requires an
enterprise to perform a qualitative analysis when determining whether or not it must consolidate a VIE. The amendment also requires an enterprise to continuously reassess whether it must consolidate a
VIE. Additionally, the amendment requires enhanced disclosures about an enterprise's involvement with VIEs and any significant change in risk exposure due to that involvement, as well as how its
involvement with VIEs impacts the enterprise's financial statements. Finally, an enterprise will be required to disclose significant judgments and assumptions used to determine whether or not to
consolidate a VIE. This amendment is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. Management is in the process of determining the impact of
adopting this amendment.   

  125  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    14.    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)     

Quarterly 2009 and 2008 data is summarized in the table below. Quarterly amounts may not equal annual amounts due to rounding.   

15.    Subsequent Events     

We entered into a definitive agreement in December 2009 to acquire all of the outlet shopping centers currently owned by Prime Outlets Acquisition Company and certain of its
affiliated
entities, or the Prime Outlets, subject to Prime Outlets' existing fixed rate indebtedness and preferred stock. The Prime Outlets consist of 22 outlet centers located in major metropolitan
markets. We will pay consideration (consisting of cash and units of the Operating Partnership) of approximately $0.7 billion for the owners' interests in the Prime Outlets. The acquisition is
subject to several closing conditions relating to certain financing arrangements of the Prime Outlets. Assuming all closing conditions are satisfied on a timely basis, we expect the transaction will
close in the second quarter of 2010.   

              On
January 12, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of 2.0 years
and a weighted coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior unsecured notes that closed
on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of $400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of   

  126  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    15.    Subsequent Events (Continued)    

5.65%
notes due 2020 and $600.0 million of 6.75% notes due 2040. We will report a $165.6 million charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

              On
February 4, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc., or Ivanhoe Cambridge, entered into a definitive agreement to sell all of the interests in Simon
Ivanhoe which owns seven shopping centers located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners will receive consideration of  715 million for the
interests, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We expect our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe to be approximately $300 million. The transaction
is scheduled to close during the first half of 2010, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals.   

              On
February 16, 2010, we announced that we had made a written offer in early February to acquire General Growth Properties, Inc. (or General Growth) in a transaction valued at more than
$10 billion, including approximately $9 billion in cash. Of this consideration, approximately $7 billion will be paid to unsecured creditors, representing par value plus accrued and unpaid dividends
and interest. The transaction would not be subject to a financing condition and would be financed through cash on hand, asset sales and through equity co-investments in acquired properties by
strategic institutional investors, with the balance coming from our existing credit facility. We indicated our willingness to discuss consideration consisting in whole or in part of our common equity
in lieu of the cash portion of the consideration to General Growth's stockholders, and perhaps certain of its unsecured creditors, for those who would prefer to receive equity. The offer is subject to
confirmatory due diligence and the negotiation and execution of a definitive transaction agreement, as well as required bankruptcy court and creditor approvals. As of the filing of this report, no
transaction has occurred.   

  127  

10-K
 2
 a2196642zf1_10-k.pdf
 10-K

<EX-21.1>
 3
 a2196642zex-21_1.htm
 EX-21.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 21.1            

    List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property     

Subsidiary

Jurisdiction    

Simon Property Group, L.P.  
     
   Delaware  

The Retail Property Trust  
     
   Massachusetts  

Simon Property Group (Illinois), L.P.  
     
   Illinois  

Simon Property Group (Texas), L.P.  
     
   Texas  

Shopping Center Associates  
     
   New York  

Simon Capital Limited Partnership  
     
   Delaware  

M.S. Management Associates, Inc.  
     
   Delaware  

Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd.  
     
   Bermuda  

Marigold Indemnity, Ltd.  
     
   Delaware  

Bridgwood Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
   Bermuda  

Simon Business Network, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Brand Ventures, LLC  
     
   Indiana  

Simon Global Limited  
     
   United Kingdom  

Simon Services, Inc.  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P.  
     
   Delaware  

SPGGC, LLC  
     
   Virginia  

Kravco Simon Investments, L.P.  
     
   Pennsylvania  

SPG ML Holdings, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Management Associates II, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Management Associates, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

CPG Partners, L.P.  
     
   Delaware  

Omits
names of subsidiaries that as of December 31, 2009 were not, in the aggregate, a "significant subsidiary."   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 21.1   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 a2196642zf3_ex-211.pdf
 EX-21.1

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a2196642zex-23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

              We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property
Group, Inc. of our report dated February 25, 2010 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 25,
2010, with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, included in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders of Simon
Property Group, Inc.   

              Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of Simon
Property Group, Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date is February 25, 2010, the financial statement schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   

              We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

(1)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-157794) of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      (2)    Registration
Statement (Form S-4 No. 333-118427) of Simon Property Group, Inc;
      (3)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-101185) pertaining to the Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan;
      (4)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-82471) pertaining to the Simon Property Group and Adopting Entities Matching
Savings Plan;
      (5)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63919) pertaining to the Corporate Property Investors, Inc. and Corporate
Realty Consultants, Inc. Employee Share Purchase Plan;    

of
our report dated February 25, 2010 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries and our report dated February 25, 2010, with
respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, both incorporated by reference herein, and our report included in the
preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property
Group, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 a2196642zf5_ex-231.pdf
 EX-23.1

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 a2196642zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

  I,
David Simon, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date: February 25, 2010  

/s/ DAVID SIMON  

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 a2196642zf7_ex-311.pdf
 EX-31.1

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 a2196642zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

  I,
Stephen E. Sterrett, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
for the registrant and have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date: February 25, 2010  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT  

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 a2196642zf9_ex-312.pdf
 EX-31.2

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 a2196642zex-32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

              In connection with the Annual Report of Simon Property Group, Inc. ("Simon Property"), on Form 10-K
for the period ending December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each of the undersigned, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Simon Property.    

/s/ DAVID SIMON  

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer 
February 25, 2010  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 
February 25, 2010  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32   

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 12
 a2196642zf11_ex-32.pdf
 EX-32

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 spg-20091231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 spg-20091231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 spg-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 spg-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 spg-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 spg-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

