<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130228_10-K_edgar_data_1063761_0001047469-13-001862_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>22217111</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>328411</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5096846</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3900907</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8633593</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3635870</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>85</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-13-001862.hdr.sgml : 20130228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130228062420
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-13-001862
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001063761
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				046268599
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14469
		FILM NUMBER:		13648997

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438
		BUSINESS PHONE:		317-636-1600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORPORATE PROPERTY INVESTORS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-13-001862.txt : 20130228

10-K
 1
 a2212760z10-k.htm
 10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document 
   TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012   

   SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act). Yes
    No       

              Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
    No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes
    No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files). Yes     No       

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer      
     
  Smaller reporting company      

(Do not check if a smaller 
reporting company)  

Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12-b of the Act). Yes
    No       

              The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $46,364 million based on the closing sale price on
the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 29, 2012.   

              As
of January 31, 2013, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 313,664,635 and 8,000 shares of common stock and Class B common stock outstanding, respectively.   

Documents Incorporated By Reference     

Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV; and portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement
in connection with its 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.   

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Annual Report on Form 10-K   December 31, 2012        

           TABLE OF CONTENTS            

Item No.    

Page No.    

Part I    

1.   
      
     Business   

3   

1A.   
     
    Risk Factors   

8   

1B.   
     
    Unresolved Staff Comments   

12   

2.   
     
    Properties   

13   

3.   
     
    Legal Proceedings   

45   

4.   
     
    Mine Safety Disclosures   

45   

Part II    

5.   
      
     Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

46   

6.   
     
    Selected Financial Data   

47   

7.   
     
    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

47   

7A.   
     
    Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk   

47   

8.   
     
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

47   

9.   
     
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

47   

9A.   
     
    Controls and Procedures   

47   

9B.   
     
    Other Information   

47   

Part III    

10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

48   

11.   
     
    Executive Compensation   

48   

12.   
     
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

48   

13.   
     
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence   

48   

14.   
     
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

48   

Part IV    

15.   
      
     Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules   

49   

Signatures    

50   

2  

Table of Contents    

Part I            

Item 1.    Business            

Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real
estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code. REITs will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as
they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real
estate properties and other assets. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle centers. As of
December 31, 2012, we owned or held an interest in 317 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 160 malls, 63 Premium Outlets, 68 community/lifestyle centers, 13 Mills and
13 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 38 states and Puerto Rico. We also have reinstituted redevelopment and expansion initiatives with renovation and expansion projects currently underway at
24 properties in the U.S. with 56 new anchor and big box tenants having opened in 2012 and an additional 30 scheduled to open in 2013. Internationally, as of December 31, 2012, we had ownership
interests in eight Premium Outlets in Japan, two Premium Outlets in South Korea, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. Additionally, as of December 31, 2012, we owned a
28.9% equity stake in Kl pierre SA, or Kl pierre, a publicly traded, Paris-based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, more than 260 shopping centers
located in 13 countries in Europe.   

              For
a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2012, see the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" section of the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Other Policies     

              The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect
to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.   

Investment Policies      

While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may also provide secured financing to or invest in equity or debt securities of
other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage ownership limitations and gross income tests
necessary for REIT qualification. These REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75% of our total assets. We must also derive at
least 75% of our gross income directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents from real property," dividends from other REITs and, in
certain circumstances, interest from certain types of temporary investments. In addition, we must also derive at least 95% of our gross income from such real property investments, and from dividends,
interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.   

Subject
to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be
in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire
all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.   

Financing Policies      

Because our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, we regularly access the debt markets to
raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt. We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our
ratio of debt to total assets or market value, as defined. For example, the Operating Partnership's line of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants
that restrict the total amount of debt of the Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related   

  3  

Table of Contents   

  arrangement,
and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements contain other covenants requiring compliance with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may
incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for our equity securities and the debt securities of the Operating Partnership. We strive to maintain investment
grade ratings at all times, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future.   

If
our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital by offering equity or debt securities, creating joint ventures with existing ownership
interests in properties, entering into joint venture arrangements for new development projects, retaining cash flows or a combination of these methods. If the Board of Directors determines to raise
equity capital, it may, without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our
authorized capital in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also
may include additional classes of preferred stock, which may be convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any subsequent offering of our
securities. Any such offering could dilute a stockholder's investment in us.   

              We
expect most future borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the Operating
Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any such indebtedness may be
secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or cross-collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or partially guaranteed by
the Operating Partnership. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly do so.   

              The
Operating Partnership has an unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility's initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion can be increased at our
sole option to $5.0 billion during its term. The Credit Facility will initially mature on October 30, 2015 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. On June 1, 2012, we entered
into an additional unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Supplemental Facility, with an initial borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion which can be increased at our sole option to $2.5 billion
during its term. The Supplemental Facility will initially mature on June 30, 2016 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. We issue debt securities through the Operating
Partnership, but we may issue our debt securities which may be convertible into capital stock or be accompanied by warrants to purchase capital stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease
receivables.   

              We
may also finance acquisitions through the following:  

issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock;   
           issuance of additional units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units;    
           issuance of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;   
           issuance of other securities including unsecured notes and mortgage debt;    
           draws on our credit facilities; or   
           sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties.    

The
Operating Partnership may also issue units to transferors of properties or other partnership interests which may permit the transferor to defer gain recognition for tax purposes.   

              We
do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually limit additional
indebtedness on such properties. Additionally, our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured note indentures and other contracts may limit our ability to borrow and contain limits on mortgage
indebtedness we may incur.   

              Typically,
we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining secured permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage
loan on a single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage lien on the property or properties in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture
with a third party, or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities, which are common in the real
estate industry, are structured so that they would not be consolidated in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a parent   

  4  

Table of Contents   

  company.
We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms then available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For
accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose entities owning consolidated properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness.   

Conflict of Interest Policies      

We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted
governance principles governing the function, conduct, selection, orientation and duties of our Board of Directors and the Company, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of
the Board of Directors. In addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees and those of our subsidiaries. At least a majority of
the members of our Board of Directors must qualify as independent under the listing standards for New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, companies and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family who are
significant stockholders and/or unitholders in the Operating Partnership. In addition, the Audit and Compensation Committees of our Board of Directors are comprised of independent members in
accordance with the independence requirements of the NYSE. Any transaction between us and the Simons, including property acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space
leases, must be approved by a majority of our independent directors.   

The
sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons and/or other limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order to
avoid any conflict of interest between Simon Property and the Simons, our charter requires that at least six of our independent directors must authorize and require the Operating Partnership to sell
any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by Herbert Simon and David Simon contain covenants limiting their ability
to participate in certain shopping center activities.   

Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities      

We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT, unless the Board of Directors determines that it
is no longer in our best interests to so qualify as a REIT. The Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have
authority to offer shares of our capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may
issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us
from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we participate. Additionally, we may make or buy interests in loans for
real estate properties owned by others.   

    Competition     

              The retail industry is dynamic and competitive. We compete with numerous merchandise distribution channels including malls, outlet
centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. We also compete with internet retailing sites and catalogs which provide retailers with distribution
options beyond existing brick and mortar retail properties. The existence of competitive alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents we
can obtain. This results in competition for both the tenants to occupy the properties that we develop and manage as well as for the acquisition of prime sites (including land for development and
operating properties). We believe that there are numerous factors that make our properties highly desirable to retailers including:  

the quality, location and diversity of our properties;   
           our management and operational expertise;   
           our extensive experience and relationships with retailers and lenders; and    
           our mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances.    
 
  5  

Table of Contents   

    Certain Activities     

              During the past three years, we have:  

issued 7,627,368 shares of common stock upon the exchange of 8,279,993 units of the Operating Partnership;    
           issued 347,677 restricted shares of common stock and 1,470,679 long-term incentive performance units, or LTIP units, net of
forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 1998 Plan;   
           redeemed 2,000,000 units for $124.00 per unit in cash;   
           issued 278,763 units in exchange for the acquisition of a 100% interest in two outlet properties;    
           issued 427,146 shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options under the 1998 Plan, net of 76,969 shares used to fund
withholding tax;   
           issued 6,670,589 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 7,871,276 shares of Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual
Preferred Stock, or Series I preferred stock;   
           redeemed 219,879 shares of Series I preferred stock;   
           issued 9,137,500 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $137.00 per share;    
           entered into the Credit Facility in October 2011 which provides an initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion and can be
increased at our sole option to $5.0 billion during its term;   
           entered into the new Supplemental Facility on June 1, 2012, which provides an initial borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion
and can be increased at our sole option to $2.5 billion during its term;   
           borrowed a maximum amount of $3.1 billion under the credit facilities; the outstanding amount of borrowings under the
credit facilities as of December 31, 2012 was $1.6 billion, of which $1.2 billion was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro-denominated borrowings and $259.2 million was related to U.S. dollar
equivalent of Yen-denominated borrowings;   
           provided annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and
quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders.    

Employees     

              At December 31, 2012, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,500 persons at various properties and offices throughout the
United States, of which approximately 2,100 were part-time. Approximately 1,000 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana and 100 were located at our
Premium Outlets offices in Roseland, New Jersey.   

    Corporate Headquarters     

              Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is (317)
636-1600.   

    Available Information     

              We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are
required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information" section of our
Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected
thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

The
following corporate governance documents are also available through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance" section of our Internet website or may be obtained in
print form by request of our   

  6  

Table of Contents   

  Investor
Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, and
Executive Committee Charter.   

              In
addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the SEC and the NYSE.   

Executive Officers of the Registrant     

              The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of December 31, 2012.   

Name

Age    
     
   Position    

David Simon  

51  
     
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard S. Sokolov  

63  
     
      President and Chief Operating Officer  

David J. Contis  

54  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President   President Simon Malls  

Stephen E. Sterrett  

57  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

John Rulli  

56  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer  

James M. Barkley  

61  
     
      General Counsel; Secretary  

Andrew A. Juster  

60  
     
      Executive Vice President and Treasurer  

Steven E. Fivel  

52  
     
      Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary  

Steven K. Broadwater  

46  
     
      Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  

The
executive officers of Simon Property serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors except for David Simon and Richard S. Sokolov who are subject to employment agreements which may
call for certain payments upon termination. For biographical information of David Simon, Richard S. Sokolov, Stephen E. Sterrett, James M. Barkley and David J. Contis, see Item 10 of this report.   

Mr.
Rulli serves as Simon Property's Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Rulli joined Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, in 1988
and held various positions with MSA and Simon Property thereafter. Mr. Rulli became Chief Administrative Officer in 2007 and was promoted to Senior Executive Vice President in 2011.   

              Mr.
Juster serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. Juster joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has
held various positions with Simon Property. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008.   

Mr.
Fivel serves as Simon Property's Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to rejoining Simon in 2011, Mr. Fivel served in a similar capacity with a large public
registrant. Mr. Fivel was previously with Simon Property from 1993 to 1997.   

              Mr.
Broadwater serves as Simon Property's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and prior to that as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Broadwater joined Simon
Property in 2004 and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.   

  7  

Table of Contents    

Item 1A.    Risk Factors            

The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in
forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which are currently not believed to be
material may also affect our actual results. We may update these factors in our future periodic reports.   

    Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets     

We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.      

As of December 31, 2012, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding related premium and discount, totaled $23.1
billion. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our debt service
costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property. Should such
events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the
property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.   

Disruption in the credit markets or downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our ability to access external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service
requirements.      

We depend on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet
ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. We cannot assure you
that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.   

Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.      

Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The
credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and
the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund
our growth, adverse changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.   

Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.      

We selectively manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or
cap a portion of our variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be
successful.   

              Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging
agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.   

    Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations     

We face risks associated with the acquisition, development, redevelopment and expansion of properties.      

We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, and these activities are subject to
various risks. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/   

  8  

Table of Contents   

  expansion
opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not perform as well as expected. We are subject to other risks in connection with any
acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following:  

construction costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;    
           we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance loans on favorable terms, if at all;    
           we may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;    
           occupancy rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and    
           we may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those
consents may be withheld.    

If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.   

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.      

Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a
result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions may be limited. If we want to sell a property, we
cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment.   

Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.      

As of December 31, 2012, we hold interests in joint venture properties that operate in Japan, South Korea, Mexico, and Malaysia. We
also have an equity stake in Kl pierre, a publicly-traded European real estate company. Accordingly, our operating results and the value of our international operations may be impacted
by any unhedged movements in the foreign currencies in which those operations transact and in which our net investment in the foreign operation is held. We may pursue additional expansion and
development opportunities outside the United States. International development and ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations.
These risks include:  

adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;   
           changes in foreign political and economic environments, regionally, nationally, and locally;    
           challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and
litigation;   
           differing lending practices;   
           differences in cultures;   
           changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;    
           difficulties in managing international operations; and   
           obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.    

Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented approximately 6.3% of net operating income, or NOI,
for the year ended December 31, 2012), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.   

  9  

Table of Contents   

    Environmental Risks     

As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.      

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous
owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose
liability regardless of whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or
removal of asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the
air. Those laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain,
or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs
of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The
presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.   

Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.      

Although we believe that our portfolio is in substantial compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These
environmental audits have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
However, we cannot assure you that:  

existing environmental studies with respect to the portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities;    
           any previous owner, occupant or tenant of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;    
           the current environmental condition of the portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of
nearby properties, or by other unrelated third parties; or   
           future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the
interpretation thereof) will not result in environmental liabilities.    

Retail Operations Risks     

Overall economic conditions may adversely affect the general retail environment.      

Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally,
including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, increasing use of the
internet by retailers and consumers, consumer confidence, casualties and other natural disasters, and the potential for terrorist activities. The economy and consumer spending appear to be recovering
from the effects of the recent recession. We derive our cash flow from operations primarily from retail tenants, many of whom have been and continue to be under some degree of economic stress. A
significant deterioration in our cash flow from operations could require us to curtail planned capital expenditures or seek alternative sources of financing.   

We may not be able to lease newly developed properties and renew leases and relet space at existing properties.      

We may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections.
Also, when leases for our existing properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than
the current lease terms. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected. Changes in economic and
operating conditions that occur subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other assets could impact the assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future
charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.   

  10  

Table of Contents   

Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these
tenants.      

Malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our properties
could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store and larger
store, also referred to as "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We do not control the disposition of
those department stores or larger stores that we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms
of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or
expense recovery charges. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our
properties were to decline significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of
default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties.   

We face potential adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies.      

Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur regularly in the course of our operations. We continually seek to re-lease vacant spaces
resulting from tenant terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant bankruptcies
could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy.   

We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.      

Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retailing such as catalogs and e-commerce websites. Competition
may come from malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers, both existing as well as future development projects, as well as catalogs and e-commerce. The presence of
competitive alternatives affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. New construction, renovations and expansions at competing sites could also negatively affect our
properties.   

              We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified
management.   

    Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties     

We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance
them.      

As of December 31, 2012, we owned interests in 108 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 18 properties are included
in our consolidated financial statements. We account for the other 90 properties under the equity method of accounting, which we refer to as joint venture properties. We serve as general partner or
property manager for 74 of these 90 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as approving the operating budget and selling, refinancing and redeveloping the properties require the consent of
the other owners. Of the properties for which we do not serve as general partner or property manager, 12 are in our international joint ventures. The other owners also have other participating rights
that we consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties are managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely
affect our ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.   

The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint venture properties.      

Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property. As of
December 31, 2012, the Operating Partnership had guaranteed $84.9 million of joint venture related mortgage or other indebtedness. A default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us
to liability under a guaranty or letter of credit. We may elect to fund cash needs of a joint venture through equity contributions (generally on a basis proportionate to our ownership interests),
advances or partner loans, although such fundings are not required contractually or otherwise.   

  11  

Table of Contents   

    Other Factors Affecting Our Business     

Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.      

We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third
party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies or other financial arrangements controlled by us. A third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence
of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through our captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property
insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue it could generate.   

We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The current
federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate could
adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

Risks Relating to Income Taxes     

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT in the United States and certain of our international operations currently receive favorable tax treatment.      

We are subject to certain income-based taxes, both domestically and internationally, and other taxes, including state and local taxes,
franchise taxes, and withholding taxes on dividends from certain of our international investments. We currently receive favorable tax treatment in various domestic and international jurisdictions
through tax rules and regulations or through international treaties. Should we no longer receive such benefits, the amount of taxes we pay may increase.   

In
the U.S., we have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner which allows
us to qualify for taxation as a REIT
under the Internal Revenue Code. We intend to continue to operate in this manner. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating
results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. REIT qualification is governed by highly
technical and complex provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a
manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.   

If
we fail to comply with those provisions, we may be subject to monetary penalties or ultimately to possible disqualification as a REIT. If such events occurs, and if available relief
provisions do not apply:  

we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;    
           we will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income
at regular corporate rates; and   
           unless entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for
the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.     

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments            

              None.   

  12  

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    Properties            

United States Properties      

Our U.S. properties primarily consist of malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, community/lifestyle centers, and other properties. These
properties contain an aggregate of approximately 239.2 million square feet of gross leasable area, or GLA, of which we own approximately 152.9 million square feet.   

              Malls
typically contain at least one traditional department store anchor or a combination of anchors and big box retailers with a wide variety of smaller stores connecting the anchors.
Additional stores are usually located along the perimeter of the parking area. Our 160 malls are generally enclosed centers and range in size from approximately 400,000 to 2.5 million square feet of
GLA. Our malls contain in the aggregate more than 17,100 occupied stores, including approximately 680 anchors, which are predominately national retailers.   

              Premium
Outlets generally contain a wide variety of designer and manufacturer stores located in open-air centers. Our 63 Premium Outlets range in size from approximately 150,000 to
850,000 square feet of GLA. The Premium Outlets are generally located near major metropolitan areas and/or tourist destinations.   

              The
Mills generally range in size from 1.0 million to 2.2 million square feet of GLA and are located in major metropolitan areas. They have a combination of traditional mall, outlet
center, and big box retailers and entertainment uses.   

Community/lifestyle
centers are generally unenclosed and smaller than our malls. Our 68 community/lifestyle centers generally range in size from approximately 100,000 to 950,000 square
feet of GLA. Community/lifestyle centers are designed to serve a larger trade area and typically contain anchor stores and other national retail tenants, which occupy a significant portion of the GLA
of the center. We also own traditional community shopping centers that focus primarily on value-oriented and convenience goods and services. These centers are usually anchored by a supermarket,
discount retailer, or drugstore and are designed to service a neighborhood area. Finally, we own open-air centers adjacent to our malls designed to take advantage of the drawing power of the mall.   

We
also have interests in 13 other shopping centers or outlet centers. These properties range in size from approximately 85,000 to 1.1 million square feet of GLA, are considered
non-core to our business model, and in total represent less than 1% of our total operating income before depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2012, approximately 95.3% of the owned GLA in malls and Premium Outlets and the retail space of the other properties was leased, approximately 97.2% of the owned GLA
for The Mills was leased and approximately 94.7% of the owned GLA in the community/lifestyle centers was leased.   

We
wholly own 221 of our properties, effectively control 18 properties in which we have a joint venture interest, and hold the remaining 78 properties through unconsolidated joint
venture interests. We are the managing or co-managing general partner or member of 313 properties. Certain of our joint venture properties are subject to various rights of first refusal, buy-sell
provisions, put and call rights, or other sale or marketing rights for partners which are customary in real estate partnership agreements and the industry. We and our partners in these joint ventures
may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions) which may result in either the sale of our interest or the use of available cash or borrowings, or the use of
Operating Partnership units, to acquire the joint venture interest from our partner.   

The
following property table summarizes certain data for our malls and Premium Outlets, The Mills, and community/lifestyle centers located in the United States, including Puerto Rico,
as of December 31, 2012.   

  13  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

14  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

15  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

16  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

17  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

18  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

19  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

20  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

Premium Outlets    

1.  
     
   Albertville Premium Outlets  
     
   MN  
     
   Albertville (Minneapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.9%  

429,564  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger,
Under Armour  

2.  
     
   Allen Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Allen (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.8%  

441,718  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo
Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

3.  
     
   Aurora Farms Premium Outlets  
     
   OH  
     
   Aurora (Cleveland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.8%  

290,520  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

4.  
     
   Birch Run Premium Outlets  
     
   MI  
     
   Birch Run (Detroit)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

91.6%  

678,219  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, J.Crew, Lacoste, Nike, The North Face, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Tommy Hilfiger  

5.  
     
   Calhoun Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Calhoun  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

90.9%  

254,052  
     
   Ann Taylor, Carter's, Coach, Gap Outlet, Gymboree, Jones New York, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

6.  
     
   Camarillo Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Camarillo (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.6%  

674,099  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Diesel, Forever 21, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
Sony, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch  

7.  
     
   Carlsbad Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Carlsbad (San Diego)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

288,384  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo,
Theory  

8.  
     
   Carolina Premium Outlets  
     
   NC  
     
   Smithfield (Raleigh)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.5%  

439,009  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

9.  
     
   Chicago Premium Outlets  
     
   IL  
     
   Aurora (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2004  

99.4%  

437,332  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Diesel, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Giorgio Armani, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren,
Salvatore Ferragamo, Sony, Theory  

10.  
     
   Cincinnati Premium Outlets  
     
   OH  
     
   Monroe (Cincinnati)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2009  

100.0%  

398,869  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, The
North Face  

11.  
     
   Clinton Crossing Premium Outlets  
     
   CT  
     
   Clinton  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

276,153  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots,
Tommy Hilfiger  

12.  
     
   Columbia Gorge Premium Outlets  
     
   OR  
     
   Troutdale (Portland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

93.2%  

163,693  
     
   Adidas, Calvin Klein, Carter's, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Gymboree, Levi's, Samsonite, Tommy Hilfiger  

21  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

13.  
     
   Desert Hills Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Cabazon (Palm Springs)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.6%  

501,600  
     
   Burberry, Coach, Dior, Elie Tahari, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tory Burch,
True Religion, Yves Saint Laurent, Zegna  

14.  
     
   Edinburgh Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Edinburgh (Indianapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

377,802  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, DKNY, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, White House Black Market  

15.  
     
   Ellenton Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Ellenton (Tampa)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.6%  

476,714  
     
   Ann Taylor, Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Movado, Nike, Puma, Saks Fifth
Avenue Off 5th  

16.  
     
   Folsom Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Folsom (Sacramento)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.6%  

298,071  
     
   BCBG Max Azria, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Forever 21, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Loft Outlet, Nautica, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
Tommy Hilfiger  

17.  
     
   Gaffney Premium Outlets  
     
   SC  
     
   Gaffney (Greenville/Charlotte)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

94.1%  

359,734  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren  

18.  
     
   Gilroy Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Gilroy (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.4%  

577,856  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Elie Tahari, Forever 21, J.Crew, Hugo Boss, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony,
Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion  

19.  
     
   Grand Prairie Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Grand Prairie (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2012  

100.0%  

417,423  
     
   Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Hugo Boss, Kate Spade New York, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger,
 Vince Camuto  

20.  
     
   Grove City Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Grove City (Pittsburgh)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.9%  

531,721  
     
   American Eagle, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Under Armour, Vera Bradley  

21.  
     
   Gulfport Premium Outlets  
     
   MS  
     
   Gulfport  
     
   Ground Lease (2059)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.4%  

299,604  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Jones New York, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

22.  
     
   Hagerstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Hagerstown (Baltimore/Washington DC)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.2%  

484,968  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Lee Jeans, Nike, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

23.  
     
   Houston Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Cypress (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2008  

100.0%  

541,576  
     
   Ann Taylor, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth
Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch  

24.  
     
   Jackson Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Jackson (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.1%  

285,673  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger,
Under Armour  

25.  
     
   Jersey Shore Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Tinton Falls (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2008  

100.0%  

434,474  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Brooks Brothers, Coach, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Guess, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger,
True Religion, Under Armour  

26.  
     
   Johnson Creek Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Johnson Creek  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

93.6%  

276,373  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Columbia Sportswear, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

27.  
     
   Kittery Premium Outlets  
     
   ME  
     
   Kittery  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2014)(7)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.3%  

264,951  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Chico's, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

22  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

28.  
     
   Las Americas Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   San Diego  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

99.6%  

554,966  
     
   Aeropostale, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Sony, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger,
True Religion  

29.  
     
   Las Vegas Premium Outlets   North  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2003  

99.8%  

538,689  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Coach, David Yurman, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Elie Tahari, Etro, Hugo Boss, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren,
Salvatore Ferragamo, St. John, TAG Heuer, Ted Baker, True Religion  

30.  
     
   Las Vegas Premium Outlets   South  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.0%  

535,466  
     
   Adidas, Aeropostale, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Bose, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Kenneth Cole, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok,
Tommy Hilfiger  

31.  
     
   Lebanon Premium Outlets  
     
   TN  
     
   Lebanon (Nashville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

94.2%  

226,961  
     
   Aeropostale, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Samsonite, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen  

32.  
     
   Lee Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Lee  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.8%  

224,587  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Chico's, Coach, Cole Haan, J.Crew, Lacoste, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger,
Under Armour  

33.  
     
   Leesburg Corner Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Leesburg (Washington D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.1%  

518,003  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Coach, Diesel, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, Juicy Couture, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
Under Armour, Vera Bradley, Williams-Sonoma  

34.  
     
   Liberty Village Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Flemington (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

77.5%  

164,698  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, G.H. Bass   Co., J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen,
Zales Outlet  

35.  
     
   Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Michigan City  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.7%  

454,566  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren,
Tommy Hilfiger  

36.  
     
   Livermore Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Livermore (San Francisco)  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2021)(10)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2012  

100.0%  

511,811  
     
   Armani, Barneys New York, Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Coach, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Kate Spade New York, J.Crew, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, MaxMara, Michael Kors, Prada, Saks Fifth
Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

37.  
     
   Merrimack Premium Outlets  
     
   NH  
     
   Merrimack  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2012  

98.4%  

409,081  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Factory Store, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth
Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, White House Black Market  

38.  
     
   Napa Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Napa  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.2%  

179,288  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Nautica, Tommy Hilfiger  

39.  
     
   North Bend Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   North Bend (Seattle)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.4%  

223,561  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Carter's, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, G.H. Bass   Co., Izod, Nike, Nine West, PacSun, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, Van Heusen,
VF Outlet  

23  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

40.  
     
   North Georgia Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Dawsonville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.0%  

540,275  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth
Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Williams-Sonoma  

41.  
     
   Orlando Premium Outlets   International Dr  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

100.0%  

773,409  
     
   7 For All Mankind, Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Escada, Forever 21, J.Crew, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Michael Kors, The North Face, Polo
Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Victoria's Secret  

42.  
     
   Orlando Premium Outlets   Vineland Ave  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

549,651  
     
   Adidas, A/X Armani Exchange, Brunello Cucinelli, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Lacoste, Marni, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo
Ralph Lauren, Roberto Cavalli, Salvatore Ferragamo, TAG Heuer, Theory, Tod's, Tory Burch, Vera Bradley  

43.  
     
   Osage Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   MO  
     
   Osage Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

90.9%  

392,711  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

44.  
     
   Petaluma Village Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Petaluma (San Francisco)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

94.8%  

195,738  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, Nike, Puma, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

45.  
     
   Philadelphia Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Limerick (Philadelphia)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2007  

98.9%  

549,137  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo
Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Sony, Vera Bradley  

46.  
     
   Pismo Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Pismo Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.2%  

147,416  
     
   Aeropostale, Calvin Klein, Carter's, Coach, G.H. Bass   Co., Guess, Jones New York, Levi's, Nike, Nine West, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen  

47.  
     
   Pleasant Prairie Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Pleasant Prairie (Chicago, IL   Milwaukee)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.4%  

402,399  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Sony, St. John,
Under Armour  

48.  
     
   Puerto Rico Premium Outlets  
     
   PR  
     
   Barceloneta  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

94.8%  

344,902  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Nine West, Polo
Ralph Lauren, Puma, Tommy Hilfiger  

49.  
     
   Queenstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Queenstown (Baltimore)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

100.0%  

289,305  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia sportswear, Gucci, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Kate Spade New York, Loft Outlet, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren,
Talbots  

24  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

50.  
     
   Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Mercedes (McAllen)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2006  

97.1%  

604,105  
     
   Adidas, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo
Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, VF Outlet  

51.  
     
   Round Rock Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Round Rock (Austin)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2006  

97.7%  

488,660  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger  

52.  
     
   San Marcos Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   San Marcos (Austin   San Antonio)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.1%  

731,134  
     
   Banana Republic, Cole Haan, Diane Von Furstenberg, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Kate Spade, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Michael Kors, Pottery Barn, Prada,
Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tommy Bahama, Ugg, Victoria's Secret  

53.  
     
   Seattle Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   Tulalip (Seattle)  
     
   Ground Lease (2079)  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2005  

100.0%  

451,073  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Sony, Tommy Bahama,
Tommy Hilfiger  

54.  
     
   Silver Sands Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Destin  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2012  

93.1%  

451,069  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Dooney   Bourke, J.Crew, Kenneth Cole, Michael Kors, Movado, Nautica, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
Tommy Hilfiger  

55.  
     
   St. Augustine Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   St. Augustine (Jacksonville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.1%  

328,570  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

56.  
     
   Tanger Outlets   Galveston/Houston(1)  
     
   TX  
     
   Texas City (Galveston)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Built 2012  

92.7%  

352,705  
     
   Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Factory Store, J. Crew, Kenneth Cole, Michael Kors, Nike, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, White House Black Market  

57.  
     
   The Crossings Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Tannersville  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2019)(7)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.4%  

411,216  
     
   American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger,
Under Armour  

58.  
     
   Vacaville Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Vacaville  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

437,220  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gucci, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Tommy Bahama,
Tommy Hilfiger  

59.  
     
   Waikele Premium Outlets  
     
   HI  
     
   Waipahu (Honolulu)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

209,732  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion,
Zales Outlet  

60.  
     
   Waterloo Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Waterloo  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.0%  

417,734  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, VF Outlet  

61.  
     
   Williamsburg Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Williamsburg  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.2%  

521,879  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Coach, Cole Haan, Dooney   Bourke, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, The
North Face  

62.  
     
   Woodbury Common Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Central Valley (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.4%  

847,650  
     
   Banana Republic, Burberry, Chloe, Coach, Dior, Dolce   Gabbana, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Oscar de la Renta, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada,
Reed Krakoff, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tom Ford, Tory Burch, Valentino, Versace, Yves St. Laurent  

63.  
     
   Wrentham Village Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Wrentham (Boston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

660,096  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Lacoste, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks
Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Sony, Williams-Sonoma, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch, True Religion, Under Armour  

Total U.S. Premium Outlets GLA   

26,539,615   

25  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

26  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

27  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

28  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

29  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

Mills Properties    

The Mills     

1.  
     
   Arizona Mills  
     
   AZ  
     
   Tempe (Phoenix)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.2%  

1,240,153  
     
   Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Burlington Coat Factory, Sears Appliance Outlet, Gameworks, Sports Authority, Ross Dress for Less, JCPenney Outlet, Group USA, Harkins
Cinemas   IMAX, Sea Life Center, Conn's(6)  

2.  
     
   Arundel Mills  
     
   MD  
     
   Hanover (Baltimore)  
     
   Fee  

59.3  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.9%  

1,560,309  
     
   Bass Pro Shops, Bed Bath   Beyond, Best Buy, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Dave   Buster's, F.Y.E., H M, Medieval Times, Modell's, Last Call by Neiman Marcus,
Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, T.J. Maxx, Cinemark Egyptian 24 Theatres, Maryland Live! Casino  

3.  
     
   Colorado Mills  
     
   CO  
     
   Lakewood (Denver)  
     
   Fee  

37.5  
  %(4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

91.6%  

1,097,411  
     
   Eddie Bauer Outlet, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sports Authority, Super Target, United Artists Theatre, Burlington Coat
Factory  

4.  
     
   Concord Mills  
     
   NC  
     
   Concord (Charlotte)  
     
   Fee  

59.3  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.9%  

1,333,858  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, The Children's Place Outlet, Dave   Buster's, Nike Factory Store, T.J. Maxx, Group USA,
Sun   Ski, VF Outlet, Off Broadway Shoes, Bed Bath   Beyond, NASCAR Speedpark, AMC Theatres, Best Buy, Forever 21  

5.  
     
   Grapevine Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Grapevine (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

59.3  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.4%  

1,777,175  
     
   Bed Bath   Beyond, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Group USA, JCPenney Outlet, Marshalls, Nike Factory Store, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, AMC Theatres, Dr. Pepper Star
Center, Sun   Ski Sports, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Sears Appliance Outlet, Bass Pro Outdoor World, Off Broadway Shoes, VF Outlet, Legoland Discovery Center, Sea Life Center, Ross Dress for Less, H M  

6.  
     
   Great Mall  
     
   CA  
     
   Milpitas (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

97.4%  

1,361,236  
     
   Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Sports Authority, Group USA, Kohl's, Dave   Busters, Sears Appliance Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Nike Factory Store,
Century Theatres, Bed Bath   Beyond, Off Broadway Shoes  

7.  
     
   Gurnee Mills  
     
   IL  
     
   Gurnee (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

97.5%  

1,782,245  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath   Beyond/Buy Buy Baby, Burlington Coat Factory, Kohl's, Marshalls Home Goods, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Rinkside, Sears Grand, Sports Authority,
T.J. Maxx, VF Outlet, Marcus Cinemas, Last Call by NeimanMarcus, Value City Furniture, Shoppers World, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Macy's(6)  

30  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

8.  
     
   Katy Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Katy (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

62.5  
  %(4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

94.9%  

1,559,488  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath and Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike Factory Store, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sun  
Ski Sports, AMC Theatres, Off Broadway Shoes, Tilt  

9.  
     
   Ontario Mills  
     
   CA  
     
   Ontario (Riverside)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.7%  

1,472,739  
     
   Burlington Coat Factory, Nike Factory Store, Gameworks, The Children's Place Outlet, Marshalls, JCPenney Outlet, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Bed Bath   Beyond, Nordstrom Rack, Dave  
Busters, Group USA, Sam Ash Music, Off Broadway Shoes, AMC Theatres, Sports Authority, Forever 21, Last Call by Neiman Marcus  

10.  
     
   Opry Mills  
     
   TN  
     
   Nashville  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

94.0%  

1,153,230  
     
   Regal Cinema   IMAX, Dave   Busters, VF Outlet, Sun   Ski, Bass Pro Shops, Forever 21, Bed Bath   Beyond, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Off Broadway
Shoes  

11.  
     
   Outlets at Orange, The  
     
   CA  
     
   Orange (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.4%  

757,052  
     
   Dave   Buster's, Vans Skatepark, Lucky Strike Lanes, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, AMC Theatres, Nike Factory Store, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoes, Nordstrom Rack,
 Sports Authority, H M, Forever 21  

12.  
     
   Potomac Mills  
     
   VA  
     
   Woodbridge (Washington, D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

93.0%  

1,498,007  
     
   Group USA, Marshalls, T.J. Maxx, Sears Appliance Outlet, JCPenney, Burlington Coat Factory, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Nordstrom Rack, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th Outlet, Costco Warehouse, The
Children's Place, AMC Theatres, Modell's Sporting Goods, Books-A-Million, H M, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, XXI Forever, Bloomingdale's Outlet, Buy Buy Baby(6), Christmas Tree Shops(6)  

13.  
     
   Sawgrass Mills  
     
   FL  
     
   Sunrise (Miami)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

98.1%  

2,220,162  
     
   American Signature Home, Beall's Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Brandsmart USA, Burlington Coat Factory, Gameworks, JCPenney Outlet Store, Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike Factory Store,
Nordstrom Rack, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Ron Jon Surf Shop, Sports Authority, Super Target, T.J. Maxx, VF Factory Outlet, F.Y.E., Off Broadway Shoes, Regal Cinema, Bloomingdale's Outlet,
Forever 21  

Total Mills Properties   

18,813,065   

31  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

32  

Table of Contents   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    This
property is managed by a third party.
      (2)    Our
direct and indirect interests in some of the properties held as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on distributions in favor of other
partners or us.
      (3)    The
date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option available to the operating entity under the ground lease. In a majority of the ground
leases, we have a right to purchase the lessor's interest under an option, right of first refusal or other provision. Unless otherwise indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at
least 50% of its respective property.
      (4)    Joint
venture properties accounted for under the equity method.
      (5)    Malls  
Executed leases for all company-owned GLA in mall stores, excluding majors and anchors. Premium Outlets Community/Lifestyle
Centers and The Mills   Executed leases for all company-owned GLA (or total center GLA).
      (6)    Indicates
anchor or major that is currently under development.
      (7)    Indicates
ground lease covers less than 50% of the acreage of this property.
      (8)    Indicates
vacant anchor space(s).
      (9)    The
lease at the Mall at Chestnut Hill includes the entire premises including land and building.
      (10)    Indicates
ground lease covers outparcel only.
      (11)    Indicates
vacant anchor owned by another company, but we still collect rent and/or fees under an agreement.
      (12)    We
receive substantially all the economic benefit of the property due to a preference or advance.
      (13)    Outside
partner receives substantially all of the economic benefit due to a partner preference.
      (14)    We
own a mortgage note that encumbers Pheasant Lane Mall that entitles us to 100% of the economics of this property.
      (15)    Our
indirect ownership interest is through an approximately 76% ownership interest in Kravco Simon Investments.
      (16)    Mall  
Freestanding GLA includes office space. Centers with more than 20,000 square feet of office space are listed below:    

(17)    Our
interest in the property was sold effective January 3, 2013.
      (18)    Includes
office space at Clay Terrace of 75,118 sq. ft.
      (19)    TMLP
properties include Franklin Mills, The Esplanade, The Galleria at White Plains, Hilltop Mall, Liberty Plaza, Marley Station, Northpark Mall and
Sugarloaf Mills.    
  33  

Table of Contents    

United States Lease Expirations      

The following table summarizes lease expiration data for our malls and Premium Outlets located in the United States, including Puerto
Rico, as of December 31, 2012. The data presented does not consider the impact of renewal options that may be contained in leases.   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   U.S. Lease Expirations   Malls and Premium Outlets   As of December 31, 2012            

(1)    Annual
rental revenues represent 2012 consolidated and joint venture combined base rental revenue.    

34  

Table of Contents    

    International Properties     

              Our ownership interests in properties outside the United States are primarily owned through joint venture arrangements.   

European Investments      

On March 14, 2012, we acquired a 28.7% interest in Kl pierre for approximately $2.0 billion. At December 31, 2012 we
owned 57,634,148 shares, or approximately 28.9%, of Kl pierre, which had a quoted market price of $39.67 per share. Kl pierre is a publicly traded, Paris-based real
estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, more than 260 shopping centers located in 13 countries in Europe.   

              We
own a 13.3% interest in Value Retail PLC, which owns and operates nine luxury outlets throughout Europe. We also have a minority direct ownership in three of those outlets.   

Other International Investments      

We also hold a 40% interest in eight operating real estate joint venture properties in Japan, a 50% interest in two operating joint
venture properties in South Korea, a 50% interest in one operating joint venture property in Mexico, and a 50% interest in one operating joint venture property in Malaysia. The eight Japanese Premium
Outlets operate in various cities throughout Japan and comprise over 2.8 million square feet of GLA. These properties were 99.5% leased as of December 31, 2012.   

The
following property table summarizes certain data for our properties located in Japan, South Korea, Mexico, and Malaysia at December 31, 2012.   

  35  

Table of Contents    

   Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Properties     

COUNTRY/Property Name    
     
   City (Metropolitan area)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest    
     
   SPG 
Effective 
Ownership    
     
   Year 
Built    
     
   Total Gross 
Leasable Area(1)    
     
   Retail Anchors and 
Major Tenants    

JAPAN   

1.  
     
  Ami Premium Outlets  
     
  Ami (Tokyo)  
     
  Fee  

40.0  
  %  
  2009  

315,000  
     
  Adidas, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Gap Outlet, Laundry, McGregor, MK Michel Klein, Tommy, Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren  

2.  
     
  Gotemba Premium Outlets  
     
  Gotemba City (Tokyo)  
     
  Fee  

40.0  
  %  
  2000  

481,500  
     
  Armani, Balenciaga, Bally, Beams, Bottega Veneta, Burberry, Coach, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Dunhill, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Jill Stuart, Loro Piana, Miu Miu, Moschino, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Salvatore
Ferragamo, Tod's  

3.  
     
  Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets  
     
  Hyougo-ken (Osaka)  
     
  Ground Lease (2026)  

40.0  
  %  
  2007  

441,000  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Bally, Banana Republic, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Etro, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Harrod's, Helmut Lang, Hugo Boss, Loro Piana, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tommy
Hilfiger, Valentino  

4.  
     
  Rinku Premium Outlets  
     
  Izumisano (Osaka)  
     
  Ground Lease (2020)  

40.0  
  %  
  2000  

419,000  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Bally, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Dunhill, Eddie Bauer, Etro, Furla, Gap Outlet, Hugo Boss, Kate Spade, Lacoste, Lanvin Collection, Nike,
Polo Ralph Lauren  

5.  
     
  Sano Premium Outlets  
     
  Sano (Tokyo)  
     
  Ground Lease (2022)  

40.0  
  %  
  2003  

390,800  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cynthia Rowley, Diesel, Dunhill, Eddie Bauer, Escada, Etro, Furla, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Harrod's, Kate Spade, Lanvin Collection, Miu Miu, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren  

6.  
     
  Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets  
     
  Izumi Park Town (Sendai)  
     
  Ground Lease (2027)  

40.0  
  %  
  2008  

164,200  
     
  Adidas, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Jill Stuart, Laundry, Levi's, Pleats Please Issey Miyake, Ray-Ban, Tasaki, Taylor Made  

7.  
     
  Toki Premium Outlets  
     
  Toki (Nagoya)  
     
  Ground Lease (2024)  

40.0  
  %  
  2005  

289,500  
     
  Adidas, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Diesel, Eddie Bauer, Furla, Gap Outlet, Laundry, MK Michel Klein, Nike, Olive des Olive, Polo Ralph Lauren, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger  

8.  
     
  Tosu Premium Outlets  
     
  Fukuoka (Kyushu)  
     
  Ground Lease (2023)  

40.0  
  %  
  2004  

290,600  
     
  Adidas, Armani, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Bose, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Courreges, Dolce   Gabbana, Furla, Gap Outlet, Miki House, Nike, Quiksilver, Reebok, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger  

Subtotal Japan   

2,791,600   

36  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Properties     

COUNTRY/Property Name    
     
   City (Metropolitan area)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest    
     
   SPG 
Effective 
Ownership    
     
   Year 
Built    
     
   Total Gross 
Leasable Area(1)    
     
   Retail Anchors and 
Major Tenants    

MEXICO   

9.  
     
  Punta Norte Premium Outlets  
     
  Mexico City  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2004  

278,000  
     
  Adidas, Calvin Klein, CH Carolina Herrera, Coach, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Levi's, MaxMara, Nautica, Nike, Palacio Outlet, Reebok, Rockport, Salvatore Ferragamo, Swarovski, Zegna  

Subtotal Mexico   

278,000   

SOUTH KOREA   

10.  
     
  Yeoju Premium Outlets  
     
  Yeoju (Seoul)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2007  

276,200  
     
  Adidas, Giorgio Armani, Bally, Burberry, Chloe, Coach, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Escada, Fendi, Furla, Gucci, Lacoste, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tod's,
Valentino, Vivienne Westwood  

11.  
     
  Paju Premium Outlets  
     
  Paju (Seoul)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2011  

339,400  
     
  Armani, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Elie Tabari, Escada, Jill Stuart, Lacoste, Lanvin Collection, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tory Burch, Vivienne Westwood  

Subtotal South Korea   

615,600   

MALAYSIA   

12.  
     
  Johor Premium Outlets  
     
  Johor (Singapore)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2011  

190,400  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Canali, Coach, DKNY, Gap, Guess, Lacoste, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nike, Salvatore Ferragamo, Timberland, Zegna  

Subtotal Malaysia   

190,400   

TOTAL INTERNATIONAL ASSETS   

3,875,600   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    All
gross leasable area listed in square feet.    

37  

Table of Contents    

Land      

We have direct or indirect ownership interests in approximately 425 acres of land held in the United States for future development.   

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency      

We focus on energy efficiency as a core sustainability strategy. Through the continued use of energy conservation practices, energy
efficiency projects, and continuous monitoring and reporting, we have reduced our energy consumption at comparable properties every year since 2003. As a result, excluding new developments and
expansions, we reduced the electricity usage over which we have direct control by 374 million kWhs since 2003. This represents a 29% reduction in electricity usage across a portfolio of comparable
properties
and reflects an annual value of over $36 million in avoided operating costs. Our documented reduction in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our energy management efforts is 229,000 metric tons of
CO2e.   

              In
2012, we were awarded    NAREIT's Leader in the Light Award    for our energy conservation efforts for the eighth straight year. We are the
only company to have achieved the Leader in the Light distinction every single year since NAREIT launched the program in 2005. We were included in the 2012 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index published
by the Carbon Disclosure Project and were the only REIT to earn a place on this index for the second straight year.   

Mortgage Financing on Properties      

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages and other indebtedness encumbering our properties, and the
properties held by our domestic and international joint venture arrangements, and also our unsecured corporate debt. Substantially all of the mortgage and property related debt is nonrecourse to us.   

  38  

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES       As of December 31, 2012   (Dollars in thousands)            

39  

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)    

40  

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)    

41  

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)    

42  

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)    

(Footnotes on following page)     

  43  

Table of Contents    

   (Footnotes for preceding pages)   

(1)    Variable
rate loans based on 1M LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 100 bps to 450 bps. 1M LIBOR as of December 31, 2012 was 0.21%.
      (2)    Requires
monthly payment of interest only.
      (3)    Includes
applicable extension available at the Applicable Borrower's option.
      (4)    Variable
rate loan based on 1M CDOR plus 115 bps. 1M CDOR at December 31, 2012 was 1.23%.
      (5)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. CAD Equivalent is 31,600.0 million.
      (6)    We
have executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on $245 million of this loan at 6.26%.
      (7)    Variable
rate loans based on KLIBOR plus interest rate spread of 225 bps. KLIBOR as of December 31, 2012 was 3.10%.
      (8)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (9)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Ringgit equivalent is 79,724.0 million.
      (10)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized.
      (11)    Associated
with these loans are interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate of the loans at the all-in rate presented.
      (12)    Variable
rate loans based on1M Yen LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 27.5 bps to 187.5 bps. 1M Yen LIBOR as of December 31, 2012 was
0.13%.
      (13)    Lender
also participates in a percentage of certain gross receipts above a specified base. This threshold was met and additional interest was paid in 2012.
      (14)    Requires
semi-annual payments of interest only.
      (15)    $4.0 Billion
Credit Facility and $2.0 Billion Supplemental Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2012, the Credit Facility and
Supplemental Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR + 100 basis points and provide for different pricing based upon our investment grade rating. As of December 31, 2012,
$4.4 billion was available after outstanding borrowings and letter of credits.
      (16)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Euro 900.0 million.
      (17)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. Won Equivalent is 108,260.0 million.
      (18)    Variable
rate loan based on 1M LIBOR plus an interest rate spread of 375 bps. In addition, 1M LIBOR is capped at 3.75%.
      (19)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (20)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (21)    Loans
secured by these ten properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (22)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (23)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Yen 22,265.0 million.
      (24)    Through
an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.50%.
      (25)    Comprised
of a $15.0 million note at 5.94% and a $12.8 million note that is non-interest bearing.
      (26)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Yen equivalent is 30,879.2 million
      (27)    Variable
rate loans based on 91 Day Korean CD rate plus interest rate spreads ranging from 200 bps to 312 bps. The 91 Day Korean CD rate as of
December 31, 2012 was 2.89%.
      (28)    Comprised
of a $27.0 million note at 5.89% and a $20.0 million note that is non-interest bearing.    
  44  

Table of Contents   

(29)    Consists
of 8 properties with interest rates ranging from 4.50% to 7.32% and maturities between 2013 and 2023.
      (30)    Unsecured
notes were retired at maturity.
      (31)    Our
share of total indebtedness includes a pro rata share of the mortgage debt on joint venture properties, including The Mills Limited Partnership. To the
extent total indebtedness is secured by a property, it is non-recourse to us, with the exception of approximately $84.9 million of payment guarantees provided by the Operating
Partnership.
      (32)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (33)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (34)    We
have noticed holders of these notes our intent to prepay at par on March 1, 2013.   

The
changes in consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 are as follows:   

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings            

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including, but not
limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such litigation, claims and
administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can
be reasonably estimated.    

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures            

              Not applicable.   

  45  

Table of Contents    

Part II            

Item 5.    Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities            

Market Information      

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range for the shares and the
dividends declared per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years are shown below:   

(1)    Consists
of a regular quarterly dividend of $0.90 per share and a special common stock dividend of $0.20 per share.    

There
is no established public trading market for Simon Property's Class B common stock. Dividends on the Class B common stock are identical to the common stock.   

Holders      

The number of holders of record of common stock outstanding was 1,588 as of December 31, 2012. The Class B common stock is subject to
two voting trusts as to which Herbert Simon and David Simon are the trustees. Shares of Class B common stock convert automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock upon the occurrence of
certain events and can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders.   

Dividends      

We must pay a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends typically exceed our net income generated in
any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a non-cash expense. Our future dividends and future distributions of the Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors
based on actual results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, cash reserves as deemed necessary for capital and operating expenditures, and the amount required
to maintain our status as a REIT.   

              Common
stock dividends during 2012 aggregated $4.10 per share. Common stock dividends during 2011 aggregated $3.50 per share, including a special common stock dividend of $0.20 per
share paid in December. On February 1, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.15 per share of common stock payable on February 28, 2013 to stockholders of record on February 14,
2013.   

              We
offer a dividend reinvestment plan that allows our stockholders to acquire additional shares by automatically reinvesting cash dividends. Shares are acquired pursuant to the plan at
a price equal to the prevailing market price of such shares, without payment of any brokerage commission or service charge.   

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities      

During the fourth quarter of 2012, we issued 554,756 shares of common stock to limited partners in exchange for an equal number of
units. The issuance of the shares of common stock was made pursuant to the terms of the Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership and was exempt from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2)
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   

  46  

Table of Contents   

Issuances Under Equity Compensation Plans      

For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this report.   

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Selected Financial Data section of our 2012 Annual
Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.    

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.    

Item 7A.    Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources   Market Risk," filed as Exhibit 13.1 to
this Form 10-K.    

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            

              Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements contained in Item 15.    

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            

None.    

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures            

                Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Because of inherent limitations, disclosure controls and procedures, no
matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of disclosure controls and procedures are met.   

              Our
management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures
are effective at a reasonable assurance level.   

                Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       Our management's report on internal control
over financial reporting is set forth
in our 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.   

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       There was no change in our internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Rule
13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B.    Other Information            

              During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors approved certain audit,
audit-related and non-audit tax compliance and tax consulting services to be provided by Ernst   Young LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. This disclosure is made
pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Exchange Act, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

  47  

Table of Contents   

Part III            

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2013 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and the information included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.   

Item 11.    Executive Compensation            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2013 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2013 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2013 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2013 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

  48  

Table of Contents    

Part IV            

Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules            

(1)  
     
     Consolidated Financial Statements    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' consolidated financial statements and independent registered public accounting firm's reports are included in our 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed
as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.  

(2)  
      
      Financial Statement Schedule    
      
      Page No.    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Schedule III   Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
      
   53  

Notes to Schedule III  
      
   62  

(3)  
      
      Exhibits    

The Exhibit Index attached hereto is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item.  
      
   63  

49  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES        

              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
    /s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer  

February
28, 2013   

              Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon  
     
   Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  
     
   February 28, 2013  

/s/ HERBERT SIMON 

Herbert Simon  
      
    Chairman Emeritus and Director  
      
    February 28, 2013  

/s/ RICHARD S. SOKOLOV 

Richard S. Sokolov  
      
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director  
      
    February 28, 2013  

/s/ MELVYN E. BERGSTEIN 

Melvyn E. Bergstein  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2013  

/s/ LARRY C. GLASSCOCK 

Larry C. Glasscock  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28 ,2013  

/s/ REUBEN S. LEIBOWITZ 

Reuben S. Leibowitz  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2013  

/s/ J. ALBERT SMITH, JR. 

J. Albert Smith, Jr.  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2013  

/s/ KAREN N. HORN 

Karen N. Horn  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2013  

50  

Table of Contents   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ ALLAN HUBBARD 

Allan Hubbard  
     
   Director  
     
   February 28, 2013  

/s/ DANIEL C. SMITH 

Daniel C. Smith  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2013  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett  
      
    Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
      
    February 28, 2013  

/s/ STEVEN K. BROADWATER 

Steven K. Broadwater  
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
      
    February 28, 2013  

51  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

52  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

53  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

54  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

55  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

56  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

57  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

58  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

59  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

60  

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2012 
(Dollars in thousands)     

61  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries        Notes to Schedule III as of December 31, 2012        (Dollars in thousands)            

    (1) Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:     

              The changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 are as follows:   

The
unaudited aggregate cost of real estate assets for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2012 was $27,028,879. We utilize bonus depreciation for tax purposes when
available.   

    (2) Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:     

The changes in accumulated depreciation and amortization for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 are as follows:   

Depreciation
of our investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income is calculated over the estimated original
lives of the assets as noted below.   

Buildings and Improvements   typically 10-40 years for the structure, 15 years for landscaping and
parking lot, and 10 years for HVAC equipment.   
           Tenant Allowances and Improvements   shorter of lease term or useful life.

(3)     Initial cost generally represents net book value at December 20, 1993, except for acquired properties and new
developments after December 20, 1993. Initial cost also includes any new developments that are opened during the current year. Costs of disposals and impairments of property are first reflected as a
reduction to cost capitalized subsequent to acquisition.
       (4)     Not developed/constructed by us or our predecessors. The date of construction represents the initial
acquisition date for assets in which we have acquired multiple interests.
       (5)     Initial cost for these properties is the cost at the date of consolidation for properties previously accounted
for under the equity method of accounting.
       (6)     Amounts represent preliminary purchase price allocation and are subject to change upon finalization.
       (7)     Encumbrances represent face amount of mortgage debt and exclude any premiums or discounts.    
  62  

Table of Contents   

63  

Table of Contents   

Exhibits    

10.20*  
     
      Form of Simon Property Group Series 2011 LTIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the
Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 7, 2011).  

10.21*  
     
      First Amendment to Simon Property Group Series CEO LTIP Unit Award Agreement dated as of December 13, 2011.  

10.22*  
     
      Form of Series 2012 LTIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q filed May 8, 2012).  

12.1  
     
      Statement regarding computation of ratios.  

13.1  
     
      Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Financial
Statements of the Registrant as contained in the Registrant's 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

21.1  
     
      List of Subsidiaries of the Company.  

23.1  
     
      Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.  

31.1  
     
      Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  
     
      Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32  
     
      Certification by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

101  
     
      The following materials from the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, formatted in XBRL
(Extensible Business Reporting Language): (1) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (2) the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income, (3) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (4) Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

*    Represents
a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.    

64  

10-K
 2
 a2212760zf1_10-k.pdf
 10-K

<EX-12.1>
 3
 a2212760zex-12_1.htm
 EX-12.1

Exhibit 12.1     

    SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
and Preferred Stock Dividends 
Unaudited, (in thousands)     

For
purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, the term "earnings" is the amount resulting from adding (a) pre-tax income from continuing operations before
adjustment for noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries or income or loss from equity investees, (b) fixed charges, (c) amortization of capitalized interest and (d) distributed income of
equity investees, reduced by (a) interest capitalized and (b) the noncontrolling interest in pre-tax income of subsidiaries that have not incurred fixed charges. "Fixed charges" consist of (a)
interest expensed and capitalized, (b) amortized premiums, discounts and capitalized expenses related to indebtedness and (c) an estimate of the interest within rental expense.   

              There
are generally no restrictions on our ability to receive distributions from our joint ventures where no preference in favor of the other owners of the joint venture exists.   

              Ratio
calculations for years prior to the year ended December 31, 2012 have been revised to conform to the most recent presentation.   

  65  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-12.1>
 4
 a2212760zf3_ex-121.pdf
 EX-12.1

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 5
 a2212760zex-13_1.htm
 EX-13.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 13.1     

              The following tables set forth selected financial data. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements and notes thereto and with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Other data we believe is important in understanding trends in our business
is also included in the tables.   

(1)    During
the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $350.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with two unsecured notes tender offers,
reducing diluted FFO and diluted earnings per share by $1.00. We also recorded transaction expenses of $69.0 million, reducing diluted FFO and diluted earnings per share by $0.20 and $0.19,
respectively.
      (2)    Represents
dividends declared per period.
      (3)    Ratio
calculations for years prior to the year ended December 31, 2012 have been revised to conform to the most recent presentation.
      (4)    FFO
is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe provides useful information to investors. Please refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a definition and reconciliation of FFO to consolidated net income and FFO per share to net income per share.    
  66  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries            

              The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto
that are included in this Annual Report to Stockholders.   

Overview     

              Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real
estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code. REITs will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as
they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real
estate properties and other assets. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle centers. As of
December 31, 2012, we owned or held an interest in 317 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 160 malls, 63 Premium Outlets, 68 community/lifestyle centers, 13 Mills, and
13 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 38 states and Puerto Rico. We also have reinstituted redevelopment and expansion initiatives with renovation and expansion projects currently underway at
24 properties in the U.S. with 56 new anchor and big box tenants having opened in 2012 and an additional 30 scheduled to open in 2013. Internationally, as of December 31, 2012, we had ownership
interests in eight Premium Outlets in Japan, two Premium Outlets in South Korea, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. Additionally, as of December 31, 2012, we owned a
28.9% equity stake in Kl pierre SA, or Kl pierre, a publicly traded, Paris-based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, more than 260 shopping centers
located in 13 countries in Europe.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:  

base minimum rents,   
           overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and   
           recoverable expenditures such as property operating, real estate taxes, repair and maintenance, and advertising and
promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

We
invest in real estate properties to maximize total financial return which includes both operating cash flows and capital appreciation. We seek growth in earnings, funds from
operations, or FFO, and cash flows by enhancing the profitability and operation of our properties and investments. We seek to accomplish this growth through the
following:  

attracting and retaining high quality tenants and utilizing economies of scale to reduce operating expenses,    
           expanding and re-tenanting existing highly productive locations at competitive rental rates,    
           selectively acquiring or increasing our interests in high quality real estate assets or portfolios of assets,    
           generating consumer traffic in our retail properties through marketing initiatives and strategic corporate alliances, and    
           selling selective non-core assets.    

We
also grow by generating supplemental revenue from the following activities:  

establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media initiatives, business
development, sponsorship, and events,    
 
  67  

offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
provision of energy services,   
           selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           generating interest income on cash deposits and investments in loans, including those made to related entities.    

We
focus on high quality real estate across the retail real estate spectrum. We expand or renovate properties to enhance profitability and market share of existing assets when we
believe the investment of our capital meets our risk-reward criteria. We selectively develop new properties in markets we believe are not adequately served by existing retail outlets.   

              We
routinely review and evaluate acquisition opportunities based on their ability to enhance our portfolio. Our international strategy includes partnering with established real estate
companies and financing international investments with local currency to minimize foreign exchange risk.   

              To
support our growth, we employ a three-fold capital strategy:  

provide the capital necessary to fund growth,   
           maintain sufficient flexibility to access capital in many forms, both public and private, and    
           manage our overall financial structure in a fashion that preserves our investment grade credit ratings.    

We
consider FFO, net operating income, or NOI, and comparable property NOI (NOI for properties owned and operating in both periods under comparison) to be key measures of operating
performance that are not specifically defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. We use these measures internally to evaluate the operating performance of our
portfolio and provide a basis for comparison with other real estate companies. Reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measure are included below in this discussion.   

Results Overview     

              Diluted earnings per common share increased $1.24 during 2012 to $4.72 from $3.48 for 2011. The increase in diluted earnings per share
was primarily attributable to:  

improved operating performance and core business fundamentals in 2012 and the impact of our acquisition and expansion
activity,   
           in 2012, a gain due to the acquisition of a controlling interest, sale or disposal of assets and interests in
unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on investment in unconsolidated entities, net of $510.0 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, primarily driven by a non-cash gain of $488.7 million
resulting from the remeasurement of our previously held interest to fair value for those properties in which we now have a controlling interest,   
           in 2011, a gain due to acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated
entities, net of $216.6 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, primarily driven by non-cash gains totaling $251.2 million related to the acquisition of a controlling interest in a previously
unconsolidated mall and the distribution of a joint venture's properties to us and our venture partner which resulted in a non-cash gain on the distribution,    
           partially offset by increased interest expense in 2012 as described below.    

Core
business fundamentals improved during 2012 primarily driven by higher tenant sales and strong leasing activity. Our share of portfolio NOI grew by 15.4% in 2012 as compared to
2011. Comparable property NOI also grew 4.8% in 2012 for our U.S. portfolio of malls and Premium Outlets. Total sales per square foot, or psf, increased 6.6% from $533 psf at December 31, 2011 to $568
psf at December 31, 2012, for our portfolio of U.S. malls and Premium Outlets. Average base minimum rent for U.S. Malls and Premium Outlets increased 3.4% to $40.73 psf as of December 31, 2012, from
$39.40 psf as of December 31, 2011. Releasing spreads remained positive in the U.S. malls and Premium Outlets as we were able to lease available square feet at higher rents than the expiring rental
rates on the   

  68  

same
space, resulting in a releasing spread (based on total tenant payments   base minimum rent plus common area maintenance) of $5.21 psf ($53.24 openings compared to $48.03
closings) as of December 31, 2012, representing a 10.8% increase over expiring payments as of December 31, 2012. Ending occupancy for the U.S. malls and Premium Outlets was 95.3% as of December 31,
2012, as compared to 94.6% as of December 31, 2011, an increase of 70 basis points.   

              Our
effective overall borrowing rate at December 31, 2012 decreased 36 basis points to 4.99% as compared to 5.35% at December 31, 2011. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in
the effective overall borrowing rate on fixed rate debt of 50 basis points (5.33% at December 31, 2012 as compared to 5.83% at December 31, 2011) combined with a decrease in the effective overall
borrowing rate on variable rate debt of five basis points (1.40% at December 31, 2012 as compared to 1.45% at December 31, 2011). At December 31, 2012, the weighted average years to maturity of our
consolidated indebtedness was 5.9 years as compared to 5.7 years at December 31, 2011. Our financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012, included the repayment of $536.2 million in
mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of 3.95% (thereby unencumbering 19 properties), the redemption of $231.0 million of senior unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 5.75% to
6.88% and the repayment of a $735.0 million secured term loan. In 2012, we also had $1.2 billion (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Euro-denominated borrowings and $520.0 million in repayments on our $4.0
billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility.   

In
addition, during the 2012 period, we issued:  

$600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.15% with a maturity date of September 2017,    
           $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 3.375% with a maturity date of March 2022,    
           $550.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 4.75% with a maturity date of March 2042,    
           $750.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 1.50% with a maturity date of February 2018, and    
           $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.75% with a maturity date of February 2023.    

United States Portfolio Data     

              The portfolio data discussed in this overview includes the following key operating statistics: ending occupancy; average base minimum
rent per square foot; and total sales per square foot for our domestic assets. We include acquired properties in this data beginning in the year of acquisition and remove properties sold in the year
disposed. For comparative purposes, we separate the information related to community/lifestyle centers and The Mills from our other U.S. operations. We also do not include any properties located
outside of the United States.   

              The
following table sets forth these key operating statistics for:  

properties that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements,    
           properties we account for under the equity method of accounting as joint ventures, and    
 
  69  

the foregoing two categories of properties on a total portfolio basis.    

(1)    Percentages
may not recalculate due to rounding. Percentage and basis point changes are representative of the change from the comparable prior period.    

                 Ending Occupancy Levels and Average Base Minimum Rent per Square Foot.        Ending occupancy is the
percentage of gross leasable area, or GLA, which is
leased as of the last day of the reporting period. We include all company owned space except for mall anchors and mall majors in the calculation. Base minimum rent per square foot is the average base
minimum rent charge in effect for the reporting period for all tenants that would qualify to be included in ending occupancy.   

                 Total Sales per Square Foot.        Total sales include total reported retail tenant sales on a trailing
12-month basis at owned GLA (for mall stores with
less than 10,000 square feet) in the malls and all reporting tenants at the Premium Outlets and The Mills. Retail sales at owned GLA affect revenue and profitability levels because sales determine the
amount of minimum rent that can be charged, the percentage rent realized, and the recoverable expenses (common area maintenance, real estate taxes, etc.) that tenants can afford to pay.   

Current Leasing Activities      

During 2012, we signed 1,217 new leases and 2,074 renewal leases with a fixed minimum rent (excluding mall anchors and majors, new
development, redevelopment, expansion, downsizing, and relocation) across our U.S. malls and Premium Outlets portfolio, comprising over 10.3 million square feet of which 7.7 million square feet
related to consolidated properties. During 2011, we signed 1,165 new leases and 1,714 renewal leases, comprising approximately 8.8 million square feet of which 6.7 million square feet related to
consolidated properties. The average annual initial base minimum rent for new leases was $40.46 psf in 2012 and $40.65 psf in 2011 with an average tenant allowance on new leases of $36.45 psf and
$33.31 psf, respectively.   

  70  

International Property Data     

              The following are selected key operating statistics for our Premium Outlets in Japan. The information used to prepare these statistics
has been supplied by the managing venture partner.   

(1)    Does
not include Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets in Japan as the property was closed for repair due to damages from the earthquake in Japan in March 2011. The
center re-opened on June 17, 2011.    

    Critical Accounting Policies     

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting
policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, it is possible that different accounting policies would
have been applied resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we reevaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be
different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current information. Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may
require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 3 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account
for our leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay overage
rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed its sales threshold.    
           We review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, a decline in a property's cash flows, occupancy or comparable
sales per square foot. We measure any impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the
carrying value of the property. To the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We may decide to sell properties
that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ from their carrying values. We also review our investments, including investments in unconsolidated entities, if events or
circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may not be recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the
investments below carrying value is other-than-temporary. Changes in economic and operating conditions that occur subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other
investments could impact the assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.    
           To maintain our status as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income in any given year and meet certain
asset and income tests. We monitor our business and transactions that may potentially impact our REIT status. In the unlikely event that we fail to maintain our REIT status, and available relief
provisions do not apply, then we would be required to pay federal income taxes at regular corporate income tax rates during the period we did not qualify as a REIT. If we lost our REIT status, we
could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions    
 
  71  

were
met. As a result, failing to maintain REIT status would result in a significant increase in the income tax expense recorded and paid during those periods.   

We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the
acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings as-if-vacant, land and market
value of in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our estimates of the values of these components will affect the amount
of depreciation we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the market value of in-place leases, we make our best estimates of the
tenants' ability to pay rents based upon the tenants' operating performance at the property, including the competitive position of the property in its market as well as sales psf, rents psf, and
overall occupancy cost for the tenants in place at the acquisition date. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the remaining lease term for the acquired
in-place leases.   
           A variety of costs are incurred in the development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a
cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of
judgment. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property,
development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project as
substantially completed and held available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon opening.    

Results of Operations     

              In addition to the activity discussed above in "Results Overview" section, the following acquisitions, openings, and dispositions of
consolidated properties affected our consolidated results in the comparative periods:  

During 2012, we disposed of one mall, two community centers and six of our non-core retail properties.    
           On December 4, 2012, we acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling interest in two previously consolidated outlet properties
located in Livermore, California, and Grand Prairie, Texas, which opened on November 8, 2012 and August 16, 2012, respectively.   
           On June 14, 2012, we opened Merrimack Premium Outlets, a 410,000 square foot outlet center located in Hillsborough County,
serving the Greater Boston and Nashua markets.   
           On March 29, 2012, Opry Mills re-opened after completion of the restoration of the property following the significant flood
damage which occurred in May 2010.   
           On March 22, 2012, we acquired additional interests in 26 joint venture properties previously owned by the Mills Limited
Partnership, or TMLP, or the Mills transaction. Nine of these properties became consolidated properties at the acquisition date.   
           During 2011, we disposed of four of our non-core retail properties and one of our malls.    
           On December 31, 2011, a 50% joint venture distributed a portfolio of properties to us and our joint venture partner. We now
consolidate those properties we received in the distribution.   
           On August 25, 2011, we acquired additional interests in The Plaza at King of Prussia and The Court at King of Prussia, or,
collectively, King of Prussia, a 2.4 million square foot mall in the Philadelphia market, which had previously been accounted for under the equity method. We now have a controlling interest in this
property and its results are consolidated as of the acquisition date.   
           On July 19, 2011, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in a 222,000 square foot lifestyle center located in Albuquerque,
New Mexico.   
           During 2010, we disposed of one mall, one community center, and one non-core retail property and acquired a controlling
interest in a mall.    
 
  72  

On August 30, 2010, we completed the acquisition of Prime Outlets Acquisition Company, or the Prime acquisition, acquiring
21 outlet centers, including a center located in Puerto Rico, which was acquired on May 13, 2010.    

In
addition to the activities discussed above and in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, dispositions, and openings of joint venture properties affected our income from
unconsolidated entities in the comparative periods:  

During 2012, we disposed of our interests in three non-core retail properties and one mall.    
           On December 31, 2012, we contributed The Shops at Mission Viejo, a wholly-owned property, to a newly formed joint venture
in exchange for an interest in Woodfield Mall, a property contributed to the same joint venture by our joint venture partner.   
           On October 19, 2012, we opened Tanger Outlets in Texas City, a 350,000 square foot upscale outlet center located in Texas
City, Texas. This new center is a joint venture with Tanger Factory Outlet Centers, Inc. in which we have a 50% noncontrolling interest.   
           On June 4, 2012, we acquired a 50% interest in a 465,000 square foot outlet center located in Destin, Florida.    
           As discussed above, on March 22, 2012, we acquired additional interests in 26 joint venture properties in the Mills
transaction. Of these 26 properties, 16 remain unconsolidated.   
           On March 14, 2012, we acquired a 28.7% equity stake in Kl pierre. On May 21, 2012, Kl pierre
paid a dividend, which we elected to receive in additional shares, increasing our ownership to approximately 28.9%.   
           On January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership interest in Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A, or GCI, a joint venture
which at the time owned 45 properties located in Italy to our venture partner, Auchan S.A.   
           On January 6, 2012, we acquired an additional 25% interest in Del Amo Fashion Center.    
           During 2011, we disposed of one of our malls.   
           On December 2, 2011, we and our partner, Genting Berhad, opened Johor Premium Outlets, a 173,000 square foot outlet center
in Johor, Malaysia.   
           During the third quarter of 2011, we contributed a wholly-owned property to a joint venture which holds our interests in
nine unconsolidated properties. The transaction effectively exchanged a portion of our interest in this previously wholly-owned property for increased ownership interests in the nine unconsolidated
properties.   
           On March 17, 2011, we and our partner, Shinsegae International Co., opened Paju Premium Outlets, a 328,000 square foot
outlet center in Paju, South Korea.   
           During 2010, we disposed of one of our non-core retail properties.   
           On July 15, 2010, we and our partner sold our collective interests in a joint venture which owned seven shopping centers
located in France and Poland.   
           On May 28, 2010, we acquired an additional noncontrolling interest of approximately 19% in Houston Galleria, located in
Houston, Texas, thereby increasing our interest from 31.5% to 50.4%.    

For
the purposes of the following comparisons between the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011and the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the above transactions are referred to as
the property transactions. In the following discussions of our results of operations, "comparable" refers to properties open and operating throughout both years in the year-to-year comparisons.   

     Year Ended December 31, 2012 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2011      

              Minimum rents increased $351.1 million during 2012, of which the property transactions accounted for $280.4 million of the increase.
Comparable rents increased $70.7 million, or 2.7%, primarily attributable to a $76.0 million increase in base minimum rents. Overage rents increased $54.9 million, or 39.0%, as a result of the
property transactions and an increase in tenant sales in 2012 compared to 2011 at the comparable properties of $31.3 million.   

  73  

Tenant
reimbursements increased $163.0 million, due to a $141.8 million increase attributable to the property transactions and a $21.2 million, or 1.9%, increase in the comparable
properties primarily due to annual increases related to common area maintenance and real estate tax reimbursements, offset partially by a decrease in utility recoveries due to lower electricity costs.   

Total
other income increased $4.2 million, principally as a result of the following:  

a $12.4 million increase from a gain on the sale of our investments in two multi-family residential facilities,    
           an $11.7 million increase in land sale activity, and   
           a $9.7 million increase in financing and other fee revenue earned from joint ventures net of eliminations,    
           partially offset by a decrease in interest income of $24.8 million related to the repayment of related party loans and
loans held for investment, and   
           $4.8 million of net other activity.    

Property
operating expense increased $33.2 million primarily related to a $49.1 million increase attributable to the property transactions partially offset by a $15.9 million decrease
in comparable property activity due primarily to our continued cost savings efforts.   

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $191.6 million primarily due to the additional depreciable assets related to the property transactions.   

              Real
estate tax expense increased $49.5 million primarily due to a $44.3 million increase related to the property transactions.   

              During
2012, we recorded a provision for credit losses of $12.8 million whereas in the prior year the provision was $6.5 million. Both amounts reflect the overall strong economic health
of our tenants.   

              General
and administrative expense increased $10.8 million primarily as a result of increased long-term performance based incentive compensation costs including amortization of the CEO
retention award which commenced mid-year 2011.   

              Marketable
and non-marketable securities charges and realized gains, net, of $6.4 million in 2012 was the result of the sale of all of our investments in Capital Shopping Centres Group
PLC, or CSCG, and Capital   Counties Properties PLC, or CAPC, for a gain of $82.7 million, partially offset by other-than-temporary non-cash impairment charges related to certain non-marketable
investments in securities of $76.3 million.   

              Interest
expense increased $143.5 million primarily due to an increase of $113.3 million related to the property transactions. The remainder of the increase resulted from borrowings on
the Euro tranche of the Credit Facility, and the issuance of unsecured notes in the first and fourth quarters of 2012 and the fourth quarter of 2011. These increases were partially offset by a lower
effective overall borrowing rate, decreased interest expense related to the repayment of $536.2 million of mortgages at 19 properties, the payoff of a $735.0 million secured term loan, and our payoff
of $542.5 million of unsecured notes in 2011 and $231.0 million of unsecured notes in 2012.   

Income
and other taxes increased $4.3 million due to income-based and withholding taxes on dividends from certain of our international investments.   

              Income
from unconsolidated properties increased $50.7 million as result of the property transactions, primarily due to the increase in ownership in the joint venture properties acquired
as part of the Mills transaction, and favorable results of operations from the portfolio of joint venture properties.   

              During
2012, we disposed of our interest in GCI, four unconsolidated properties, and eight consolidated retail properties for a net gain of $43.7 million and acquired a controlling
interest in nine properties previously accounted for under the equity method in the Mills transaction which resulted in the recognition of a non-cash gain of $488.7 million. In addition, we recorded
an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $22.4 million on our remaining investment in SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, which holds our investment in TMLP, representing the excess of carrying
value over the estimated fair value. During 2011, we disposed of our interest in an unconsolidated mall, one consolidated mall, and four non-core retail properties, and acquired a controlling interest
in a mall previously accounted for under the equity method. In addition, on December 31, 2011, a joint venture in which we had a 50% interest was dissolved and, as a result, distributed a portfolio of
properties to us and our joint venture partner. We now   

  74  

consolidate
the six properties we received in the distribution and recorded a non-cash gain representing the fair value of the net assets received in excess of the carrying value of our interest in
the joint venture portfolio. These transactions resulted in an aggregate net gain in 2011 of $216.6 million.   

              Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $64.0 million primarily due to an increase in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

     Year Ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2010      

              Minimum rents increased $235.2 million during 2011, of which the property transactions accounted for $170.2 million of the increase.
Comparable rents increased $65.0 million, or 2.8%. The increase in comparable rents was primarily attributable to a $64.7 million increase in base minimum rents. Overage rents increased $30.2 million,
or 27.3%, as a result of an increase related to the property transactions of $14.1 million and an increase in tenant sales during 2011.   

Tenant
reimbursements increased $93.5 million, due to a $63.9 million increase attributable to the property transactions and a $29.6 million, or 2.9%, increase in the comparable
properties primarily due to increases to the fixed reimbursement related to common area maintenance.   

              Total
other income decreased $16.9 million, principally as a result of the following:  

a decrease in lease settlement income of $38.1 million due to a higher number of terminated leases in 2010,    
           partially offset by an increase in interest income of $8.7 million primarily related to loans held for investment,    
           a $2.0 million increase in land sale activity, and   
           a $10.5 million increase in net other activity.    

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $83.1 million primarily due to additional depreciable assets acquired in the King of Prussia and Prime acquisitions.   

Real
estate tax expense increased $23.8 million primarily due to an $18.1 million increase related to the property transactions. Repairs and maintenance expense increased $11.1 million
of which the property transactions accounted for $6.9 million. Repairs and maintenance expense at the comparable properties increased $4.2 million primarily due to increased general repairs at the
properties.   

              During
2011, we recorded a provision for credit losses of $6.5 million whereas in the prior year the provision was $3.1 million. Our bad debt provision in both 2011 and 2010 was lower
than our historical experience.   

              Home
and regional office expense increased $19.3 million primarily due to increased long-term incentive compensation and marginally higher personnel costs.   

              General
and administrative expense increased $25.1 million primarily as a result of increased performance compensation costs.   

              Other
expenses increased $23.6 million of which the property transactions accounted for $10.2 million and the comparable properties and corporate costs accounted for $13.4 million
primarily related to an increase in legal and professional fees and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.   

  75  

Interest
expense decreased $43.6 million primarily related to the repayment of five unsecured notes in 2011, repayment of mortgages at six properties and purchases of senior unsecured
notes in the January 2010 and August 2010 tender offers, offset by increased borrowings under our Credit Facility, new or refinanced debt at several properties, including debt associated with the
Prime acquisition, and new unsecured debt and the issuance of two series of unsecured notes in 2011.   

              During
2011, we disposed of our interest in an unconsolidated mall, one consolidated mall, and four non-core retail properties, and acquired a controlling interest in a mall previously
accounted for under the equity method. In addition, on December 31, 2011, a joint venture in which we had a 50% interest was dissolved and, as a result, distributed a portfolio of properties to us and
our joint venture partner. We now consolidate the six properties we received in the distribution and recorded a non-cash gain representing the fair value of the net assets received in excess of the
carrying value of our interest in the joint venture portfolio. These transactions resulted in an aggregate net gain in 2011 of $216.6 million. During 2010, we recorded a gain of $321.0 million
primarily due to our share of the gain on the sale of our interest in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l., the gain on the acquisition of a controlling interest in a mall previously accounted for
under the equity method and the gain on the sale of Porta di Roma by GCI.   

              Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $84.6 million primarily due to an increase in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

              Preferred
dividends decreased $3.3 million as a result of the conversion and redemption of the remaining Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, or Series I
preferred stock, in the second quarter of 2010.   

Liquidity and Capital Resources     

              Because we own primarily long-lived income-producing assets, our financing strategy relies primarily on long-term fixed rate debt. We
minimize the use of floating rate debt and enter into floating rate to fixed rate interest rate swaps. Floating rate debt currently comprises only 8.8% of our total consolidated debt at December 31,
2012. We also enter into interest rate protection agreements to manage our interest rate risk. We derive most of our liquidity from leases that generate positive net cash flow from operations and
distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities that totaled $2.7 billion during 2012. In addition, the Credit Facility and the $2.0 billion supplemental unsecured revolving credit facility, or
Supplemental Facility, provide alternative sources of liquidity as our cash needs vary from time to time. Borrowing capacity under each of these facilities can be increased at our sole option as
discussed further below.   

              Our
balance of cash and cash equivalents increased $385.9 million during 2012 to $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2012 as further discussed in "Cash Flows" below.   

              On
December 31, 2012, we had an aggregate available borrowing capacity of $4.4 billion under the Credit Facility and the Supplemental Facility, net of outstanding borrowings of $1.6
billion and letters of credit of $45.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the maximum amount outstanding under the Credit Facility and Supplemental Facility was $3.1 billion and the
weighted average amount outstanding was approximately $1.9 billion. The weighted average interest rate was 1.19% for the year ended December 31, 2012.   

              We
and the Operating Partnership have historically had access to public equity and long term unsecured debt markets and access to secured debt and private equity from institutional
investors at the property level.   

              Our
business model and status as a REIT requires us to regularly access the debt markets to raise funds for acquisition, development and redevelopment activity, and to refinance
maturing debt. We may also, from time to time, access the equity capital markets to accomplish our business objectives. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand and availability under the Credit
Facility and the Supplemental Facility to address our debt maturities and capital needs through 2013.   

Loan to SPG-FCM     

As discussed in Note 7 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the loan to SPG-FCM was extinguished in the Mills
transaction. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded approximately $2.0 million, $9.8 million and $9.9 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to this loan, respectively.   

  76  

Cash Flows     

Our net cash flow from operating activities and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities totaled $2.7 billion during 2012.
In addition, we received net proceeds from our debt financing and repayment activities in 2012 of $2.2 billion. These activities are further discussed below in "Financing and Debt". During 2012, we or
the Operating Partnership also:  

issued 9,137,500 shares of common stock in a public offering for $1.2 billion, net of issue costs,    
           redeemed 2,000,000 units for $248.0 million,   
           funded the acquisition of an additional interest in a property, the equity stake in Kl pierre, additional
interests in 26 joint venture properties in the Mills transaction, land previously leased under a ground lease at one of our malls and a 50% interest in an outlet center for $3.7 billion,    
           received proceeds of $375.8 million from the sale of our interest in GCI,    
           received repayments of loans held for investment and loans from related parties of $256.5 million,    
           paid stockholder dividends and unitholder distributions totaling $1.5 billion,    
           paid preferred stock dividends and preferred unit distributions totaling $5.3 million,    
           funded consolidated capital expenditures of $802.4 million (includes development and other costs of $217.3 million,
renovation and expansion costs of $354.3 million, and tenant costs and other operational capital expenditures of $230.8 million),   
           funded investments in marketable securities held to defease mortgage debt and other investments in non-marketable
securities of $184.8 million,   
           funded the cash portion of the purchase of the remaining noncontrolling interest in two consolidated outlet properties for
$229.6 million,   
           received proceeds from the sale of our investments in CSCG and CAPC, and the redemption of marketable securities to defease
mortgage debt of $415.8 million, and   
           funded investments in unconsolidated entities of $201.3 million.    

In
general, we anticipate that cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating expenses, monthly debt service, recurring capital expenditures, and dividends to
stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification on a long-term basis. In addition, we expect to be able to generate or obtain capital for nonrecurring capital expenditures, such as
acquisitions, major building renovations and expansions, as well as for scheduled principal maturities on outstanding indebtedness, from:  

excess cash generated from operating performance and working capital reserves,    
           borrowings on our credit facilities,   
           additional secured or unsecured debt financing, or   
           additional equity raised in the public or private markets.    

We
expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2013, and we consider these projected cash flows in our sources and uses of cash. These cash flows are principally derived
from rents paid by our retail tenants. A significant deterioration in projected cash flows from operations could cause us to increase our reliance on available funds from our credit facilities,
curtail planned capital expenditures, or seek other additional sources of financing as discussed above.   

Financing and Debt     

     Unsecured Debt      

At December 31, 2012, our unsecured debt consisted of $13.4 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating Partnership, $1.3
billion outstanding under our Credit Facility and $259.2 million outstanding under our Supplemental Facility. The December 31, 2012 balance on the Credit Facility included $1.2 billion (U.S. dollar
equivalent) of Euro-denominated borrowings and the entire balance on the Supplemental Facility on such date consisted of   

  77  

Yen-denominated
borrowings, both of which are designated as net investment hedges of a portion of our international investments.   

On
December 31, 2012, we had an aggregate available borrowing capacity of $4.4 billion under the two credit facilities. The maximum outstanding balance of the credit facilities during
the year ended December 31, 2012 was
$3.1 billion and the weighted average outstanding balance was $1.9 billion. Letters of credit of $45.2 million were outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2012.   

              The
Credit Facility's initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion can be increased at our sole option to $5.0 billion during its term. The Credit Facility will initially mature on
October 30, 2015 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. The base interest rate on the Credit Facility is LIBOR plus 100 basis points with an additional facility fee of 15 basis
points. In addition, the Credit Facility provides for a money market competitive bid option program that allows us to hold auctions to achieve lower pricing for short-term borrowings. The Credit
Facility also includes a $2.0 billion multi-currency tranche.   

              On
June 1, 2012, we entered into the Supplemental Facility with an initial borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion which can be increased at our sole option to $2.5 billion during its term.
The Supplemental Facility will initially mature on June 30, 2016 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. The base interest rate on the Supplemental Facility is LIBOR plus 100
basis points with an additional facility fee of 15 basis points. Like the Credit Facility, the Supplemental Facility provides for a money market competitive bid option program and allows for
multi-currency borrowings. During the second quarter of 2012, we moved $285.0 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings from the Credit Facility to the Supplemental Facility.   

              On
March 13, 2012, the Operating Partnership issued $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.15% with a maturity date of September 2017, $600.0 million of
senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 3.375% with a maturity date of March 2022, and $550.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 4.75% with a maturity date of
March 2042. Proceeds from the unsecured notes offerings were used to fund a portion of the cost of the acquisition of our equity stake in Kl pierre and the Mills transaction.   

On
December 17, 2012, the Operating Partnership issued $750.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 1.50% with a maturity date of February 2018 and $500.0
million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.75% with a maturity date of February 2023. Proceeds from the unsecured notes offerings were used to pay down borrowings on the Credit
Facility and fund general working capital requirements.   

              During
2012, we redeemed at par $231.0 million of senior unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 5.75% to 6.88%.   

On
November 1, 2011, we entered into a $900.0 million unsecured term loan. We drew $160.0 million on the term loan in the first quarter of 2012. In the second quarter of 2012, we repaid
the outstanding balance in full and terminated the term loan.   

Secured Debt      

Total secured indebtedness was $8.0 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. During 2012, we repaid $536.2
million in mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of 3.95%, unencumbering 19 properties, and repaid the outstanding balance of a $735.0 million secured term loan in full.   

              As
a result of the acquisition of additional interests in properties in the Mills transaction in March 2012, as further discussed in Note 7, we consolidated nine properties encumbered
by property-level mortgage debt totaling $2.6 billion. This property-level mortgage debt was previously presented as debt of our unconsolidated entities. We and our joint venture partner had equal
ownership in these properties prior to the transaction.   

Covenants      

Our unsecured debt agreements contain financial covenants and other non-financial covenants. If we were to fail to comply with these
covenants, after the expiration of the applicable cure periods, the debt maturity could be accelerated or other remedies could be sought by the lender including adjustments to the applicable interest
rate. As of December 31, 2012, we are in compliance with all covenants of our unsecured debt.   

              At
December 31, 2012, we or our subsidiaries were the borrowers under 78 non-recourse mortgage notes secured by mortgages on 78 properties, including seven separate pools of
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 27 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage   

  78  

included
in the cross-defaulted pool may constitute a default under all mortgages within that pool and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the pool. Certain of our
secured debt contain financial and other non-financial covenants which are specific to the properties which serve as collateral for that debt. If the borrower fails to comply with these covenants, the
lender could accelerate the debt and enforce its right against their collateral. At December 31, 2012, the applicable borrowers under these non-recourse mortgage notes were in compliance with all
covenants where non-compliance could individually, or giving effect to applicable cross-default provisions in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.   

Summary of Financing     

Our consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect outstanding derivative instruments, and the effective weighted average interest rates as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):   

As
of December 31, 2012, we had $483.7 million of notional amount fixed rate swap agreements that have a weighted average fixed pay rate of 2.52% and a weighted average variable receive
rate of 0.58% which effectively convert variable rate debt to fixed rate debt.   

Contractual Obligations and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements      

In regards to long-term debt arrangements, the following table summarizes the material aspects of these future obligations on our
consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2012, and subsequent years thereafter (dollars in thousands) assuming the obligations remain outstanding through initial maturities:   

(1)    Represents
principal maturities only and therefore, excludes net premiums of $62,257.
      (2)    Variable
rate interest payments are estimated based on the LIBOR rate at December 31, 2012.
      (3)    Represents
contractual commitments for capital projects and services at December 31, 2012. Our share of estimated 2013 development, redevelopment and
expansion activity is further discussed below in the "Development Activity" section.
      (4)    Represents
only the minimum non-cancellable lease period, excluding applicable lease extension and renewal options.    

Certain
of our consolidated properties have redemption features whereby the remaining interest in a property or portfolio of properties can be redeemed at the option of the holder or in
circumstances that may be outside our control. These amounts are accounted for as temporary equity within limited partners' preferred interest in the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling
redeemable interests in properties in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and totaled $152.5 million at December 31, 2012.   

              Our
off-balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of our investments in joint ventures which are common in the real estate industry and are described in Note 7 to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. Our joint ventures typically fund their cash needs through secured debt financings obtained by and in the name of the joint   

  79  

venture
entity. The joint venture debt is secured by a first mortgage, is without recourse to the joint venture partners, and does not represent a liability of the partners, except to the extent the
partners or their affiliates expressly guarantee the joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2012, the Operating Partnership had guaranteed $84.9 million of the total joint venture related mortgage or
other indebtedness. We may elect to fund cash needs of a joint venture through equity contributions (generally on a basis proportionate to our ownership interests), advances or partner loans, although
such fundings are not required contractually or otherwise.   

Acquisitions and Dispositions     

Buy-sell, marketing rights, and other exit mechanisms are common in real estate partnership agreements. Most of our partners are
institutional investors who have a history of direct investment in retail real estate. We and our partners in our joint venture properties may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock
up or similar restrictions). If we determine it is in our stockholders' best interests for us to purchase the joint venture interest and we believe we have adequate liquidity to execute the purchase
without hindering our cash flows, then we may initiate these provisions or elect to buy. If we decide to sell any of our joint venture interests, we expect to use the net proceeds to reduce
outstanding indebtedness or to reinvest in development, redevelopment, or expansion opportunities.   

                 Acquisitions.        On December 31, 2012, we formed a joint venture with Institutional Mall Investors, or IMI,
to own and operate The Shops at Mission
Viejo in the Los Angeles suburb of Mission Viejo, California, and Woodfield Mall in the Chicago suburb of Schaumburg, Illinois. As of December 31, 2012, we and IMI each own a noncontrolling 50%
interest in Woodfield Mall and we own a noncontrolling 51% interest in The Shops at Mission Viejo and IMI owns the remaining 49%. Prior to the formation of the joint venture, we owned 100% of The
Shops at Mission Viejo and IMI owned 100% of Woodfield Mall. No gain was recorded as the transaction was recorded based on the carryover basis of our previous investment. Woodfield Mall is encumbered
by a $425 million mortgage loan which matures in March of 2024 and bears interest at 4.5%. In January 2013, the joint venture closed a $295 million mortgage on the Shops at Mission Viejo which bears
interest at 3.61% and matures in February of 2023.   

              On
December 4, 2012, we acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling equity interest in two previously consolidated outlet properties located in Grand Prairie, Texas, and Livermore,
California, and, accordingly, we now own 100% of these properties. We paid consideration of $260.9 million for the additional interest in the properties, 90% of which was paid in cash and 10% of which
was satisfied through the issuance of units of the Operating Partnership. In addition, the construction loans we had provided to the properties totaling $162.5 million were extinguished on a non-cash
basis. The transaction was accounted for as an equity transaction, as the properties had been previously consolidated.   

On
June 4, 2012, we acquired a 50% interest in a 465,000 square foot outlet center located in Destin, Florida for $70.5 million.   

              On
March 22, 2012, we acquired, through an acquisition of substantially all of the assets of TMLP, additional interests in 26 properties. The transaction resulted in additional
interests in 16 of the properties which remain unconsolidated, the consolidation of nine previously unconsolidated properties and the purchase of the remaining noncontrolling interest in a previously
consolidated property. The transaction was valued at $1.5 billion, which included repayment of the remaining $562.1 million balance on TMLP's senior loan facility and retirement of $100.0 million of
TMLP's trust preferred securities. In connection with the transaction, our $558.4 million loan to SPG-FCM was extinguished on a non-cash basis. We consolidated $2.6 billion in additional
property-level mortgage debt in connection with this transaction. The transaction resulted in a remeasurement of our previously held interest in each of these nine newly consolidated properties to
fair value and the recognition of a corresponding non-cash gain of approximately $488.7 million.   

              On
March 14, 2012, we acquired a 28.7% equity stake in Kl pierre for approximately $2.0 billion. On May 21, 2012 Kl pierre paid a dividend, which we
elected to receive in additional shares, increasing our ownership to approximately 28.9%.   

              On
January 6, 2012, we paid $50.0 million to acquire an additional interest in Del Amo Fashion Center, thereby increasing our interest to 50%.   

                 Dispositions.        We continue to pursue the disposition of properties that no longer meet our strategic
criteria or that are not a primary retail venue
within their trade area.   

  80  

During
2012, we disposed of our interest in eight consolidated retail properties that had an aggregate carrying value of $49.3 million and debt obligations of $62.4 million for
aggregate sales proceeds of $8.0 million resulting in a net gain of $21.1 million. We also disposed of our interest in four unconsolidated retail properties resulting in a net loss of $5.6 million.
During the first quarter of 2012, we sold one of our consolidated non-core retail properties with a carrying value of $115.0 million for nominal consideration and the assumption of the related
mortgage debt of $115.0 million by the acquirer.   

On
May 3, 2012, we sold our investment in two residential apartment buildings located at The Domain in Austin, Texas. Our share of the gain from the sale was $12.4 million, which is
included in other income in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

              On
January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership in GCI to our venture partner, Auchan S.A. The aggregate cash we received was $375.8 million and we recognized a gain on the sale of
$28.8 million.   

Development Activity     

New Domestic Development.        On November 8, 2012, a 512,000 square foot outlet center located in Livermore,
California, opened, and on August 16, 2012,
a 415,000 square foot outlet center located in Grand Prairie, Texas, opened. As discussed above, on December 4, 2012, we acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling interest in these properties and,
accordingly, we now own 100% of these properties.   

On
October 19, 2012, Tanger Outlets in Texas City, a 350,000 square foot upscale outlet center, opened. This new center, in which we have a 50% noncontrolling interest, is a joint
venture with Tanger Factory Outlets Centers, Inc. Our share of the cost of this project is $33.0 million.   

              On
June 14, 2012, we opened Merrimack Premium Outlets, a 410,000 square foot upscale outlet shopping center located on a 170-acre site in Merrimack, New Hampshire, that serve the
Greater Boston and Nashua markets. The total cost of this project was approximately $138.4 million, which was funded with available cash from operations.   

In
addition to our recently opened new development projects, we also have new development projects under construction as noted below. The following describes these new development
projects and our share of the estimated total cost (dollars in millions):   

Domestic Expansions and Renovations.        We routinely incur costs related to construction for significant
renovation and expansion projects at our
properties. We also have reinstituted redevelopment and expansion initiatives which we had previously reduced given the downturn in the economy. Renovation and expansion projects are currently
underway at 24 properties in the U.S. with 56 new anchor and big box tenants having opened in 2012 and an additional 30 scheduled to open in 2013.   

We
expect our share of development costs for 2013 related to renovation or expansion initiatives to be approximately $1.0 billion. We expect to fund these capital projects with cash
flows from operations. Our estimated stabilized return on invested capital typically ranges between 10-12% for all of our new development, expansion and renovation projects.   

Capital Expenditures on Consolidated Properties.      

The following table summarizes total capital expenditures on consolidated properties on a cash basis (in millions):   

81  

International Development Activity.        We typically reinvest net cash flow from our international joint
ventures to fund future international
development activity. We believe this strategy mitigates some of the risk of our initial investment and our exposure to changes in foreign currencies. We have also funded most of our foreign
investments with local currency-denominated borrowings that act as a natural hedge against fluctuations in exchange rates. Currently, our consolidated net income exposure to changes in the volatility
of the Euro, Yen, Won, and other foreign currencies is not material. We expect our share of international development costs for 2013 will be approximately $120 million at the applicable exchange
rates, primarily funded through reinvested joint venture cash flow and construction loans.   

              Rinku
Premium Outlets Phase IV, a 103,000 square foot expansion to the Rinku Premium Outlets located in Osaka, Japan, was completed and opened in July 2012. Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets
Phase III, a 78,000 square foot expansion to the Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets in Osaka, Japan, was completed and opened in December 2012.   

              In
addition to our recently opened expansion projects, we also have a number of new development and expansion projects under construction. The following table describes these new
development and expansion projects as well as our share of the estimated total cost as of December 31, 2012 (in millions):   

Market Risk     

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage exposure to
interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are also exposed to
foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the derivative contracts
hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. Upon completion of the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

              Our
future earnings, cash flows and fair values relating to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market rates of interest, primarily LIBOR, which was at historically low
levels during 2012. Based upon consolidated indebtedness and interest rates at December 31, 2012, a 50 basis point increase in the market rates of interest would decrease future earnings and cash
flows by approximately $10.2 million, and would decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $483.7 million.   

  82  

Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program     

              Common stock dividends during 2012 aggregated $4.10 per share. Common stock dividends during 2011 aggregated $3.50 per share, including
a special December common stock dividend of $0.20 per share. On February 1, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.15 per share of common stock payable on February 28, 2013 to
stockholders of record on February 14, 2013. We must pay a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends typically exceed our net income generated in any given year
primarily because of depreciation, which is a non-cash expense. Our future dividends and future distributions of the Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual
results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, cash reserves as deemed necessary for capital and operating expenditures, and the amount required to maintain our
status as a REIT.   

    Forward-Looking Statements     

              Certain statements made in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance
that its expectations will be attained, and it is possible that our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and
uncertainties. Such factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to meet debt service requirements, the availability of financing, changes in our credit rating, changes in market rates of
interest and foreign exchange rates for foreign currencies, the ability to hedge interest rate risk, risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties, general risks
related to retail real estate, the liquidity of real estate investments, environmental liabilities, international, national, regional and local economic climates, changes in market rental rates,
trends in the retail industry, relationships with anchor tenants, the inability to collect rent due to the bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, risks relating to joint venture properties,
intensely competitive market environment in the retail industry, costs of common area maintenance, risks related to our international investments and activities, insurance costs and coverage,
terrorist activities, changes in economic and market conditions and maintenance of our status as a real estate investment trust. We discussed these and other risks and uncertainties under the heading
"Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may update that discussion in subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, but otherwise we undertake no duty or obligation
to update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.   

    Non-GAAP Financial Measures     

              Industry practice is to evaluate real estate properties in part based on FFO, diluted FFO per share, NOI and comparable property NOI.
We believe that these non-GAAP measures are helpful to investors because they are widely recognized measures of the performance of REITs and provide a relevant basis for our comparison among REITs. We
also use these measures internally to measure the operating performance of our portfolio.   

              We
determine FFO based on the definition set forth by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, as consolidated net income computed in accordance with
GAAP:  

excluding real estate related depreciation and amortization,   
           excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items and cumulative effects of accounting changes,    
           excluding gains and losses from the sales or disposals of previously depreciated retail operating properties,    
           excluding impairment charges of depreciable real estate,   
           plus the allocable portion of FFO of unconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting based upon
economic ownership interest, and   
           all determined on a consistent basis in accordance with GAAP.    

We
have adopted NAREIT's clarification of the definition of FFO that requires us to include the effects of nonrecurring items not classified as extraordinary, cumulative effect of
accounting changes, or a gain or loss resulting from the sale or disposal of, or any impairment charges related to, previously depreciated operating properties.   

We
include in FFO gains and losses realized from the sale of land, outlot buildings, marketable and non-marketable securities, and investment holdings of non-retail real estate.   

  83  

You
should understand that our computation of these non-GAAP measures might not be comparable to similar measures reported by other REITs and that these non-GAAP
measures:  

do not represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP,   
           should not be considered as alternatives to consolidated net income determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of
operating performance, and   
           are not alternatives to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.    
 
  84  

The
following schedule reconciles total FFO to consolidated net income and diluted net income per share to diluted FFO per share.   

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, FFO includes a $350.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with two unsecured notes tender offers, reducing diluted FFO per share
by $1.00 per share. During the year   

  85  

ended
December 31, 2010, we recorded transaction expenses of $69.0 million, reducing diluted FFO per share by $0.20.   

              The
following schedule reconciles net operating income to consolidated net income and sets forth the computations of comparable property NOI.   

(1)    NOI
excluded from comparable property NOI relates to community/lifestyle centers, The Mills, other retail properties, international properties, any of our
non-retail holdings and results of our corporate and management company operations and NOI of U.S. malls and Premium Outlets not owned and operated in both periods under comparison.
      (2)    Comparable
properties are U.S. malls and Premium Outlets that were owned in both of the periods under comparison. Excludes lease termination income,
interest income, land sale gains and the impact of significant redevelopment activities.    

86  

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

              We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal
executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:  

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
disposition of assets;   
           Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and    
           Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

We
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.   

              Based
on that assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   

              Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Their report appears on page 88
of this Annual Report.   

  87  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.   

              We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

              A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

              In
our opinion, Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012,
based on the COSO criteria.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc.
and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2012 of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 28, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

88  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2013, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

89  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(Dollars in thousands, except share amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  90  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  91  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(Dollars in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  92  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

93  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

94  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.   

  95  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    1.    Organization     

Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the
Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code. REITs will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their
taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties and other assets. The terms "we",
"us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle centers. As of
December 31, 2012, we owned or held an interest in 317 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 160 malls, 63 Premium Outlets, 68 community/lifestyle centers, 13 Mills and
13 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 38 states and Puerto Rico. Internationally, as of December 31, 2012, we had ownership interests in eight Premium Outlets in Japan, two Premium Outlets in
South Korea, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. Additionally, as of December 31, 2012, we owned a 28.9% equity stake in Kl pierre SA, or
Kl pierre, a publicly traded, Paris-based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, more than 260 shopping centers located in 13 countries in Europe.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:  

base minimum rents,   
           overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and   
           recoverable expenditures such as property operating, real estate taxes, repair and maintenance, and advertising and
promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
also generate supplemental revenues from the following activities:  

establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media initiatives, business
development, sponsorship, and events,   
           offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
provision of energy services,   
           selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           generating interest income on cash deposits and investments in loans, including those made to related entities.    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation     

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all controlled subsidiaries, and all significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.   

              We
consolidate properties that are wholly owned or properties where we own less than 100% but we control. Control of a property is demonstrated by, among other factors, our ability to
refinance debt and sell the property without the consent of any other partner or owner and the inability of any other partner or owner to replace us.   

              We
also consolidate a variable interest entity, or VIE, when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE is based on whether an
entity has (1) the power to direct activities   

  96  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation (Continued)    

that
most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
Our determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE considers all relationships between us and the VIE, including management agreements and other contractual arrangements. As described in Note 4, we
acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling interest in two previously consolidated outlet properties. We determined these properties were VIEs and we were the primary beneficiary. The noncontrolling
interest was redeemable and was reflected in limited partners' interest in the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties at December 31, 2011. There have been no
other changes during 2012 in previous conclusions about whether an entity qualifies as a VIE or whether we are the primary beneficiary of any previously identified VIE. During 2012, we did not provide
financial or other support to a previously identified VIE that we were not previously contractually obligated to provide.   

              Investments
in partnerships and joint ventures represent our noncontrolling ownership interests in properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. We
initially record these investments at cost and we subsequently adjust for net equity in income or loss, which we allocate in accordance with the provisions of the applicable partnership or joint
venture agreement, cash contributions and distributions, and foreign currency fluctuations, if applicable. The allocation provisions in the partnership or joint venture agreements are not always
consistent with the legal ownership interests held by each general or limited partner or joint venture investee primarily due to partner preferences. We separately report investments in joint ventures
for which accumulated distributions have exceeded investments in and our share of net income of the joint ventures within cash distributions and losses in partnerships and joint ventures, at equity in
the consolidated balance sheets. The net equity of certain joint ventures is less than zero because of financing or operating distributions that are usually greater than net income, as net income
includes non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2012, we consolidated 221 wholly-owned properties and 18 additional properties that are less than wholly-owned, but which we control or for which we are the primary
beneficiary. We account for the remaining 90 properties, or the joint venture properties, as well as our investment in Kl pierre, using the equity method of accounting, as we have
determined we have significant influence over their operations. We manage the day-to-day operations of 74 of the 90 joint venture properties, but have determined that our partner or partners have
substantive participating rights with respect to the assets and operations of these joint venture properties. Our investments in joint ventures in Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, and Mexico comprise 12
of the remaining 16 properties. The international properties are managed locally by joint ventures in which we share oversight responsibility with our partner.   

Preferred
distributions of the Operating Partnership are accrued at declaration and represent distributions on outstanding preferred units of partnership interests held by limited
partners, or preferred units, and are included in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. We allocate net operating results of the Operating Partnership after preferred distributions to
third parties and to us based on the partners' respective weighted average ownership interests in the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of the Operating Partnership attributable to third
parties are reflected in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.   

              Our
weighted average ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was 85.6% and 82.8%, respectively. We adjust the noncontrolling limited partners' interest at the
end of each period to reflect their interest in the Operating Partnership.   

  97  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation (Continued)    

Reclassifications      

We made certain reclassifications of prior period amounts in the consolidated financial statements to conform to the 2012 presentation.
These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net income attributable to common stockholders or earnings per share.   

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

Investment Properties      

We record investment properties at cost. Investment properties include costs of acquisitions; development, predevelopment, and
construction (including allocable salaries and related benefits); tenant allowances and improvements; and interest and real estate taxes incurred during construction. We capitalize improvements and
replacements from repair and maintenance when the repair and maintenance extends the useful life, increases capacity, or improves the efficiency of the asset. All other repair and maintenance items
are expensed as incurred. We capitalize interest on projects during periods of construction until the projects are ready for their intended purpose based on interest rates in place during the
construction period. The amount of interest capitalized during each year is as follows:   

We
record depreciation on buildings and improvements utilizing the straight-line method over an estimated original useful life, which is generally 10 to 40 years. We review depreciable
lives of investment properties periodically and we make adjustments when necessary to reflect a shorter economic life. We amortize tenant allowances and tenant improvements utilizing the straight-line
method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter. We record depreciation on equipment and fixtures utilizing the straight-line method over seven to ten years.   

We
review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of investment properties may
not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in a property's cash flows, ending occupancy or total sales
per square foot. We measure any impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the
carrying value of the property. To the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We estimate fair value using
unobservable data such as operating income, estimated capitalization rates, or multiples, leasing prospects and local market information. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the
sale prices of these properties may differ from their carrying values. We also review our investments, including investments in unconsolidated entities, if events or circumstances change indicating
that the carrying amount of our investments may not be recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the investments is other-than-temporary.
Changes in economic and operating conditions that occur subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other investments could impact the assumptions used in that assessment and
could result in future charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.   

Purchase Accounting Allocation      

We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions and any excess investment in unconsolidated entities to the various components of the
acquisition based upon the fair value of each component which may be derived from   

  98  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  various
observable or unobservable inputs and assumptions. Also, we may utilize third party valuation specialists. These components typically include buildings, land and intangibles related to
in-place leases and we estimate:  

the fair value of land and related improvements and buildings on an as-if-vacant basis,    
           the market value of in-place leases based upon our best estimate of current market rents and amortize the resulting market
rent adjustment into revenues,   
           the value of costs to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances and improvements and leasing commissions, and    
           the value of revenue and recovery of costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the space was vacant.    

Amounts
allocated to building are depreciated over the estimated remaining life of the acquired building or related improvements. We amortize amounts allocated to tenant improvements,
in-place lease assets and other lease-related intangibles over the remaining life of the underlying leases. We also estimate the value of other acquired intangible assets, if any, which are amortized
over the remaining life of the underlying related intangibles.   

Discontinued Operations      

We reclassify any material operations and gains or losses on disposal related to consolidated properties disposed of during the period
to discontinued operations. During 2012, we reported a net gain of approximately $21.1 million, or $.06 per diluted share, on our consolidated property disposition activity. During 2011, we reported a
net loss of approximately $42.4 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, on our consolidated property disposition activity. During 2010, we reported a net gain of approximately $5.7 million upon the
disposal of four retail properties. These gains and losses are reported in gain upon acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, and
impairment charge on investment in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The gains and losses on the disposition of these assets and the
operating results were not significant to our consolidated results of operations during each of the three years ended December 31, 2012.   

Cash and Cash Equivalents      

We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash and cash equivalents. Cash
equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash equivalents generally consist of commercial paper, bankers acceptances, Eurodollars, repurchase agreements, and money market
deposits or securities. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk include our cash and cash equivalents and our trade accounts receivable. We place our cash
and cash equivalents with institutions with high credit quality. However, at certain times, such cash and cash equivalents may be in excess of FDIC and SIPC insurance limits. See Notes 4, 8, and 10
for disclosures about non-cash investing and financing transactions.   

Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities      

Marketable securities consist primarily of the investments of our captive insurance subsidiaries, available-for-sale securities, our
deferred compensation plan investments, and certain investments held to fund the debt service requirements of debt previously secured by investment properties that have been sold.   

              The
types of securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries typically include U.S. Treasury or other U.S. government securities as well as
corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from less than 1 to 10 years. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are valued based upon quoted market prices. The amortized cost
of debt securities, which approximates fair value, held by our captive insurance   

  99  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  subsidiaries
is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Changes in the values of these securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
until the gain or loss is realized or until any unrealized loss is deemed to be other-than-temporary. We review any declines in value of these securities for other-than-temporary impairment and
consider the severity and duration of any decline in value. To the extent an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis is
established. Subsequent changes are then recognized through other comprehensive income (loss) unless another other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred. Net unrealized gains recorded
in other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 were approximately $2.6 million and $41.9 million, respectively, and represent the valuation and related currency adjustments for
our marketable securities.   

              On
October 23, 2012 we completed the sale of all of our investments in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, or CSCG, and Capital   Counties Properties PLC, or CAPC. These investments
were accounted for as available-for-sale securities and their value was adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component, through other comprehensive income
(loss). At the date of sale, we owned 35.4 million shares of CSCG and 38.9 million shares of CAPC. The aggregate proceeds received from the sale were $327.1 million, and we recognized a gain on the
sale of $82.7 million, which is included in marketable and non-marketable securities charges and realized gains, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.
An other-than-temporary impairment charge was previously recognized in operating income in 2009. The gain includes $79.4 million that was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss). At December 31, 2011 we owned 35.4 million shares each of CSCG and of CAPC, and these investments had a market value of $170.7 million and $100.9 million, respectively, with an aggregate net
unrealized gain of approximately $39.7 million.   

              Our
insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain statutory minimum capital and surplus as well as maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. Therefore, our access to these securities may be
limited. Our deferred compensation plan investments are classified as trading securities and are valued based upon quoted market prices. The investments have a matching liability as the amounts are
fully payable to the employees that earned the compensation. Changes
in value of these securities and changes to the matching liability to employees are both recognized in earnings and, as a result, there is no impact to consolidated net income.   

As
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we also had investments of $24.9 million which must be used to fund the debt service requirements of mortgage debt related to investment properties
sold that previously collateralized the debt. These investments are classified as held-to-maturity and are recorded at amortized cost as we have the ability and intent to hold these investments to
maturity.   

              At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had investments of $98.9 million and $105.1 million, respectively, in non-marketable securities that we account for under the cost method. We regularly
evaluate these investments for any other-than-temporary impairment in their estimated fair value in order to determine whether an adjustment in the carrying value is required as of December 31, 2012
and 2011. During the fourth quarter of 2012, as a result of the significance and duration of impairment, represented by the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of certain cost
method investments, we recognized other-than-temporary non-cash charges of $71.0 million, which is included in marketable and non-marketable securities charges and realized gains, net in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The fair value of the remaining investment for these securities that were impaired is not material and was based on Level 2
fair value inputs.   

Fair Value Measurements      

Level 1 fair value inputs are quoted prices for identical items in active, liquid and visible markets such as stock exchanges. Level 2
fair value inputs are observable information for similar items in active or inactive markets, and appropriately consider counterparty creditworthiness in the valuations. Level 3 fair value inputs
reflect our best estimate of inputs and assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement   

  100  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  date.
The inputs are unobservable in the market and significant to the valuation estimate. We have no investments for which fair value is measured on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.   

              We
hold marketable securities that totaled $170.2 million and $417.0 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are primarily considered to have Level 1 fair value inputs.
In addition, we have derivative instruments which are classified as having Level 2 inputs which consist primarily of interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward contracts with a gross
liability balance of $1.5 million and $12.2 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and a gross asset value of $3.0 million and $14.9 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
We also have interest rate cap agreements with nominal values.   

              Note
8 includes a discussion of the fair value of debt measured using Level 2 inputs. Notes 3 and 4 include a discussion of the fair values recorded in purchase accounting and
impairment, using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs. Level 3 inputs to our purchase accounting and impairment include our estimations of net operating results of the property, capitalization rates and
discount rates.   

Use of Estimates      

We prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, or GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements, and revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our actual results could differ from these estimates.   

Segment Disclosure      

Our primary business is the ownership, development, and management of retail real estate. We have aggregated our retail operations,
including malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, community/lifestyle centers, and our international investments into one reportable segment because they have similar economic characteristics and we
provide similar products and services to similar types of, and in many cases, the same tenants.   

Deferred Costs and Other Assets      

Deferred costs and other assets include the following as of December 31:   

Deferred Financing and Lease Costs      

Our deferred costs consist primarily of financing fees we incurred in order to obtain long-term financing and internal and external
leasing commissions and related costs. We record amortization of deferred financing costs on a   

  101  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  straight-line
basis over the terms of the respective loans or agreements. Our deferred leasing costs consist primarily of capitalized salaries and related benefits in connection with lease
originations. We record amortization of deferred leasing costs on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Details of these deferred costs as of December 31 are as follows:   

We
report amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of premiums, and accretion of discounts as part of interest expense. Amortization of deferred leasing costs is a
component of depreciation and amortization expense. We amortize debt premiums and discounts, which are included in mortgages and other indebtedness, over the remaining terms of the related debt
instruments. These debt premiums or discounts arise either at the debt issuance or as part of the purchase price allocation of the fair value of debt assumed in acquisitions. The accompanying
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income include amortization as follows:   

Loans Held for Investment      

From time to time, we may make investments in mortgage loans or mezzanine loans of third parties that own and operate commercial real
estate assets located in the United States. Mortgage loans are secured, in part, by mortgages recorded against the underlying properties which are not owned by us. Mezzanine loans are secured, in
part, by pledges of ownership interests of the entities that own the underlying real estate. Loans held for investment are carried at cost, net of any premiums or discounts which are accreted or
amortized over the life of the related loan receivable utilizing the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of these loans quarterly to
determine whether the value has been impaired. A loan is deemed to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according
to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the loan held for investment to its estimated realizable
value.   

              At
December 31, 2011, we had investments in three mortgage and mezzanine loans with an aggregate carrying value of $162.8 million. In the second and third quarters of 2012, these loans
were repaid in their entirety. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, we recorded $6.8 million, $24.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively, in interest income earned from these loans.   

Intangibles      

The average life of in-place lease intangibles is approximately 4.7 years, is amortized over the remaining life of the leases of the
related property on the straight-line basis and is included with depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The amount of in-place lease
intangibles and acquired above-market lease intangibles increased during 2012 primarily as a result of the acquisition of a controlling interest in nine properties as further discussed in Note 7. The
fair market value of above and below market leases is   

  102  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  amortized
into revenue over the remaining lease life as a component of reported minimum rents. The weighted average remaining life of these intangibles is approximately 5.9 years. The unamortized
amount of below market leases is included in accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and deferred revenues in the consolidated balance sheets and was $199.2 million and $134.4 million as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The amount of amortization of above and below market leases, net for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and
2010 was $16.5 million, $17.6 million, and $15.2 million, respectively. If a lease is terminated prior to the original lease termination, any remaining unamortized intangible is written off to
earnings.   

              Details
of intangible assets as of December 31 are as follows:   

Estimated
future amortization and the increasing (decreasing) effect on minimum rents for our above and below market leases as of December 31, 2012 are as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on
the intended use of the derivative, whether we have elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the
criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. We use a variety of derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to selectively manage or hedge a portion of the risks associated
with our indebtedness and interest payments. Our objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements. To
accomplish this objective, we primarily use interest rate swaps and caps. We require that hedging derivative instruments be highly effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to
hedge. As a result, there was no significant ineffectiveness from any of our derivative activities during the period. We formally designate any instrument that meets these hedging criteria as a hedge
at the inception of the derivative contract. We have no credit-risk-related hedging or derivative activities.   

  103  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

              As
of December 31, 2012, we had the following outstanding interest rate derivatives related to managing our interest rate risk:   

Interest Rate Derivative

Number of Instruments

Notional Amount

Interest Rate Swaps  
     
  3  
     
  $483.7 million  

Interest Rate Caps  
     
  6  
     
  $442.4 million  

The
carrying value of our interest rate swap agreements, at fair value, is a net liability balance of $1.5 million and $10.0 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and is
included in other liabilities. The interest rate cap agreements were of nominal value at December 31, 2012 and 2011 and we generally do not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements.   

              We
are also exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on financial instruments which are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in Japan and Europe. We use currency
forward contracts and foreign currency denominated debt to manage our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates on certain Yen and Euro-denominated receivables and net investments. Currency
forward contracts involve fixing the Yen:USD or Euro:USD exchange rate for delivery of a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified date. The currency forward contracts are typically cash
settled in US dollars for their fair value at or close to their settlement date. Approximately  3.3 billion remains as of December 31, 2012 for all forward contracts that we expect to
settle through January 5, 2015. The December 31, 2012 asset balance related to these forward contracts was $3.0 million and is included in deferred costs and other assets. We have reported the changes
in fair value for these forward contracts in earnings. The underlying currency adjustments on the foreign currency denominated receivables are also reported in income and generally offset the amounts
in earnings for these forward contracts.   

              In
2011, we entered into a Euro:USD forward contract with a  141.3 million notional value which was designated as a net investment hedge. The December 31, 2011 asset
balance related to this forward was $14.9 million and is included in deferred costs and other assets. We applied hedge accounting to this Euro-forward contract and the change in fair value was
reflected in other comprehensive income. Changes in the value of this hedge are offset by changes in the underlying hedged Euro-denominated joint venture investment. In connection with our sale of
Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A., or GCI, as further discussed in Note 7, this hedge was terminated in January 2012.   

              The
total gross accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our derivative activities, including our share of the other comprehensive loss from joint venture properties,
approximated $78.1 million and $115.8 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Noncontrolling Interests and Temporary Equity      

Details of the carrying amount of our noncontrolling interests are as follows as of December 31:   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests (which includes nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, limited partners' interests in the Operating
Partnership, redeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, and preferred distributions payable by the Operating Partnership) is a component of consolidated net income. In addition,
the individual components of other comprehensive income (loss) are presented   

  104  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  in
the aggregate for both controlling and noncontrolling interests, with the portion attributable to noncontrolling interests deducted from comprehensive income attributable to common stockholders.   

              A
rollforward of noncontrolling interests for the years ending December 31 is as follows:   

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)      

The components of our accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following as of December 31:   

105  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Revenue Recognition      

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account for our
leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay overage rents
based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed the applicable sales threshold. We amortize any tenant inducements as a
reduction of revenue utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter.   

              We
structure our leases to allow us to recover a significant portion of our property operating, real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotion expenses from
our tenants. A substantial portion of our leases, other than those for anchor stores, require the tenant to reimburse us for a substantial portion of our operating expenses, including common area
maintenance, or CAM, real estate taxes and insurance. This significantly reduces our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. Such property operating expenses
typically include utility, insurance, security, janitorial, landscaping, food court and other administrative expenses. We accrue reimbursements from tenants for recoverable portions of all these
expenses as revenue in the period the applicable expenditures are incurred. As of December 31, 2012 for approximately 93% of our leases in the U.S. mall portfolio, we receive a fixed payment from the
tenant for the CAM component. When not reimbursed by the fixed-CAM component, CAM expense reimbursements are based on the tenant's proportionate share of the allocable operating expenses and CAM
capital expenditures for the property. We also receive escrow payments for these reimbursements from substantially all our non-fixed CAM tenants and monthly fixed CAM payments throughout the year. We
recognize differences between estimated recoveries and the final billed amounts in the subsequent year. These differences were not material in any period presented. Our advertising and promotional
costs are expensed as incurred.   

Management Fees and Other Revenues      

Management fees and other revenues are generally received from our unconsolidated joint venture properties as well as third parties.
Management fee revenue is earned based on a contractual
percentage of joint venture property revenue. Development fee revenue is earned on a contractual percentage of hard costs to develop a property. Leasing fee revenue is earned on a contractual per
square foot charge based on the square footage of current year leasing activity. We recognize revenue for these services provided when earned based on the underlying activity.   

              Insurance
premiums written and ceded are recognized on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. Insurance losses are reflected in property operating expenses in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and include estimates for losses incurred but not reported as well as losses pending settlement. Estimates for losses are based on
evaluations by third-party actuaries and management's estimates. Total insurance reserves for our insurance subsidiaries and other self-insurance programs as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 approximated
$112.8 million and $115.1 million, respectively, and are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Information related to the securities included in the investment portfolio of
our captive insurance subsidiaries is included within the "Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities" section above.   

              We
recognize fee revenues from our co-branded gift card programs when the fees are earned under the related arrangements with the card issuer. Generally, these revenues are recorded at
the issuance of the gift card for handling fees.   

Allowance for Credit Losses      

We record a provision for credit losses based on our judgment of a tenant's creditworthiness, ability to pay and probability of
collection. In addition, we also consider the retail sector in which the tenant operates and our historical   

  106  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  collection
experience in cases of bankruptcy, if applicable. Accounts are written off when they are deemed to be no longer collectible. Presented below is the activity in the allowance for credit
losses during the following years:   

Income Taxes      

We and certain subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership have elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to REIT qualification. In order to maintain this REIT status, the regulations require the entity to distribute at least 90% of
taxable income to its owners and meet certain other asset and income tests as well as other requirements. We intend to continue to adhere to these requirements and maintain our REIT status and that of
the REIT subsidiaries. As REITs, these entities will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Thus,
we made no provision for federal income taxes for these entities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If we or any of the REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, we or that
entity will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates for the years in which it failed to qualify. If we lose our REIT status we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our
failure to qualify was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were satisfied.   

We
have also elected taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, status for some of our subsidiaries. This enables us to provide services that would otherwise be considered impermissible for REITs
and participate in activities that do not qualify as "rents from real property". For these entities, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial
reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is
provided if we believe all or some portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from the change in circumstances that causes a
change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset is included in income.   

              As
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had a net deferred tax asset of $4.1 million and $5.6 million, respectively, related to our TRS subsidiaries. The net deferred tax asset is included
in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consists primarily of operating losses and other carryforwards for federal income tax purposes as well as the
timing of the deductibility of losses or reserves from insurance subsidiaries. No valuation allowance has been recorded as we believe these amounts will be realized.   

We
are also subject to certain other taxes, including state and local taxes, franchise taxes, as well as income-based and withholding taxes on dividends from certain of our
international investments, which are included in income and other taxes in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income.   

Corporate and Transaction Related Expenses      

Home and regional office costs primarily include compensation and personnel related costs, travel, building and office costs, and other
expenses for our corporate home office and regional offices. General and administrative   

  107  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  expense
primarily includes executive compensation, benefits and travel expenses as well as costs of being a public company including certain legal costs, audit fees, regulatory fees, and certain other
professional fees.   

              We
expense acquisition and potential acquisition costs related to business combinations and disposition related costs as they are incurred. We incurred a minimal amount of transaction
expenses during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred costs in connection with the acquisition of Prime Outlets Acquisition Company, or the
Prime acquisition, and other potential acquisitions, as further discussed in Note 4. In addition, during 2010, we settled, in cash, a transaction-related dispute and recorded a charge to earnings.
These expenses are included within transaction expenses in the accompanying statements of operations and comprehensive income and totaled $69.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2010.   

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions and Dispositions     

We acquire properties to generate both current income and long-term appreciation in value. We acquire individual properties or portfolios of other retail real estate companies
that meet
our investment criteria and sell properties which no longer meet our strategic criteria. Unless otherwise noted below, gains and losses on these transactions are included in gain upon acquisition of
controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on investment in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

              Our
consolidated and unconsolidated acquisition and disposition activity for the periods presented are highlighted as follows:   

2012 Acquisitions      

On December 31, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we contributed a wholly-owned property to a newly formed joint venture in exchange for an
interest in a property contributed to the same joint venture by our joint venture partner.   

On
December 4, 2012, we acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling equity interest in two previously consolidated outlet properties located in Grand Prairie, Texas, and Livermore,
California, and, accordingly, we now own 100% of these properties. We paid consideration of $260.9 million for the additional interest in the properties, 90% of which was paid in cash and 10% of which
was satisfied through the issuance of units of the Operating Partnership. In addition, the construction loans we had provided to the properties totaling $162.5 million were extinguished on a non-cash
basis. The transaction was accounted for as an equity transaction, as the properties had been previously consolidated.   

On
June 4, 2012, we acquired a 50% interest in a 465,000 square foot outlet center located in Destin, Florida for $70.5 million.   

              On
March 22, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we acquired additional interests in 26 of our joint venture properties from SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, in a transaction valued at
approximately $1.5 billion, or the Mills transaction.   

              On
March 14, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we acquired a 28.7% equity stake in Kl pierre for approximately $2.0 billion, including the capitalization of acquisition
costs.   

              On
January 6, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we purchased an additional 25% interest in Del Amo Fashion Center.   

2011 Acquisitions      

On December 31, 2011, we and our joint venture partner dissolved a venture in which we had a 50% interest and distributed a portfolio
of properties previously held within the venture to us and our joint venture partner. As a   

  108  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions and Dispositions (Continued)    

  result,
we have a 100% interest in and now consolidate the six properties we received in the distribution. The distribution resulted in a remeasurement of the distributed assets to estimated fair
value and a corresponding non-cash gain of $168.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 representing the estimated fair value of the net assets received in excess of the carrying value of our interest
in the joint venture portfolio. The asset and liability allocations were recorded based on preliminary portfolio fair value estimates at the date of distribution and were finalized during the third
quarter of 2012 resulting in an allocation to investment property of $585.0 million, lease related intangibles of $59.1 million and mortgage debt of $468.8 million, including debt premiums. We
amortize these amounts over the estimated life of the related depreciable components of investment property, typically no greater than 40 years, the terms of the applicable leases and the applicable
debt maturity, respectively. The adjusted allocations did not have a material impact on the results of operations for the year ended, or on our financial position at, December 31, 2012.   

              On
August 25, 2011, we acquired additional controlling interests of approximately 83.75% in The Plaza at King of Prussia and The Court at King of Prussia, or collectively, King of
Prussia, thereby increasing our ownership interest to 96.1%. The property is subject to a $160.1 million mortgage. The consolidation of this previously unconsolidated property resulted in a
remeasurement of our previously held interest to fair value and a corresponding non-cash gain of $82.9 million in the third quarter of 2011.   

              On
July 19, 2011, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in a lifestyle center located in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Also, during the second quarter, we purchased an additional
noncontrolling interest in an unconsolidated mall.   

              During
the third quarter of 2011 we contributed a wholly-owned property to a joint venture which holds our interests in nine unconsolidated properties. The transaction effectively
exchanged a portion of our interest in this previously wholly-owned property for increased ownership interests in the nine unconsolidated properties. This transaction had no material impact on the
statement of operations.   

2010 Acquisitions      

During 2010, we acquired a controlling interest in a previously unconsolidated mall which resulted in a remeasurement of our previously
held equity interest to fair value and corresponding gain of approximately $13.0 million. This gain is included in gain upon acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and
interests in unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on investment in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

              On
August 30, 2010, we completed the Prime acquisition, adding 21 outlet centers, including a center located in Puerto Rico, which was acquired on May 13, 2010. The transaction was
valued at approximately $2.3 billion, including the assumption of existing mortgage indebtedness of $1.2 billion and the repayment of $310.7 million of preexisting mortgage loans at closing. We paid
consideration comprised of 80% cash and 20% in units of the Operating Partnership. We issued approximately 1.7 million units with an issuance date fair value of approximately $154.5 million. We funded
the cash portion of this acquisition through draws on our unsecured revolving credit facility.   

              We
recorded our acquisition of these 21 outlet centers using the acquisition method of accounting. Tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were established based on their
estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The results of operations of the acquired properties have been included in our consolidated results from the date of acquisition. The purchase price
allocations were finalized during the second quarter of 2011.   

On
May 28, 2010, we acquired an additional interest of approximately 19% in Houston Galleria, located in Houston, Texas thereby increasing our noncontrolling interest from 31.5% to
50.4%.   

  109  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions and Dispositions (Continued)     

2012 Dispositions      

During 2012, we disposed of our interest in eight consolidated retail properties and four unconsolidated retail properties. Our share
of the net gain on these disposals was $15.5 million. In addition, during the first quarter of 2012, we sold one of our retail properties with a carrying value of $115.0 million for nominal
consideration and the assumption of the related mortgage debt of $115.0 million by the acquirer.   

On
May 3, 2012, we sold our investment in two residential apartment buildings located at The Domain in Austin, Texas. Our share of the gain from the sale was $12.4 million, which is
included in other income in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

              On
January 9, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we sold our entire ownership interest in GCI to our venture partner, Auchan S.A.   

2011 Dispositions      

During 2011, we agreed to dispose of consolidated properties that had an aggregate carrying value of $355.4 million and debt
obligations of $177.0 million for aggregate sales proceeds of $136.0 million resulting in a net loss of $42.4 million.   

2010 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we disposed of three retail properties with an aggregate carrying value of $91.4 million and
debt obligations of $91.3 million for which we received aggregate sale proceeds of $5.8 million. The net gain on these disposals was $5.7 million.   

    5.    Per Share Data     

We determine basic earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and we consider any participating securities
for
purposes of applying the two-class method. We determine diluted earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding combined with the incremental weighted
average shares that would have been outstanding assuming all dilutive potential common shares were converted into shares at the earliest date possible. The following table sets forth the computation
of our basic and diluted earnings per share.   

110  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    5.    Per Share Data (Continued)    

              For
the year ended December 31, 2012, potentially dilutive securities include stock options, units that are exchangeable for common stock and long-term incentive performance, or LTIP,
units granted under our long-term incentive performance programs that are convertible into units and exchangeable for common stock. The only securities that had a dilutive effect for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 were stock options.   

              We
accrue dividends when they are declared. The taxable nature of the dividends declared for each of the years ended as indicated is summarized as
follows:  

On
February 1, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.15 per share of common stock payable on February 28, 2013 to stockholders of record on
February 14, 2013.   

    6.    Investment Properties     

Investment properties consist of the following as of December 31:   

7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities     

Joint ventures are common in the real estate industry. We use joint ventures to finance properties, develop new properties, and diversify our risk in a particular property or
portfolio
of properties. We held joint venture ownership interests in 78 properties in the United States as of December 31, 2012 and 87 properties as of December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we also
held interests in eight joint venture properties in Japan, two joint venture properties in South Korea, one joint venture property in Mexico, and one joint venture property in Malaysia. We account for
these joint venture properties using the equity method of accounting. As discussed below, on January 9, 2012, we sold our interest in GCI which at the time owned 45 properties in Italy. Additionally,
on March 14, 2012, we purchased a 28.7% equity stake in Kl pierre. On May 21, 2012, Kl pierre paid a dividend, which we elected to receive in additional shares, resulting
in an increase in our ownership to approximately 28.9%.   

              Certain
of our joint venture properties are subject to various rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, put and call rights, or other sale or marketing rights for partners which
are customary in real estate joint venture agreements and the industry. We and our partners in these joint ventures may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar
restrictions), which may result in either the sale of our interest or the use of available cash or   

  111  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

  borrowings,
or the use of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, to acquire the joint venture interest from our partner.   

              On
December 31, 2012, we formed a joint venture with Institutional Mall Investors, or IMI, to own and operate The Shops at Mission Viejo in the Los Angeles suburb of Mission Viejo,
California, and Woodfield Mall in the Chicago suburb of Schaumburg, Illinois. As of December 31, 2012, we and IMI each own a noncontrolling 50% interest in Woodfield Mall and we own a noncontrolling
51% interest in The Shops at Mission Viejo and IMI owns the remaining 49%. Prior to the formation of the joint venture, we owned 100% of The Shops at Mission Viejo and IMI owned 100% of Woodfield
Mall. No gain was recorded as the transaction was recorded based on the carryover basis of our previous investment. Woodfield Mall is encumbered by a $425 million mortgage loan which matures in March
of 2024 and bears interest at 4.5%. In January 2013, the joint venture closed a $295 million mortgage on the Shops at Mission Viejo which bears interest at 3.61% and matures in February of 2023.   

On
March 22, 2012, we acquired, through an acquisition of substantially all of the assets of The Mills Limited Partnership, or TMLP, additional interests in 26 properties. The
transaction resulted in additional interests in 16 of the properties which remain unconsolidated, the consolidation of nine previously unconsolidated properties and the purchase of the remaining
noncontrolling interest in a previously consolidated property. The transaction was valued at $1.5 billion, which included repayment of the remaining $562.1 million balance on TMLP's senior loan
facility, and retirement of $100.0 million of TMLP's trust preferred securities. In connection with the transaction, our $558.4 million loan to SPG-FCM was extinguished on a non-cash basis. We
consolidated $2.6 billion in additional property-level mortgage debt in connection with this transaction. This property-level mortgage debt was previously presented as debt of our unconsolidated
entities. We and our joint venture partner had equal ownership in these properties prior to the transaction.   

              The
consolidation of the previously unconsolidated properties resulted in a remeasurement of our previously held interest in each of these nine newly consolidated properties to fair
value and recognition of a corresponding non-cash gain of $488.7 million. In addition, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $22.4 million for the excess of carrying value of our
remaining investment in SPG-FCM over its estimated fair value. The gain on the transaction and impairment charge are included in gain upon acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of
assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on investment in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.
The assets and liabilities of the newly consolidated properties acquired in the Mills transaction have been reflected at their estimated fair value at the acquisition date.   

              We
recorded our acquisition of the interest in the nine newly consolidated properties using the acquisition method of accounting. Tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were
established based on their fair values at the date of acquisition. The results of operations of the newly consolidated properties have been included in our consolidated results from the date of
acquisition. The purchase price allocations are preliminary and subject to revision within the measurement period, not to exceed one year from the date of acquisition.   

              The
table below summarizes the amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as purchase accounting adjustments made from the original allocations
at the date of acquisition for the nine newly consolidated properties. We amortize these amounts over the estimated life of the related depreciable components
of investment property, typically no greater than 40 years, the terms of the applicable leases and the applicable debt maturity. The adjusted allocations did not have a material impact on the
quarterly or annual results of operations or on our financial position at December 31, 2012. In addition to the below, we have recorded approximately $1 billion of investment in the 16 properties
which remained unconsolidated at the acquisition date.   

  112  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

Preliminary 
Allocations    

(in millions)    

Investment properties  
     
  $  
  4,228  

Cash and cash equivalents  

91  

Tenant Receivables and accrued revenue, net  

1  

Deferred costs and other assets (including intangibles)  

264  

Total Assets   
     
  $  
  4,584  

Mortgages and other indebtedness, including premiums  
     
  $  
  2,672  

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and other  

164  

Other Liabilities  

6  

Total Liabilities   
     
  $  
  2,842  

On
January 6, 2012, we paid $50.0 million to acquire an additional interest in Del Amo Fashion Center, thereby increasing our interest to 50%.   

              On
December 31, 2011, as further discussed in Note 4, we and our joint venture partner dissolved a venture in which we had a 50% interest and distributed a portfolio of properties
previously held within the venture to us and our joint venture partner. The results of operations of these properties are now presented as loss from operations of discontinued joint venture interests
and the non-cash gain of $168.3 million recorded upon distribution to the partners is presented within (loss) gain on sale or disposal of discontinued operations, net in the "Summary Financial
Information" below.   

     Loan to SPG-FCM      

              As discussed above, our loan to SPG-FCM was extinguished in the Mills transaction. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded
approximately $2.0 million, $9.8 million and $9.9 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to this loan, respectively.   

International Investments      

              We conduct our international operations through joint venture arrangements and account for all of our international joint venture
investments using the equity method of accounting   

                 European Investments.        At December 31, 2012, we owned 57,634,148 shares, or approximately 28.9%, of
Kl pierre, which had a quoted
market price of $39.67 per share. At the date of purchase on March 14, 2012, our excess investment in Kl pierre was approximately $1.2 billion, of which substantially all has been
allocated to the underlying investment property based on estimated fair value. The allocation is subject to revision within the measurement period, not to exceed one year from the date of acquisition.
Our share of net income, net of amortization of our excess investment, was $0.5 million from the acquisition date through December 31, 2012. Based on applicable Euro:USD exchange rates and after our
conversion of Kl pierre's results to GAAP, Kl pierre's total assets, total liabilities, and noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2012 were $17.2 billion, $12.4
billion, and $1.9 billion, respectively, and Kl pierre's total revenues, operating income and consolidated net income were approximately $1.1 billion, $394.7 million and $323.6 million,
respectively, for the period of our ownership in 2012.   

At
December 31, 2011, we had a 49% ownership interest in GCI. On January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership interest in GCI to our venture partner, Auchan S.A. The aggregate cash we
received was $375.8 million and we recognized a gain on the sale of $28.8 million. Our investment carrying value included $39.5 million of accumulated losses related to currency translation and net
investment hedge accumulated balances which had been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

  113  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

Asian Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in Japan through a joint
venture with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. We
have a 40% ownership interest in this joint venture. The carrying amount of our
investment in this joint venture was $314.2 million and $349.5 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, including all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss). We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in South Korea through a joint venture with Shinsegae International Co. We have a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture. The
carrying amount of our investment in this joint venture was $62.9 million and $43.8 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, including all related components of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).   

     Summary Financial Information      

              A summary of our investments in joint ventures and share of income from such joint ventures, excluding Kl pierre,
follows. The accompanying joint venture statements of operations include amounts related to our investments in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l. which was sold on July 15, 2010 and GCI which was
sold on January 9, 2012. In addition, we acquired additional controlling interests in King of Prussia on August 25, 2011, and nine properties in the Mills transaction on March 22, 2012. These
previously unconsolidated properties became consolidated properties as of their respective acquisition dates. Additionally, on December 31, 2011, we and our joint venture partner dissolved a venture
in which we had a 50% interest and distributed a portfolio of properties previously held within the venture to us and our joint venture partner. Finally, during 2012, we disposed of our interests in
one mall and three non-core retail properties. The results of operations of the properties for all of these transactions are classified as loss from operations of discontinued joint venture interests
in the accompanying joint venture statements of operations. Balance sheet information for the joint ventures is as follows:   

114  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

              "Excess
Investment" represents the unamortized difference of our investment over our share of the equity in the underlying net assets of the joint ventures or other
investments acquired and is allocated on a fair value basis primarily to investment property, lease related intangibles, and debt premiums and discounts. We amortize excess investment over the life of
the related depreciable components of investment property, typically no greater than 40 years, the terms of the applicable leases and the applicable debt maturity, respectively. The amortization is
included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.   

              As
of December 31, 2012, scheduled principal repayments on joint venture properties' mortgages and other indebtedness are as follows:   

115  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

              This
debt becomes due in installments over various terms extending through 2034 with interest rates ranging from 0.48% to 9.35% and a weighted average rate of 5.06% at
December 31, 2012.   

Our
share of income from unconsolidated entities in the above table, aggregated with our share of results of Kl pierre, is presented in Income from
unconsolidated entities in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Our share of the loss (gain) on sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated
entities, net is reflected within gain upon acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on investment in
unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2012 Dispositions      

In July 2012, we disposed of our interest in an unconsolidated mall, and in August 2012 we disposed of our interest in three other
non-core unconsolidated properties. Our share of the net loss on disposition was $9.2 million.   

  116  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

2011 Dispositions      

In April 2011, we disposed of our interest in an unconsolidated mall, resulting in a gain of $7.8 million.   

2010 Impairment      

In December 2010, we recognized an $8.2 million non-cash impairment charge representing our share of impairment on a joint venture
investment in a property in Italy for which the decline in value below our carrying amount was deemed other-than-temporary.   

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments     

Our mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the impact of derivative instruments, consist of the following as of December 31:   

General.        Our unsecured debt agreements contain financial covenants and other non-financial covenants. If
we were to fail to comply with these
covenants, after the expiration of the applicable cure periods, the debt maturity could be accelerated or other remedies could be sought by the lender including adjustments to the applicable interest
rate. As of December 31, 2012, we are in compliance with all covenants of our unsecured debt.   

At
December 31, 2012, we or our subsidiaries were the borrowers under 78 non-recourse mortgage notes secured by mortgages on 78 properties, including seven separate pools of
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 27 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the cross-defaulted pool may
constitute a default under all mortgages within that pool and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the pool. Certain of our secured debt instruments contain
financial and other non-financial covenants which are specific to the properties which serve as collateral for that debt. If the borrower fails to comply with these covenants, the lender could
accelerate the debt and enforce its right against their collateral. At December 31, 2012, the applicable borrowers under these non-recourse mortgage notes were in compliance with all covenants where
non-compliance could individually, or giving effect to applicable
cross-default provisions in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

  117  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)     

     Unsecured Debt      

              At December 31, 2012, our unsecured debt consisted of $13.4 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating Partnership, $1.3
billion outstanding under our $4.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility, and $259.2 million outstanding under our $2.0 billion supplemental unsecured revolving credit
facility, or Supplemental Facility. The December 31, 2012 balance on the Credit Facility included $1.2 billion (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Euro-denominated borrowings and the entire balance on the
Supplemental Facility on such date consisted of Yen-denominated borrowings, both of which are designated as net investment hedges of a portion of our international investments.   

              On
December 31, 2012, we had an aggregate available borrowing capacity of $4.4 billion under the two credit facilities. The maximum outstanding balance of the credit facilities during
the year ended December 31, 2012 was $3.1 billion and the weighted average outstanding balance was $1.9 billion. Letters of credit of $45.2 million were outstanding under the Credit Facility as of
December 31, 2012.   

              The
Credit Facility's initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion can be increased at our sole option to $5.0 billion during its term. The Credit Facility will initially mature on
October 30, 2015 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. The base interest rate on the Credit Facility is LIBOR plus 100 basis points with an additional facility fee of 15 basis
points. In addition, the Credit Facility provides for a money market competitive bid option program that allows us to hold auctions to achieve lower pricing for short-term borrowings. The Credit
Facility also includes a $2.0 billion multi-currency tranche.   

              On
June 1, 2012, we entered into the Supplemental Facility with an initial borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion which can be increased at our sole option to $2.5 billion during its term.
The Supplemental Facility will initially mature on June 30, 2016 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. The base interest rate on the Supplemental Facility is LIBOR plus 100
basis points with an additional facility fee of 15 basis points. Like the Credit Facility, the Supplemental Facility provides for a money market competitive bid option program and allows for
multi-currency borrowings. During the second quarter of 2012, we moved $285.0 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings from the Credit Facility to the Supplemental Facility.   

              On
March 13, 2012, the Operating Partnership issued $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.15% with a maturity date of September 2017, $600.0 million of
senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 3.375% with a maturity date of March 2022, and $550.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 4.75% with a maturity date of
March 2042. Proceeds from the unsecured notes offerings were used to fund a portion of the cost of the acquisition of our equity stake in Kl pierre and the Mills transaction.   

              On
December 17, 2012, the Operating Partnership issued $750.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 1.50% with a maturity date of February 2018 and $500.0
million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.75% with a maturity date of February 2023. Proceeds from the unsecured notes offerings were used to pay down borrowings on the Credit
Facility and fund general working capital requirements.   

              During
2012, we redeemed at par $231.0 million of senior unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 5.75% to 6.88%.   

On
November 1, 2011, we entered into a $900.0 million unsecured term loan. We drew $160.0 million on the term loan in the first quarter of 2012. In the second quarter of 2012, we repaid
the outstanding balance in full and terminated the term loan.   

  118  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

     Secured Debt      

              Total secured indebtedness was $8.0 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. During 2012, we repaid $536.2
million in mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of 3.95%, unencumbering 19 properties, and repaid the outstanding balance of a $735.0 million secured term loan in full.   

              As
a result of the acquisition of additional interests in properties in the Mills transaction in March 2012, as further discussed in Note 7, we consolidated nine properties encumbered
by property-level mortgage debt totaling $2.6 billion. This property-level mortgage debt was previously presented as debt of our unconsolidated entities. We and our joint venture partner had equal
ownership in these properties prior to the transaction.   

     Debt Maturity and Other      

              Our scheduled principal repayments on indebtedness as of December 31, 2012 are as follows:   

Our
cash paid for interest in each period, net of any amounts capitalized, was as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage exposure to
interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are also exposed to
foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the derivative contracts
hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. Upon completion of the debt issuance, the fair value of these instruments is recorded as part of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

The
fair value of our interest rate swap agreements is a net liability balance of $1.5 million and $10.0 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and is included in other
liabilities. The interest rate cap agreements were of nominal value at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and we generally do not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements. In addition, the unamortized
loss of our treasury locks and terminated hedges recorded in accumulated other   

  119  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

comprehensive
income (loss) was $78.0 million and $89.7 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, our outstanding LIBOR based derivative contracts consisted
of:  

interest rate cap protection agreements with a notional amount of $442.4 million which mature in July 2013 and June 2014,
and   
           fixed rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $483.7 million which have a weighted average fixed pay rate of 2.52%
and a weighted average variable receive rate of 0.58%.    

Within
the next year, we expect to reclassify to earnings approximately $13.2 million of losses related to active and terminated interest rate swaps from the current balance held in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The amount of ineffectiveness relating to cash flow hedges recognized in income during the periods presented was not significant.   

              Our
joint ventures may also enter into interest rate swaps or caps, which are recorded at fair value on the joint venture balance sheets. Included in our accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 is our share of the joint ventures' accumulated derivative losses of $0.4 million and $14.0 million, respectively.   

     Fair Value of Debt      

              The carrying value of our variable-rate mortgages and other loans approximates their fair values. We estimate the fair values of
consolidated fixed-rate mortgages using cash flows discounted at current borrowing rates and other indebtedness using cash flows discounted at current market rates. We estimate the fair values of
consolidated fixed-rate unsecured notes using quoted market prices, or, if no quoted market prices are available, we use quoted market prices for securities with similar terms and maturities. The book
value of our consolidated fixed-rate mortgages and other indebtedness was $21.0 billion and $15.9 billion as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The fair values of these financial instruments
and the related discount rate assumptions as of December 31 are summarized as follows:   

9.    Rentals under Operating Leases     

Future minimum rentals to be received under non-cancelable tenant operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter, excluding tenant reimbursements of operating
expenses
and percentage rent based on tenant sales volume as of December 31, 2012 are as follows:   

Approximately
0.6% of future minimum rents to be received are attributable to leases with an affiliate of a limited partner in the Operating Partnership.   

  120  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity     

Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify excess common stock into one or more additional classes and series of capital stock, to establish the number of shares in each
class
or series and to fix the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, and qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption of such class or
series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of additional classes or series of capital stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
control of us without further action of the stockholders. The ability to issue additional classes or series of capital stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and
other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock.   

Holders
of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, other than for the election of directors. The
holders of our Class B common stock have the right to elect up to four members of the Board of Directors. All 8,000 outstanding shares of the Class B common stock are subject to two voting trusts as
to which Herbert Simon and David Simon are the trustees. Shares of Class B common stock convert automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock upon the occurrence of certain events and
can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders.   

Common Stock Issuances      

              In 2012, we issued 921,676 shares of common stock to 31 limited partners in exchange for an equal number of units pursuant to the
partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership.   

              In
addition, we issued 5,873,620 shares of common stock to The Melvin Simon Family Enterprises Trust in exchange for 6,526,245 units on September 25, 2012.   

              We
issued 712 shares of common stock related to employee stock options exercised during 2012. We used the net proceeds from the option exercises to acquire additional units in the
Operating Partnership.   

              On
March 14, 2012, we issued 9,137,500 shares of common stock in a public offering at a price of $137.00 per share. Proceeds of $1.2 billion from the offering, net of issue costs, were
used to fund a portion of the acquisition cost of our equity stake in Kl pierre and the Mills transaction.   

              On
July 20, 2012, the Operating Partnership redeemed 2,000,000 units from a limited partner for $124.00 per unit in cash.   

On
December 4, 2012, the Operating Partnership issued 205,335 units in connection with the acquisition of the remaining 50% noncontrolling interest in two outlet properties as discussed
in Note 4.   

    Temporary Equity     

              We classify as temporary equity those securities for which there is the possibility that we could be required to redeem the security
for cash irrespective of the probability of such a possibility. As a result, we classify one series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interests in
properties in temporary equity. Each of these securities is discussed further below.   

Limited Partners' Preferred Interest in the Operating Partnership and Noncontrolling Redeemable Interests in Properties.     The following
table summarizes the preferred units of the Operating Partnership and the amount of the noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties as of December 31. The redemption features of the preferred
units of the Operating Partnership contain provisions which could require us to settle the redemption in cash. As a result, this series of preferred units in the Operating Partnership remains
classified outside permanent equity. The remaining interest in a property or portfolio of properties which are redeemable at the option of the holder or in circumstances that may be outside our
control, are accounted for as temporary equity within limited partners' preferred interest in   

  121  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

  the
Operating Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is adjusted to the
redemption amount assuming the instrument is redeemable at the balance sheet date. Changes in the redemption value of the underlying noncontrolling interest are recorded within accumulated deficit.
There are no noncontrolling interests redeemable at amounts in excess of fair value.   

7.50% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $7.50 annually.
The Operating Partnership may redeem the preferred units on or after November 10, 2013, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain tax triggering events such as death of the initial holder, or the
transfer of any units to any person or entity other than the persons or entities entitled to the benefits of the original holder. The redemption price is the liquidation value ($100.00 per preferred
unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions, payable either in cash or fully registered shares of our common stock at our election. In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred units, the
occurrence of certain tax triggering events applicable to the holder, or on or after November 10, 2006, the holder may require the Operating Partnership to redeem the preferred units at the same
redemption price payable at the option of the Operating Partnership in either cash or shares of common stock.   

    Permanent Equity     

Preferred Stock.        Dividends on all series of preferred stock are calculated based upon the preferred
stock's preferred return multiplied by the
preferred stock's corresponding liquidation value. The Operating Partnership pays preferred distributions to us equal to the dividends we pay on the preferred stock issued.   

                 Series J 8 3 / 8 % Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        Dividends accrue
quarterly at an annual rate of
8 3 / 8 % per share. We can redeem this series, in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2027 at a redemption price of $50.00 per share, plus accumulated and
unpaid dividends. This preferred stock was issued at a premium of $7.5 million. The unamortized premium included in the carrying value of the preferred stock at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $4.9
million and $5.2 million, respectively.   

    Other Equity Activity     

                 Notes Receivable from Former CPI Stockholders.        Notes receivable of $15.3 million from stockholders of an
entity we acquired in 1998 are reflected as
a deduction from capital in excess of par value in the consolidated statements of equity in the accompanying financial statements. The notes do not bear interest and become due at the time the
underlying shares are sold.   

                 The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.        This plan, or the 1998 plan, provides for the grant
of equity-based awards in the form of options
to purchase shares, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock grants and performance unit awards. Options may be granted which are qualified as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code and options which are not so qualified. An aggregate of 17,300,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the 1998 plan. Additionally,
the partnership agreement requires us to purchase units for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares.   

  122  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

                 Administration.        The 1998 plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors,
or the Compensation Committee. The
Compensation Committee determines which eligible individuals may participate and the type, extent and terms of the awards to be granted to them. In addition, the Compensation Committee interprets the
1998 plan and makes all other determinations deemed advisable for its administration. Options granted to employees become exercisable over the period determined by the Compensation Committee. The
exercise price of an employee option may not be less than the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. Employee options generally vest over a three-year period and expire ten years from
the date of grant.   

                 Awards for Eligible Directors.        Directors who are not also our employees or employees of our affiliates
are eligible to receive awards under the 1998
plan. Currently, each eligible director receives on the first day of the first calendar month following his or her initial election an award of restricted stock with a value of $82,500 (pro-rated for
partial years of service). Thereafter, as of the date of each annual meeting of stockholders, eligible directors who are re-elected receive an award of restricted stock having a value of $82,500. In
addition, eligible directors who serve as chairpersons of the standing committees receive an additional annual award of restricted stock having a value of $10,000 (in the case of the Audit and
Compensation Committees) or $7,500 (in the case of the Governance and Nominating Committees). The Lead Independent Director also receives an annual restricted stock award having a value of $12,500.
The restricted stock vests in full after one year.   

              Once
vested, the delivery of the shares of restricted stock (including reinvested dividends) is deferred under our Director Deferred Compensation Plan until the director retires, dies
or becomes disabled or otherwise no longer serves as a director. The directors may vote and are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares; however, any dividends on the shares of
restricted stock must be reinvested in shares of common stock and held in the deferred compensation plan until the shares of restricted stock are delivered to the former director.   

Stock Based Compensation     

              Awards under our stock based compensation plans primarily take the form of LTIP units and restricted stock grants. These awards are all
performance based and are based on various corporate and business unit performance measures as further described below. In the aggregate, we recorded compensation expense, net of capitalization,
related to these stock based compensation arrangements of approximately $31.8 million, $26.2 million, and $21.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which is
included within home and regional office costs and general and administrative costs in the accompanying statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

LTIP Programs.        On March 16, 2010, the Compensation Committee approved three long-term, performance based
incentive compensation programs, or the 2010
LTIP programs, for certain senior executive officers. Awards under the LTIP programs take the form of LTIP units, a form of limited partnership interest issued by the Operating Partnership, and will
be considered earned if, and only to the extent to which, applicable total shareholder return, or TSR, performance benchmarks, as defined, are achieved during the performance period. Once earned, LTIP
units will become the equivalent of units only after a two year service-based vesting period, beginning after the end of the performance period. Awarded LTIP units not earned are forfeited. During the
performance period, participants are entitled to receive on the LTIP units awarded to them distributions equal to 10% of the regular quarterly distributions paid on a unit of the Operating
Partnership. As a result, we account for these LTIP units as participating securities under the two-class method of computing earnings per share. The 2010 LTIP programs had one, two and three year
performance periods, which ended on December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. In the first quarter of 2011, the Compensation Committee determined the extent to which the performance measures
were achieved and 133,673 LTIP units were earned under the one-year 2010 LTIP program and, pursuant to the award agreements, will vest in two equal installments in 2012 and 2013. In the first quarter
of 2012, the Compensation Committee determined the extent to which the performance measures were achieved and 337,006 LTIP units were earned under the two-year 2010 LTIP program and, pursuant to the
award agreements, will vest in two equal installments in 2013 and 2014.   

  123  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

              During
July 2011, the Compensation Committee approved a new three-year long-term performance based incentive compensation program, or the 2011-2013 LTIP program, and awarded LTIP units
to certain senior executive officers. The 2011-2013 LTIP program has a three year performance period ending on December 31, 2013. During March 2012, the Compensation Committee approved a three-year
long-term performance based incentive compensation program, or the 2012-2014 LTIP program, and awarded LTIP units to certain senior executive officers. The 2012-2014 LTIP program has a three year
performance period ending December 31, 2014 and will be considered earned if, and only to the extent to which, applicable TSR performance benchmarks are achieved during the performance period.
One-half of the earned LTIP units will vest on January 1 of each of the second and third years following the end of the applicable performance period, subject to the participant maintaining employment
with us through those dates.   

              The
2010 LTIP program awards have an aggregate grant date fair value, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, of $7.2 million for the one-year program, $14.8 million for the two-year
program and $23.0 million for the three-year program. Both the 2011-2013 LTIP program and 2012-2014 LTIP program have aggregate grant date fair values of $35.0 million, adjusted for estimated
forfeitures. Grant date fair values were estimated based upon the results of a Monte Carlo model, and the resulting expense will be recorded regardless of whether the TSR benchmarks are achieved, if
the required service is delivered throughout the performance period. The grant date fair values are being amortized into expense over the period from the grant date to the date at which the awards, if
any, become vested.   

                 Restricted Stock.        The 1998 plan also provides for shares of restricted stock to be granted to certain
employees at no cost to those employees,
subject to achievement of certain financial and return-based performance measures established by the Compensation Committee related to the most recent year's performance. Once granted, the
shares of restricted stock then vest annually over a three or four-year period (equally each year) beginning on January 1 of each year. The cost of restricted stock grants, which is based upon the
stock's fair market value on the grant date, is charged to earnings ratably over the vesting period. Through December 31, 2012 a total of 5,340,313 shares of restricted stock, net of forfeitures, have
been awarded under the plan. Information regarding restricted stock awards is summarized in the following table for each of the years presented:   

Other Compensation Arrangements.        On July 6, 2011, in connection with the execution of a long-term
employment agreement, the Compensation Committee
granted David Simon, our Chairman and CEO, a retention award in the form of 1,000,000 LTIP units for his continued service as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer through July 5, 2019. The award
vests in one-third increments on July 5th of 2017, 2018 and 2019, subject to continued employment. The grant date fair value of the retention award was $120.3 million which is being recognized as
expense over the eight-year term of his employment agreement on a straight-line basis.   

  124  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

10.    Equity (Continued)    

              Information
relating to employee options from December 31, 2009 through December 31, 2012 is as follows:   

(1)    Since
2001, we have not granted any options to officers, directors or employees, except for a series of reload options we assumed as part of a prior
business combination.    

All
1,567 options outstanding at December 31, 2012, are exercisable and have an exercise price of $50.17 and a weighted average life of 1.17 years.   

              We
also maintain a tax-qualified retirement 401(k) savings plan and offer no other post-retirement or post-employment benefits to our employees.   

     Exchange Rights      

              Limited partners in the Operating Partnership have the right to exchange all or any portion of their units for shares of common stock
on a one-for-one basis or cash, as determined by the Board of Directors. The amount of cash to be paid if the exchange right is exercised and the cash option is selected will be based on the trading
price of our common stock at that time. At December 31, 2012, we had reserved 58,151,188 shares of common stock for possible issuance upon the exchange of units, stock options and Class B common
stock.   

    11.    Commitments and Contingencies     

Litigation      

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including, but not
limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such litigation, claims and
administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can
be reasonably estimated.   

              In
May 2010, Opry Mills sustained significant flood damage. Insurance proceeds of $50 million have been funded by the insurers and remediation work has been completed. The property was
re-opened March 29, 2012. The excess insurance carriers (those providing coverage above $50 million) have denied the claim under the policy for additional proceeds (of up to $150 million) to pay
further amounts for restoration costs and business interruption losses. We and our lenders are continuing our efforts through pending litigation to recover our losses under the excess   

  125  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    11.    Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

  insurance
policies for Opry Mills and we believe recovery is probable, but no assurances can be made that our efforts to recover these funds will be successful.   

Lease Commitments      

              As of December 31, 2012, a total of 28 of the consolidated properties are subject to ground leases. The termination dates of these
ground leases range from 2013 to 2090. These ground leases generally require us to make fixed annual rental payments, or a fixed annual rental plus a percentage rent component based upon the revenues
or total sales of the property. Some of these leases also include escalation clauses and renewal options. We incurred ground lease expense, which is included in other expense, as follows:   

Future
minimum lease payments due under these ground leases for years ending December 31, excluding applicable extension options, are as follows:   

Insurance      

              We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third
party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies, Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd., or other financial arrangements controlled by
us. The third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through our
captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The current
federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate could
adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

     Guarantees of Indebtedness      

              Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by the joint venture property, which is non-recourse
to us. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Operating Partnership guaranteed joint venture related mortgage or other indebtedness of $84.9 million and $30.2 million, respectively. Mortgages
guaranteed by us are   

  126  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

11.    Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

  secured
by the property of the joint venture and that property could be sold in order to satisfy the outstanding obligation.   

     Concentration of Credit Risk      

              Our malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, and community/lifestyle centers rely heavily upon anchor tenants to attract customers; however,
anchor retailers do not contribute materially to our financial results as many anchor retailers own their spaces. All material operations are within the United States and no customer or tenant
accounts for 5% or more of our consolidated revenues.   

     Limited Life Partnerships      

              We are the controlling partner in several consolidated partnerships that have a limited life. We estimated the settlement values of
these noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 as approximately $143 million and $140 million, respectively. The settlement values are based on the estimated fair values upon a
hypothetical liquidation of the partnership interests and estimated yield maintenance or prepayment penalties associated with the payment to settle any underlying secured mortgage debt.   

    12.    Related Party Transactions     

Our management company provides management, insurance, and other services to Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., a related party, unconsolidated joint ventures, and other
non-owned
properties. Amounts for services provided by our management company and its affiliates to our unconsolidated joint ventures and other related parties were as follows:   

During
2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded interest income of $2.0 million, $9.8 million and $9.9 million, respectively, net of inter-entity eliminations, related to the loans that we have
provided to TMLP and SPG-FCM. In addition, during 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded development, royalty and other fees related to our international investments of $15.5 million, $12.3 million, and
$10.8 million, respectively, which is included in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

  127  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    13.    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)     

Quarterly 2012 and 2011 data is summarized in the table below. Quarterly amounts may not sum to annual amounts due to rounding.   

128  

QuickLinks    
  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-13.1>
 6
 a2212760zf5_ex-131.pdf
 EX-13.1

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 7
 a2212760zex-21_1.htm
 EX-21.1

Exhibit 21.1     

    List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property     

Subsidiary

Jurisdiction    

Simon Property Group, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

The Retail Property Trust  
     
  Massachusetts  

Simon Property Group (Illinois), L.P.   
     
  Illinois  

Simon Property Group (Texas), L.P.   
     
  Texas  

Shopping Center Associates  
     
  New York  

Simon Capital Limited Partnership  
     
  Delaware  

M.S. Management Associates, Inc.   
     
  Delaware  

Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd.   
     
  Bermuda  

Marigold Indemnity, Ltd.   
     
  Delaware  

Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd.   
     
  Bermuda  

Simon Business Network, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Brand Ventures, LLC  
     
  Indiana  

Simon Global Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

Simon Services, Inc.   
     
  Delaware  

Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

SPGGC, LLC  
     
  Virginia  

Kravco Simon Investments, L.P.   
     
  Pennsylvania  

SPG ML Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Management Associates II, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Management Associates, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

CPG Partners, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

Prime Retail, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

SPG Mayflower, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon KP I S.a.r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg  

Simon KP II S.a.r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg  

Simon-Mills I, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon-Mills II, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon-Mills III, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

SPG-FCM II, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

SPG-FCM III, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Omits names of subsidiaries that as of December 31, 2012 were not, in the aggregate, a "significant subsidiary."   

  129  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-21.1>
 8
 a2212760zf7_ex-211.pdf
 EX-21.1

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 a2212760zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1     

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property
Group, Inc. of our reports dated February 28, 2013 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, included in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders of Simon Property Group, Inc.   

              Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries listed in Item 15. This schedule is the responsibility of Simon
Property Group, Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date is February 28, 2013, the financial statement
schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   

              We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

(1)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-179874) of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      (2)    Registration
Statement (Form S-4 No. 333-118427) of Simon Property Group, Inc;
      (3)    Registration
Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 333-64313, 333-101185 and 333-183213) pertaining to the
Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan;
      (4)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-82471) pertaining to the Simon Property Group and Adopting Entities Matching
Savings Plan; and
      (5)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63919) pertaining to the Corporate Property Investors, Inc. and
Corporate Realty Consultants, Inc. Employee Share Purchase Plan;    

of
our reports dated February 28, 2013 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, both incorporated by reference herein, and our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial
statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property Group, Inc. for the year ended
December 31, 2012.   

130  

QuickLinks    
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 a2212760zf9_ex-231.pdf
 EX-23.1

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a2212760zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1     

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities   Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I,
David Simon, certify that:   

              1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;   

              2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

              4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:   

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

              b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

              c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

              d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

              b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.   

Date: February 28, 2013  

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer  

131  

QuickLinks    
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 a2212760zf11_ex-311.pdf
 EX-31.1

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 a2212760zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2     

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities   Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I,
Stephen E. Sterrett, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
for the registrant and have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date: February 28, 2013  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

132  

QuickLinks    
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 a2212760zf13_ex-312.pdf
 EX-31.2

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 15
 a2212760zex-32.htm
 EX-32

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32     

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

In connection with the Annual Report of Simon Property Group, Inc. ("Simon Property"), on
Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each of the undersigned, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Simon Property.    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer 
February 28, 2013  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Senior Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 
February 28, 2013  

133  

QuickLinks    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 16
 a2212760zf15_ex-32.pdf
 EX-32

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 spg-20121231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 spg-20121231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 spg-20121231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 spg-20121231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 spg-20121231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 22
 spg-20121231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

