<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150227_10-K_edgar_data_1063761_0001047469-15-001339_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>31273549</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>343815</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9500922</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5387987</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8929196</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6380562</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>75</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-15-001339.hdr.sgml : 20150227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150227060545
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-15-001339
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001063761
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				046268599
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14469
		FILM NUMBER:		15654881

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438
		BUSINESS PHONE:		317-636-1600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORPORATE PROPERTY INVESTORS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-15-001339.txt : 20150227

10-K
 1
 a2222982z10-k.htm
 10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document 
   TABLE OF CONTENTS   
   Part IV   

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     

   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014     

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Title of each class    
     
   Name of each exchange on which registered    

Common stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

8 3 / 8 % Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act).
Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.          

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller reporting company      

Indicate
by checkmark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12-b of the Act).
Yes        No       

              The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $51,280 million based on the closing sale
price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 30, 2014.   

As
of January 30, 2015, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 314,381,664 and 8,000 shares of common stock and Class B common stock outstanding, respectively.   

Documents Incorporated By Reference     

Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement in connection with its 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Annual Report on Form 10-K   December 31, 2014            

           TABLE OF CONTENTS            

Item No.    

Page No.    

Part I    

1.   
      
     Business   

3   

1A.   
     
    Risk Factors   

8   

1B.   
     
    Unresolved Staff Comments   

13   

2.   
     
    Properties   

14   

3.   
     
    Legal Proceedings   

40   

4.   
     
    Mine Safety Disclosures   

40   

Part II    

5.   
      
     Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

41   

6.   
     
    Selected Financial Data   

42   

7.   
     
    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

43   

7A.   
     
    Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk   

61   

8.   
     
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

62   

9.   
     
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

103   

9A.   
     
    Controls and Procedures   

103   

9B.   
     
    Other Information   

103   

Part III    

10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

104   

11.   
     
    Executive Compensation   

104   

12.   
     
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

104   

13.   
     
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence   

104   

14.   
     
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

104   

Part IV    

15.   
      
     Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules   

105   

Signatures      

106   

2  

Table of Contents    

Part I            

Item 1.    Business            

Simon Property Group, Inc., Simon or the Company, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. REITs will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue
to distribute not less than 100% of their taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate
properties and other assets. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets  and The Mills . As of December 31, 2014, we
owned or held an interest in 207 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 109 malls, 68 Premium Outlets, 13 Mills, three community centers, and 14 other
retail properties in 37 states and Puerto Rico. We have four outlets under development and have redevelopment and expansion projects, including the addition of anchors and big box tenants,
underway at more than 25 properties in the U.S. and Asia. Internationally, as of December 31, 2014, we had ownership interests in nine Premium Outlets in Japan, three Premium Outlets in
South Korea, two Premium Outlets in Canada, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. As of December 31, 2014, we had noncontrolling ownership interests in five outlet
properties in Europe through our joint venture with McArthurGlen. Of the five properties, two are located in Italy and one each is located in Austria, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom.
Additionally, as of December 31, 2014, we owned a 28.9% equity stake in Kl pierre SA, or Kl pierre, a publicly traded, Paris-based real estate company,
which owns, or has an interest in, shopping centers located in 13 countries in Europe.   

              On
May 28, 2014, as further discussed in Note 3 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements, we completed the spin-off of our interests in 98 properties
comprised of substantially all of our strip center business and our smaller enclosed malls to Washington Prime Group Inc., or Washington Prime, an independent, publicly traded REIT (now doing business
as WP GLIMCHER). The historical results of operations of the Washington Prime properties as well as the related assets and liabilities are presented as discontinued operations in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.   

              For
a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2014, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" of this Form 10-K.   

Other Policies     

              The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect
to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.   

Investment Policies      

While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may also provide secured financing to or invest in equity or debt securities of
other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage ownership limitations and gross income tests
necessary for REIT qualification. These REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75% of our total assets. We must also derive at
least 75% of our gross income directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents from real property," dividends from other REITs and, in
certain circumstances, interest from certain types of temporary investments. In addition, we must also derive at least 95% of our gross income from such real property
investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.   

Subject
to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be
in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire
all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.   

Financing Policies      

Because our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, we regularly access the debt markets to
raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance   

  3  

Table of Contents   

  maturing
debt. We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our ratio of debt to total assets or market value, as defined. For example, the Operating
Partnership's line of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants that restrict the total amount of debt of the Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in
relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related arrangement, and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements contain other covenants requiring compliance
with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for our equity securities and the debt securities
of the Operating Partnership. We strive to maintain investment grade ratings at all times, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future.   

If
our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital by offering equity or debt securities, creating joint ventures with existing ownership
interests in properties, entering into joint venture arrangements for new development projects, retaining cash flows or a combination of these methods. If the Board of Directors determines to raise
equity capital, it may, without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our
authorized capital in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also
may include additional classes of preferred stock, which may be convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any subsequent offering of our
securities. Any such offering could dilute a stockholder's investment in us.   

              We
expect most future borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the Operating
Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of
properties. Any such indebtedness may be secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or cross-collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or
partially guaranteed by the Operating Partnership. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly do so.   

              On
April 7, 2014, the Operating Partnership amended and extended its $4.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility. The Credit Facility's initial
borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion may be increased to $5.0 billion during its term. The initial maturity date of the Credit Facility was extended to June 30, 2018 and can be
extended for an additional year to June 30, 2019 at our sole option. The Operating Partnership also has an additional $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Supplemental
Facility, which may be increased to $2.5 billion during its term. The Supplemental Facility will initially mature on June 30, 2016 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole
option. We issue debt securities through the Operating Partnership, but we may issue our debt securities which may be convertible into capital stock or be accompanied by warrants to purchase capital
stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables.   

              On
October 6, 2014, the Operating Partnership established a global unsecured commercial paper note program, or the Commercial Paper program. Under the terms of the program, the
Operating Partnership may issue unsecured commercial paper notes, denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and other currencies, up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of
$500.0 million, or the non-U.S. dollar equivalent thereof. Notes issued in non-U.S. currencies may be issued by one or more subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership and are guaranteed by the
Operating Partnership. Our Commercial Paper program is supported by our credit facilities and if necessary or appropriate, we may make one or more draws under the credit facilities to pay amounts
outstanding from time to time on the Commercial Paper program.   

              We
may also finance our business through the following:  

issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock;   
            issuance of additional units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units;    
            issuance of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;   
            issuance of other securities including unsecured notes and mortgage debt;   
            draws on our credit facilities;   
            borrowings under the Commercial Paper program; or   
            sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties.    

The
Operating Partnership may also issue units to transferors of properties or other partnership interests which may permit the transferor to defer gain recognition for tax purposes.   

We
do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually limit additional
indebtedness on such properties. Additionally, our   

  4  

Table of Contents   

  unsecured
credit facilities, unsecured note indentures and other contracts may limit our ability to borrow and contain limits on mortgage indebtedness we may incur.   

Typically,
we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining secured permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage
loan on a single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage lien on the property or properties in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture
with a third party, or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities, which are common in the real
estate industry, are structured so that they would not be consolidated in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a parent company. We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms
then available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose
entities owning consolidated properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness.   

Conflict of Interest Policies      

We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted
governance principles governing the function, conduct, selection, orientation and duties of our Board of Directors and the Company, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of
the Board of Directors. In addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees and those of our subsidiaries. At least a majority of
the members of our Board of Directors must qualify as independent under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family who are
significant stockholders and/or unitholders in the Operating Partnership. In addition, the Audit and Compensation Committees of our Board of Directors are comprised of independent members who meet the
additional independence requirements of the NYSE. Any transaction between us and the Simons, including property acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space leases, must
be approved by a majority of our independent directors.   

              The
sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons or other of our limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order
to avoid any conflict of interest between us and the Simons, our charter requires that at least six of our independent directors must authorize and require the Operating Partnership to sell any
property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by Herbert Simon and David Simon contain covenants limiting their ability to
participate in certain shopping center activities.   

Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities      

We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT, unless the Board of Directors determines that it
is no longer in our best interests to so qualify as a REIT. The Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have
authority to offer shares of our capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may
issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us
from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we participate. Additionally, we may make or buy interests in loans for
real estate properties owned by others or make investments in companies that own real estate assets.   

Competition     

              The retail industry is dynamic and competitive. We compete with numerous merchandise distribution channels including malls, outlet
centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. We also compete with internet retailing sites and catalogs which provide
retailers with distribution options beyond existing brick and mortar retail properties. The existence of competitive alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and
on the level of rents we can obtain. This results in competition for both the tenants to occupy the properties that we develop and manage as well as for the acquisition of prime sites (including land
for development and operating properties). We believe that there are numerous factors that make our properties highly desirable to retailers
including:  

the quality, location and diversity of our properties;   
            our management and operational expertise;    
 
  5  

Table of Contents   

our extensive experience and relationships with retailers, lenders and suppliers; and    
            our mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances.    

Certain Activities     

              During the past three years, we have:  

issued 7,461,638 shares of common stock upon the exchange of 8,114,263 units of the Operating Partnership;    
            issued 304,698 restricted shares of common stock and 1,296,508 long-term incentive performance units, or LTIP units, net of
forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, or the 1998 Plan;   
            issued 760,485 units in exchange for the acquisition of a 100% interest in two outlet properties and the remaining interest in a
former joint venture property;   
            issued 9,137,500 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $137.00 per share;    
            redeemed 2,000,000 units for $124.00 per unit in cash;   
            amended and extended the Credit Facility in April 2014 to increase our borrowing capacity and extend its term;    
            entered into the Supplemental Facility in June 2012;   
            borrowed a maximum amount of $3.1 billion under the credit facilities; the outstanding amount of borrowings under the credit
facilities as of December 31, 2014 was $558.5 million, of which $372.2 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro-denominated borrowings and $186.4 million was
related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Yen-denominated borrowings;   
            established a global Commercial Paper program which provides a borrowing capacity of $500.0 million; the outstanding amount of
Commercial Paper notes as of December 31, 2014 was $409.2 million, of which $209.2 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro-denominated notes;   
            issued  750.0 million of unsecured notes on October 2, 2013 at a fixed interest rate of 2.375% with a
maturity date of October 2, 2020; as of December 31, 2014, the U.S. dollar equivalent was $912.1 million; and   
            provided annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and quarterly
reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders.    

Employees     

              At December 31, 2014, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,250 persons at various properties and offices
throughout the United States, of which approximately 1,850 were part-time. Approximately 1,100 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana.   

Corporate Headquarters     

              Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is
(317) 636-1600.   

Available Information     

              We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act)
and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the
Securities
and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge through the "About Simon/Investor
Relations/Financial Information" section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and
the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

              The
following corporate governance documents are also available through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance" section of our Internet website or may be obtained in
print form by request of our Investor   

  6  

Table of Contents   

  Relations
Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, and Executive
Committee Charter.   

              In
addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the SEC and the NYSE.   

Executive Officers of the Registrant     

              The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of February 27, 2015.   

Name

Age    
     
   Position    

David Simon  

53  
     
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard S. Sokolov  

65  
     
      President and Chief Operating Officer  

Andrew Juster  

62  
     
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

David J. Contis  

56  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President   President, Simon Malls  

John Rulli  

58  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer  

James M. Barkley  

63  
     
      General Counsel and Secretary  

Steven E. Fivel  

54  
     
      Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary  

Steven K. Broadwater  

48  
     
      Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  

Brian J. McDade  

35  
     
      Senior Vice President and Treasurer  

The
executive officers of Simon serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors except for David Simon and Richard S. Sokolov who are subject to employment agreements
which may call for certain payments upon termination.   

              Mr. Simon
has served as the Chairman of the Board of Simon since 2007 and Chief Executive Officer of Simon or its predecessor since 1995. Mr. Simon has also been a
director of Simon or its predecessor since its incorporation in 1993. Mr. Simon was the President of Simon's predecessor from 1993 to 1996. From 1988 to 1990, Mr. Simon was Vice
President of Wasserstein Perella   Company. From 1985 to 1988, he was an Associate at First Boston Corp. He is the son of the late Melvin Simon and the nephew of Herbert Simon.   

              Mr. Sokolov
has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Simon or its predecessor since 1996. Mr. Sokolov has also been a director of Simon or its predecessor
since 1996. Mr. Sokolov was President and Chief Executive Officer of DeBartolo Realty Corporation from its incorporation in 1994 until it merged with our predecessors in 1996.
Mr. Sokolov joined its predecessor, The Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, in 1982 as Vice President and General Counsel and was named Senior Vice President, Development and General Counsel in
1986.   

              Mr. Juster
serves as Simon's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Juster joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993
and thereafter has held various positions with Simon. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008 and Chief Financial Officer in December 2014.   

              Mr. Contis
is the Senior Executive Vice President and President of Simon Malls. Mr. Contis joined Simon in 2011. Prior to joining Simon, Mr. Contis served as the
President of Real Estate at Equity Group Investments, LLC. Mr. Contis has over 30 years of domestic and international real estate experience including 20 years overseeing both
public and private mall portfolios.   

              Mr. Rulli
serves as Simon's Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Rulli joined MSA in 1988 and held various positions with MSA and Simon
thereafter. Mr. Rulli became Chief Administrative Officer in 2007 and was promoted to Senior Executive Vice President in 2011.   

              Mr. Barkley
serves as Simon's General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Barkley joined Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, in 1978 as a staff attorney and was named
Assistant General Counsel in 1984. He was named General Counsel in 1992 and Secretary in 1993.   

              Mr. Fivel
serves as Simon's Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to rejoining Simon in 2011, Mr. Fivel served in a similar capacity with a large public
registrant. Mr. Fivel was previously employed by MSA from 1988 until 1993 and then by Simon from 1993 to 1996.   

              Mr. Broadwater
serves as Simon's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and prior to that as Simon's Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Broadwater
joined Simon in 2004 and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.   

              Mr. McDade
serves as Simon's Senior Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. McDade joined Simon in 2007 as the Director of Capital Markets and was promoted to Senior Vice
President of Capital Markets in 2013. Mr. McDade was promoted to Treasurer in December 2014.   

  7  

Table of Contents    

Item 1A.    Risk Factors            

The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in
forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which are currently not believed to be
material may also affect our actual results. We may update these factors in our future periodic reports.     

Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets     

We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.      

              As of December 31, 2014, our consolidated mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding related premium and discount, totaled
$20.8 billion. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our
debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property.
Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness,
the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.   

Disruption in the credit markets or downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our
ability to access external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements.      

              We depend on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet
ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. We cannot assure you
that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.   

Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.      

              The Operating Partnership's outstanding senior unsecured notes, the Commercial Paper program, and Simon's preferred stock are
periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other
factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of
any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund our growth, adverse changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.   

Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate
risk.      

              We selectively manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or
cap a portion of our variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be
successful.   

              Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging
agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.   

Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations     

We face risks associated with the acquisition, development, redevelopment and expansion of
properties.      

              We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, and these activities are subject to
various risks. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/expansion opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not
perform as well as   

  8  

Table of Contents   

  expected.
We are subject to other risks in connection with any acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the
following:  

construction costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;    
            we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance loans on favorable terms, if at all;    
            we may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;   
            occupancy rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and    
            we may need the consent of third parties such as department stores, anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and
those consents may be withheld.    

If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.   

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.      

              Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a
result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions may be limited. If we want to sell a property, we
cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment.   

Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated
with our domestic operations.      

              As of December 31, 2014, we held interests in joint venture properties that operate in Austria, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico,
the Netherlands, South Korea, Canada, and the United Kingdom. We also have an equity stake in Kl pierre, a publicly-traded European real estate company which operates in
13 countries in Europe. Accordingly, our operating results and the value of our international operations may be impacted by any unhedged movements in the foreign currencies in which those
operations transact and in which our net investment in the foreign operation is held. We may pursue additional expansion and development opportunities outside the United States. International
development and ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These risks
include:  

adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;   
            changes in foreign political and economic environments, regionally, nationally, and locally;    
            challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and litigation;    
            differing lending practices;   
            differences in cultures;   
            changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;    
            difficulties in managing international operations; and   
            obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.    

Our
international activities represented approximately 9.0% of our net operating income, or NOI, for the year ended December 31, 2014. To the extent that we expand our
international activities, the above risks could increase in significance, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   

Environmental Risks     

As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.      

              Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous
owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose
liability regardless of whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic   

  9  

Table of Contents   

  substances.
These laws and regulations may require the abatement or removal of asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property
and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Those laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store
waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain, or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center
establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our
results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate
contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.   

Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.      

              Although we believe that our portfolio is in substantial compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These
environmental audits have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
However, we cannot assure you that:  

existing environmental studies with respect to the portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities;    
            any previous owner, occupant or tenant of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;    
            the current environmental condition of the portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby
properties, or by other unrelated third parties; or   
            future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the
interpretation thereof) will not result in environmental liabilities.    

Retail Operations Risks     

Overall economic conditions may adversely affect the general retail environment.      

              Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally,
including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, increasing use of the
internet by retailers and consumers, consumer confidence, casualties and other natural disasters, and the potential for terrorist activities. The economy and consumer spending appear to be recovering
from the effects of the recent recession. We derive our cash flow from operations primarily from retail tenants, many of whom have been and continue to be under some degree of economic stress. A
significant deterioration in our cash flow from operations could require us to curtail planned capital expenditures or seek alternative sources of financing.   

We may not be able to lease newly developed properties and renew leases and relet space at
existing properties.      

              We may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections.
Also, when leases for our existing properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than
the current lease terms. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected. Changes in economic and
operating conditions that occur subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other assets could impact the assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future
charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.   

Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could
be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of these anchor stores or major tenants.      

              Our properties are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our
properties could be materially adversely affected if these department stores or major tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations or cease their operations.   

              For
example, among department stores and other large stores   often referred to as "big box" stores   corporate merger activity typically results
in the closure of duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. Further sustained   

  10  

Table of Contents   

  adverse
pressure on the results of our department stores and major tenants may have a similarly sustained adverse impact upon our own results. Certain department stores and other national retailers
have experienced, and may continue to experience for the foreseeable future given current macroeconomic uncertainty and less-than-desirable levels of consumer confidence, considerable decreases in
customer traffic in their retail stores, increased competition from alternative retail options such as those accessible via the Internet and other forms of pressure on their business models. As
pressure on these department stores and national retailers increases, their ability to maintain their stores, meet their obligations both to us and to their external lenders and suppliers, withstand
takeover attempts by investors or rivals or avoid bankruptcy and/or liquidation may be impaired and result in closures of their stores. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the economic or other
terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor, and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges.   

Additionally,
department store or major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic, which could lead to decreased sales at our properties. If the sales of stores operating
in our properties were to decline significantly due to the closing of anchor stores or other national retailers, adverse economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their
minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of any default by a tenant, we may not be able to fully recover, and/or may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to
recover, amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with such parties.   

We face potential adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies.      

              Bankruptcy filings by retailers can occur regularly in the course of our operations. We continually seek to re-lease vacant spaces
resulting from tenant terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant bankruptcies
could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy.   

We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.      

              Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retailing such as catalogs and e-commerce websites. Competition
may come from malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers, both existing as well as future development projects, as well as catalogs and e-commerce. The presence of
competitive alternatives affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. New construction, renovations and expansions at competing sites could also negatively affect our
properties.   

              We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified
management.   

Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties and our Investment in Kl pierre     

We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by
third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance them.      

              As of December 31, 2014, we owned interests in 95 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 13 properties
are included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for the other 82 properties, or the joint venture properties, as well as our investment in Kl pierre, using the
equity method of accounting. We serve as general partner or property manager for 60 of these 82 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as approving the operating budget and selling,
refinancing and redeveloping the properties require the consent of the other owners. Of the properties for which we do not serve as general partner or property manager, 19 are in our international
joint ventures. The international properties are managed locally by joint ventures in which we share control of the properties with our partner. The other owners have participating rights that we
consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties and Kl pierre are managed by third parties. These
limitations may adversely affect our ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.   

The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint
venture properties.      

              Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property, which is
non-recourse to us. As of December 31, 2014, the Operating Partnership guaranteed joint venture related mortgage indebtedness of $223.5 million (of which we have a right of recovery from
our venture partners of $78.7 million). A default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty. We may elect to fund cash needs of a joint venture
through equity contributions (generally on a basis proportionate to our ownership interests), advances or partner loans, although such fundings are not typically required contractually or otherwise.   

  11  

Table of Contents   

Other Factors Affecting Our Business     

Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.      

              We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third
party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies or other financial arrangements controlled by us. A third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence
of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through our captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property
insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue it could generate.   

We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The
current federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2020. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate
could adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

We face risks associated with security breaches through cyber-attacks, cyber intrusions or
otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of our information technology (IT) networks and related systems.      

              We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer
viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems, and other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems. Our IT networks and
related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants.
Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or
disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most
well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until
launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.
Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk.   

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain talented employees, and the
loss of any one of our key personnel could adversely impact our business.      

              The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and
our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees could significantly impact our future performance. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will
retain our executive management team and key employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals for these positions in the future. Losing any one or more of
these persons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.   

Risks Relating to Income Taxes     

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT in the United States and certain of our international
operations currently receive favorable tax treatment.      

              We are subject to certain income-based taxes, both domestically and internationally, and other taxes, including state and local taxes,
franchise taxes, and withholding taxes on dividends from certain of our international investments. We currently receive favorable tax treatment in various domestic and international jurisdictions
through tax rules and regulations or through international treaties. Should we no longer receive such benefits, the amount of taxes we pay may increase.   

              In
the U.S., we have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner which
allows us to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We intend to continue to operate in this manner. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability
to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of   

  12  

Table of Contents   

  stock
ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. REIT qualification is governed by highly technical and complex provisions for which there are only limited
judicial or administrative interpretations. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.   

If
we fail to comply with those provisions, we may be subject to monetary penalties or ultimately to possible disqualification as a REIT. If such events occurs, and if available relief
provisions do not apply:  

we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;    
            we will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular
corporate rates; and   
            unless entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four
taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.     

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments            

None.   

  13  

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    Properties            

United States Properties      

Our U.S. properties primarily consist of malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, community centers and other retail properties. These
properties contain an aggregate of approximately 182.0 million square feet of gross leasable area, or GLA.   

Malls
typically contain at least one traditional department store anchor or a combination of anchors and big box retailers with a wide variety of smaller stores connecting the anchors.
Additional stores are usually located along the perimeter of the parking area. Our 109 malls are generally enclosed centers and range in size from approximately 425,000 to 2.5 million
square feet of GLA. Our malls contain in the aggregate more than 13,900 occupied stores, including approximately 516 anchors, which are predominately national retailers.   

              Premium
Outlets generally contain a wide variety of designer and manufacturer stores located in open-air centers. Our 68 Premium Outlets range in size from approximately 150,000 to
850,000 square feet of GLA. The Premium Outlets are generally located near major metropolitan areas and/or tourist destinations.   

              The
13 properties in The Mills generally range in size from 1.1 million to 2.2 million square feet of GLA and are located in major metropolitan areas. They have a
combination of traditional mall, outlet center, and big box retailers and entertainment uses.   

              We
also have interests in three community centers and 14 other retail properties. The community centers range in size from 230,000 to 900,000 square feet of GLA. The other retail
properties range in size from approximately 150,000 to 750,000 square feet of GLA and are considered non-core to our business model. In total, the community centers and other retail properties
represent 1.4% of our total operating income before depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2014, approximately 97.1% of the owned GLA in malls and Premium Outlets was leased and approximately 98.4% of the owned GLA for The Mills was leased.   

              We
wholly own 133 of our properties, effectively control 13 properties in which we have a joint venture interest, and hold the remaining 61 properties through
unconsolidated joint venture interests. We are the managing or co-managing general partner or member of 204 properties in the United States. Certain of our joint venture properties are subject
to various rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, put and call rights, or other sale or marketing rights for partners which are customary in real estate partnership agreements and the industry.
We and our partners in these joint ventures may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions) which may result in either the sale of our interest or the use of
available cash or borrowings, or the use of Operating Partnership units, to acquire the joint venture interest from our partner.   

The
following property table summarizes certain data for our malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, community centers and other retail properties located in the United States, including
Puerto Rico, as of December 31, 2014.   

  14  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

15  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

16  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

17  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

18  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease) (3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy (5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

Premium Outlets   

1.   
     
   Albertville Premium Outlets  
     
   MN  
     
   Albertville (Minneapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.3%  

429,555  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Loft Outlet, Lululemon, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger,
Under Armour  

2.  
     
   Allen Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Allen (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   441,762  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy
Hilfiger  

3.  
     
   Aurora Farms Premium Outlets  
     
   OH  
     
   Aurora (Cleveland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

97.2%  

285,307  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

4.  
     
   Birch Run Premium Outlets  
     
   MI  
     
   Birch Run (Detroit)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

92.0%  

678,703  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, J.Crew, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Tommy Hilfiger, The North Face  

5.  
     
   Calhoun Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Calhoun  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

96.8%  

254,053  
     
   Ann Taylor, Carter's, Coach, Gap Outlet, Gymboree, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

6.  
     
   Camarillo Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Camarillo (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.3%  

674,834  
     
   Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Diesel, Hugo Boss, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch  

7.  
     
   Carlsbad Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Carlsbad (San Diego)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

289,461  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Vince  

8.  
     
   Carolina Premium Outlets  
     
   NC  
     
   Smithfield (Raleigh)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

97.9%  

438,870  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

9.  
     
   Charlotte Premium Outlets  
     
   NC  
     
   Charlotte  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  % (4)  
   Built 2014  

99.1%  

398,690  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, Kate Spade, Michael Kors, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Under Armour  

10.  
     
   Chicago Premium Outlets (13)  
     
   IL  
     
   Aurora (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2004  

98.0%  

437,483  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Diesel, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Lacoste, Max Mara, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph
Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th (6), Salvatore Ferragamo, Tag Heuer, Theory, Under Armour, Vera Bradley  

11.  
     
   Cincinnati Premium Outlets  
     
   OH  
     
   Monroe (Cincinnati)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2009  

100.0%  

398,835  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, The North Face  

12.  
     
   Clinton Crossing Premium Outlets  
     
   CT  
     
   Clinton  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

276,188  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Tumi, Under Armour, Vera Bradley  

13.  
     
   Columbia Gorge Premium Outlets  
     
   OR  
     
   Troutdale (Portland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

89.0%  

163,736  
     
   Adidas, Carter's, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Gymboree, Levi's, Tommy Hilfiger  

14.  
     
   Desert Hills Premium Outlets (13)  
     
   CA  
     
   Cabazon (Palm Springs)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

93.6%  

650,941  
     
   Alexander McQueen, Armani Outlet, Burberry, Coach, Gucci, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Marc Jocobs, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tory Burch, True
Religion, Yves Saint Laurent, Zegna  

15.  
     
   Edinburgh Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Edinburgh (Indianapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

97.8%  

377,839  
     
   Abercrombie   Fitch (6), Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Express (6), Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger,
Under Armour, White House Black Market  

16.  
     
   Ellenton Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Ellenton (Tampa)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.4%  

476,467  
     
   Ann Taylor, Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Movado, Nike, Puma, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th  

19  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease) (3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy (5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

17.   
     
   Folsom Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Folsom (Sacramento)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

97.4%  

297,701  
     
   Adidas, BCBG Max Azria, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Loft Outlet, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

18.  
     
   Gaffney Premium Outlets  
     
   SC  
     
   Gaffney (Greenville/Charlotte)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

93.6%  

359,825  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren  

19.  
     
   Gilroy Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Gilroy (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.1%  

577,872  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Lululemon, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, The North Face, Tommy Hilfiger,
 True Religion  

20.  
     
   Grand Prairie Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Grand Prairie (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2012  

98.9%  

417,211  
     
   Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Hugo Boss, Kate Spade New York, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

21.  
     
   Grove City Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Grove City (Pittsburgh)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

100.0%  

531,459  
     
   American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, The North Face, Under Armour, Vera Bradley  

22.  
     
   Gulfport Premium Outlets  
     
   MS  
     
   Gulfport  
     
   Ground Lease (2059)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.5%  

300,233  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

23.  
     
   Hagerstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Hagerstown (Baltimore/Washington D.C.  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

96.7%  

485,132  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Loft Outlet, Nike, The North Face, Timberland,
Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

24.  
     
   Houston Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Cypress (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2008  

100.0%  

541,760  
     
   Ann Taylor, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch,
Vera Bradley  

25.  
     
   Jackson Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Jackson (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.3%  

285,617  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Loft Outlet, Lucky Brand, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Talbots, Timberland, Tommy
Hilfiger, Under Armour  

26.  
     
   Jersey Shore Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Tinton Falls (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2008  

99.0%  

434,363  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Burberry, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, Diesel, DKNY, Eddie Bauer, Elie Tahari, Guess, J.Crew, Kate Spade New
York, Lacoste, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Talbots, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Under Armour, Ugg  

27.  
     
   Johnson Creek Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Johnson Creek  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.8%  

276,373  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Columbia Sportswear, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

28.  
     
   Kittery Premium Outlets  
     
   ME  
     
   Kittery  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2049) (7)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.5%  

259,403  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Chico's, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

29.  
     
   Las Americas Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   San Diego  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

95.9%  

555,261  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Under Armour  

30.  
     
   Las Vegas North Premium Outlets (13)  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2003  

97.5%  

527,779  
     
   Armani Outlet, A/X Armani Exchange, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Coach, David Yurman, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Elie Tahari, Etro, Hugo Boss, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus (6), Nike, Polo Ralph
Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th (6), Salvatore Ferragamo, St. John, TAG Heuer, Ted Baker, True Religion  

20  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease) (3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy (5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

31.   
     
   Las Vegas South Premium Outlets  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.7%  

535,772  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Bose, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Kenneth Cole, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, Vera
Bradley  

32.  
     
   Lebanon Premium Outlets  
     
   TN  
     
   Lebanon (Nashville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

90.7%  

227,271  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Samsonite  

33.  
     
   Lee Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Lee  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.8%  

224,850  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Chico's, Coach, Cole Haan, J.Crew, Lacoste, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

34.  
     
   Leesburg Corner Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Leesburg (Washington D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.3%  

517,992  
     
   Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Diesel, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Under Armour,
Vera Bradley, Williams-Sonoma  

35.  
     
   Liberty Village Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Flemington (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

88.9%  

162,217  
     
   American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, G.H. Bass   Co., J.Crew, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Timberland  

36.  
     
   Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Michigan City (Chicago, IL)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

454,730  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hollister, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, The North Face, Tommy
Hilfiger, Under Armour  

37.   
     
   Merrimack Premium Outlets  
     
   NH  
     
   Merrimack  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2012  

99.2%  

408,996  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger,
 Under Armour, White House Black Market  

38.  
     
   Napa Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Napa  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.3%  

179,168  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

39.  
     
   North Bend Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   North Bend (Seattle)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

97.7%  

223,552  
     
   Banana Republic, Carter's, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, PacSun, Under Armour, Van Heusen, VF Outlet  

40.  
     
   North Georgia Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Dawsonville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   540,312  
     
   Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Kate Spade, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth
Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, The North Face, Tommy Hilfiger, Williams-Sonoma  

41.  
     
   Orlando International Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.5%  

773,644  
     
   7 For All Mankind, Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, J.Crew, Kate Spade, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, The North Face,
Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Victoria's Secret  

42.  
     
   Orlando Vineland Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

655,004  
     
   Adidas, Armani Outlet, A/X Armani Exchange, Brunello Cucinelli, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Carolina Herrera, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Fendi, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Prada, Polo Ralph Lauren, Roberto
Cavalli, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, TAG Heuer, The North Face, Tod's, Tory Burch, Vera Bradley, Zegna  

43.   
     
   Osage Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   MO  
     
   Osage Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

94.3%  

392,450  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

21  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease) (3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy (5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

44.  
     
   Petaluma Village Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Petaluma (San Francisco)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.7%  

195,566  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, Nike, Puma, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

45.  
     
   Philadelphia Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Limerick (Philadelphia)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2007  

99.6%  

549,137  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Loft Outlet, Michael Kors,
 Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Restoration Hardware, Theory, Under Armour, Vera Bradley, Ugg  

46.  
     
   Phoenix Premium Outlets  
     
   AZ  
     
   Chandler (Phoenix)  
     
   Ground Lease (2077)  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2013  

98.7%  

356,496  
     
   Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Elie Tahari, Gap Factory Store, Hugo Boss, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

47.  
     
   Pismo Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Pismo Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

100.0%  

147,416  
     
   Calvin Klein, Carter's, Coach, Guess, Levi's, Nike, Nine West, Quiksilver, Skechers, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen  

48.  
     
   Pleasant Prairie Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Pleasant Prairie (Chicago/Milwaukee)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.0%  

402,540  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, Hugo Boss, Kate Spade, J.Crew, Lacoste, Loft Outlet, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, St. John, The North Face,
Under Armour, Ugg  

49.  
     
   Puerto Rico Premium Outlets  
     
   PR  
     
   Barceloneta  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.5%  

341,951  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Disney Store Outlet, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Loft Outlet, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma,
 Tommy Hilfiger  

50.  
     
   Queenstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Queenstown (Baltimore)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.7%  

289,472  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia sportswear, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Loft Outlet, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, St. John, Talbots, Tommy
Bahama  

51.  
     
   Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Mercedes (McAllen)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2006  

100.0%  

604,105  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Express, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, VF Outlet  

52.  
     
   Round Rock Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Round Rock (Austin)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2006  

99.3%  

488,672  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

53.  
     
   San Francisco Premium Outlets (13)  
     
   CA  
     
   Livermore (San Francisco)  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2021) (10)  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2012  

98.2%  

511,926  
     
   Barneys New York, Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Coach, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Kate Spade New York, J.Crew, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, MaxMara, Michael Kors, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy
Hilfiger  

54.  
     
   San Marcos Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   San Marcos (Austin/San Antonio  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.5%  

731,991  
     
   Banana Republic, Cole Haan, Diane Von Furstenberg, Gucci, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Kate Spade, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Michael Kors, Pottery Barn, Prada, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore
Ferragamo, The North Face, Tommy Bahama, Ugg, Victoria's Secret  

55.  
     
   Seattle Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   Tulalip (Seattle)  
     
   Ground Lease (2079)  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2005  

99.3%  

554,766  
     
   Abercrombie, Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, The North Face, Tommy Bahama, Tommy
Hilfiger  

22  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease) (3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy (5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

56.   
     
   Silver Sands Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Destin  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  % (4)  
   Acquired 2012  

98.0%  

451,087  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Dooney   Bourke, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Movado, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue
Off 5th, The North Face, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

57.  
     
   St. Augustine Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   St. Augustine (Jacksonsville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.5%  

328,539  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma (6), Reebok, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, Under
Armour  

58.  
     
   St. Louis Premium Outlets  
     
   MO  
     
   St. Louis (Chesterfield)  
     
   Fee  

60.0  
  % (4)  
   Built 2013  

99.1%  

351,462  
     
   Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, BCBG Max Azria, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Crabtree   Evelyn, Elie Tahari, J. Crew, Kate Spade New York, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, St. John, Tommy Hilfiger,
Ugg, Under Armour, Vera Bradley  

59.  
     
   Tanger Outlets   Galveston/Houston (1)  
     
   TX  
     
   Texas City  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  % (4)  
   Built 2012  

98.4%  

352,705  
     
   Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J. Crew, Kenneth Cole, Michael Kors, Nike, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, White House Black Market  

60.  
     
   The Crossings Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Tannersville  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2019) (7)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.8%  

411,520  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Guess, J.Crew, Kate Spade, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, The North Face, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger,
Under Armour  

61.  
     
   Twin Cities Premium Outlets  
     
   MN  
     
   Eagan  
     
   Fee  

35.0  
  % (4)  
   Built 2014  

97.3%  

408,944  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J. Crew, Michael Kors, Movado, Nike, Robert Graham, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, True Religion, Under Armour,
Vera Bradley  

62.  
     
   Vacaville Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Vacaville  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.5%  

440,040  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gucci, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger  

63.  
     
   Waikele Premium Outlets (13)  
     
   HI  
     
   Waipahu (Honolulu)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.4%  

215,546  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion  

64.  
     
   Waterloo Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Waterloo  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.6%  

417,752  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Chico's, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Talbots, Timerberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour,
 VF Outlet  

65.  
     
   Williamsburg Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Williamsburg  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.5%  

521,931  
     
   Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, Dooney   Bourke, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Loft
Outlet, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, The North Face, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Under Armour  

66.  
     
   Woodburn Premium Outlets  
     
   OR  
     
   Woodburn (Portland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2013  

99.2%  

389,773  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Cole Haan, Eddie Bauer, Fossil, Gap Outlet, J. Crew, Max Studio, Nike, The North Face, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Tommy Hilfiger  

23  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease) (3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy (5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

67.   
     
   Woodbury Common Premium Outlets (13)  
     
   NY  
     
   Central Valley (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.0%  

854,448  
     
   Armani Outlet, Banana Republic, Burberry, Chloe, Coach, Dior, Dolce   Gabbana, Fendi, Gucci, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Oscar de la Renta, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Reed Krakoff, Saks Fifth
Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tom Ford, Tory Burch, Valentino, Versace, Yves St. Laurent  

68.  
     
   Wrentham Village Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Wrentham (Boston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.1%  

660,101  
     
   All Saints, Ann Taylor, Armani Outlet, Banana Republic, Barneys New York, Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Kate Spade,
Lacoste, Michael Kors, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Robert Graham, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Ted Baker, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch, True Religion, Under Armour   

Total U.S. Premium Outlets GLA   

28,796,557   

24  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease) (3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy (5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

The Mills   

1.  
      
    Arizona Mills  
      
    AZ  
      
    Tempe (Phoenix)  
      
    Fee  

100.0  
   %  
    Acquired 2007  

98.5%  

1,239,804  
      
    Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th (15), Burlington Coat Factory, Sears Appliance Outlet, Gameworks, Sports Authority (11), Ross Dress for Less, At Home, Group USA, Harkins
Cinemas   IMAX, Sea Life Center, Conn's  

2.  
     
   Arundel Mills  
     
   MD  
     
   Hanover (Baltimore)  
     
   Fee  

59.3  
  % (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

100.0%  

1,662,640  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath   Beyond, Best Buy, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Dave   Buster's, F.Y.E., H M, Medieval Times, Modell's, Last Call by Neiman
Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, T.J. Maxx, Cinemark Egyptian 24 Theatres, Maryland Live! Casino, Forever 21  

3.  
     
   Colorado Mills  
     
   CO  
     
   Lakewood (Denver)  
     
   Fee  

37.5  
  % (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

96.3%  

1,410,205  
     
   Forever 21, Jumpstreet, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sports Authority, Super Target, United Artists Theatre, Burlington Coat Factory, H M  

4.  
     
   Concord Mills  
     
   NC  
     
   Concord (Charlotte)  
     
   Fee  

59.3  
  % (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.5%  

1,343,551  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, The Children's Place Outlet, Dave   Buster's, Nike Factory Store, T.J. Maxx, Group USA, Sun   Ski, VF
Outlet, Off Broadway Shoes, Bed Bath   Beyond, AMC Theatres, Best Buy, Forever 21, Sea Life Center  

5.  
     
   Grapevine Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Grapevine (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

59.3  
  % (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

93.3%  

1,778,483  
     
   Bed Bath   Beyond, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Group USA, Marshalls, Nike Factory Store, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, AMC Theatres, Sun   Ski Sports, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Sears
Appliance Outlet, Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Off Broadway Shoes, VF Outlet, Legoland Discovery Center, Sea Life Center, Ross Dress for Less, H M  

6.  
     
   Great Mall  
     
   CA  
     
   Milpitas (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

98.9%  

1,366,245  
     
   Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Sports Authority, Group USA, Kohl's, Dave   Busters, Sears Appliance Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Nike Factory Store, Century Theatres, Bed
Bath   Beyond, Off Broadway Shoes, Uniqlo  

7.  
     
   Gurnee Mills  
     
   IL  
     
   Gurnee (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

98.9%  

1,918,263  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath   Beyond/Buy Buy Baby, Burlington Coat Factory, Kohl's, Marshalls Home Goods, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Rinkside, Sears Grand, Sports Authority, T.J. Maxx, VF Outlet,
Marcus Cinemas, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Value City Furniture, Shoppers World, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Macy's  

8.  
     
   Katy Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Katy (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

62.5  
  % (4) (2)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.9%  

1,747,461  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath and Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Jumpstreet, Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike Factory Store, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sun   Ski Sports,
AMC Theatres, Off Broadway Shoes, Tilt, Ross Dress for Less, H M  

9.  
     
   Ontario Mills  
     
   CA  
     
   Ontario (Riverside)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  % (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.7%  

1,471,353  
     
   Burlington Coat Factory, Nike Factory Store, Gameworks, The Children's Place Outlet, Marshalls, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Bed Bath   Beyond, Nordstrom Rack, Dave   Busters, Group USA, Sam Ash Music,
Off Broadway Shoes, AMC Theatres, Sports Authority, Forever 21, Last Call by Neiman Marcus  

10.  
     
   Opry Mills  
     
   TN  
     
   Nashville  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

96.9%  

1,153,536  
     
   Regal Cinema   IMAX, Dave   Busters, VF Outlet, Sun   Ski, Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Forever 21, Bed Bath   Beyond, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Off Broadway Shoes,
H M  

25  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
U.S. Properties     

26  

Table of Contents   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    This
property is managed by a third party.
      (2)    Our
direct and indirect interests in some of the properties held as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on distributions in favor of other
partners or us.
      (3)    The
date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option available to the operating entity under the ground lease. In a majority of the ground
leases, we have a right to purchase the lessor's interest under an option, right of first refusal or other provision. Unless otherwise indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at
least 50% of its respective property.
      (4)    Joint
venture properties accounted for under the equity method.
      (5)    Malls  
Executed leases for all company-owned GLA in mall stores, excluding majors and anchors. Premium Outlets and The
Mills   Executed leases for all company-owned GLA (or total center GLA).
      (6)    Indicates
anchor or major that is currently under development or has announced plans for development.
      (7)    Indicates
ground lease covers less than 50% of the acreage of this property.
      (8)    Indicates
vacant anchor space(s).
      (9)    Tenant
has multiple locations at this center.
      (10)    Indicates
ground lease covers outparcel only.
      (11)    Tenant
has an existing store at this center but will move to a new location.
      (12)    We
receive substantially all the economic benefit of the property due to a preference or advance.
      (13)    Property
is undergoing an expansion.
      (14)    We
own a mortgage note that encumbers Pheasant Lane Mall that entitles us to 100% of the economics of this property.
      (15)    Indicates
anchor has announced its intent to close this location.
      (16)    Mall  
Freestanding GLA includes office space. Centers with more than 20,000 square feet of office space are listed below:     

27  

Table of Contents    

United States Lease Expirations      

The following table summarizes lease expiration data for our malls and Premium Outlets located in the United States, including Puerto
Rico, as of December 31, 2014. The data presented does not consider the impact of renewal options that may be contained in leases.   

U.S. MALLS AND PREMIUM OUTLETS LEASE EXPIRATIONS (1)     

(1)    Does
not consider the impact of renewal options that may be contained in leases. Excludes WPG properties.
      (2)    Annual
rental revenues represent domestic 2014 consolidated and joint venture combined base rental revenue excluding WPG properties.    

28  

Table of Contents   

International Properties     

              Our ownership interests in properties outside the United States are primarily owned through joint venture arrangements.   

European Investments      

On March 14, 2012, we acquired a 28.7% interest in Kl pierre for approximately $2.0 billion. At
December 31, 2014 we owned 57,634,148 shares, or approximately 28.9%, of Kl pierre, which had a quoted market price of $43.45 per share. Kl pierre is a publicly
traded, Paris-based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in shopping centers located in 13 countries in Europe. On July 29, 2014 Kl pierre announced that it had
entered into a conditional agreement to acquire Corio N.V., or Corio, pursuant to which Corio shareholders would receive 1.14 Kl pierre ordinary shares for each Corio ordinary
share. On January 15, 2015 the tender offer transaction closed, and it is anticipated that Kl pierre will own all of the equity of Corio on March 31, 2015 through a merger
transaction, after which our percentage ownership will be diluted to approximately 18.3%.   

During
the second quarter of 2013, we signed a definitive agreement with McArthurGlen, an owner, developer, and manager of designer outlets, to form one or more joint ventures to invest
in certain of its existing designer outlets, development projects, and its property management and development companies. In conjunction with that agreement, we purchased a noncontrolling interest in
the property management and development companies of McArthurGlen, and a noncontrolling interest in a development property located in Vancouver, British Columbia. On August 2, 2013 we acquired
a noncontrolling interest in Ashford Designer Outlet in Kent, UK. On October 16, 2013 we completed transactions with McArthurGlen acquiring noncontrolling interests in portions of four existing
McArthurGlen Designer Outlets   Parndorf (Vienna, Austria), La Reggia (Naples, Italy), Noventa di Piave (Venice, Italy), and Roermond (Roermond, Netherlands). During the quarter
ended June 30, 2014, we purchased an additional 22.5% noncontrolling interest in Ashford Designer Outlet, increasing our percentage ownership of this entity to 45%. At December 31, 2014
our legal ownership interests in these entities range from 45% to 90%.   

              We
own a 13.3% interest in Value Retail PLC and affiliated entities, which own or have interests in and operate nine luxury outlets throughout Europe. We also have a minority
direct ownership in three of those outlets.   

Other International Investments      

We also hold a 40% interest in nine operating joint venture properties in Japan, a 50% interest in three operating joint venture
properties in South Korea, a 50% interest in one operating joint venture property in Mexico, a 50% interest in one operating joint venture property in Malaysia, and a 50% interest in two operating
joint venture properties in Canada. The nine Japanese Premium Outlets operate in various cities throughout Japan and comprise over 3.1 million square feet of GLA and were 99.1% leased as of
December 31, 2014.   

              The
following property tables summarize certain data for our properties located in Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Malaysia, Canada and the various European countries related to the
McArthurGlen joint venture property locations at December 31, 2014:   

  29  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
International Properties     

COUNTRY/Property Name

City 
(Metropolitan area)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest    
     
   SPG Effective 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built    
     
   Total Gross 
Leasable Area    
     
   Retail Anchors and Major Tenants    

INTERNATIONAL PREMIUM OUTLETS   

JAPAN   

1.  
     
  Ami Premium Outlets  
     
  Ami (Tokyo)  
     
  Fee  

40.0  
  %  
  2009  

315,000  
     
  Adidas, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, McGregor, MK Michel Klein, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren  

2.  
     
  Gotemba Premium Outlets  
     
  Gotemba City (Tokyo)  
     
  Fee  

40.0  
  %  
  2000  

481,500  
     
  Armani, Balenciaga, Bally, Banana Republic, Bottega Veneta, Burberry, Coach, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Dunhill, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Jill Stuart, Loro Piana, Miu Miu, Moschino, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada,
Salvatore Ferragamo, Tod's  

3.  
     
  Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets  
     
  Hyougo-ken (Osaka)  
     
  Ground Lease (2026)  

40.0  
  %  
  2007  

441,000  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Bally, Banana Republic, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Etro, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Harrod's, Hugo Boss, Loro Piana, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger,
Valentino  

4.  
     
  Rinku Premium Outlets  
     
  Izumisano (Osaka)  
     
  Ground Lease (2031)  

40.0  
  %  
  2000  

416,500  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Bally, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Dunhill, Eddie Bauer, Etro, Furla, Gap Outlet, Hugo Boss, Kate Spade, Lacoste, Lanvin Collection, Nike,
Polo Ralph Lauren  

5.  
     
  Sano Premium Outlets  
     
  Sano (Tokyo)  
     
  Ground Lease (2022)  

40.0  
  %  
  2003  

390,800  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Diesel, Dunhill, Eddie Bauer, Etro, Furla, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Harrod's, Kate Spade, Miu Miu, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada  

6.  
     
  Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets  
     
  Izumi Park Town (Sendai)  
     
  Ground Lease (2027)  

40.0  
  %  
  2008  

164,200  
     
  Adidas. Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Forever21, Jill Stuart, Levi's, Pleats Please Issey Miyake, Tasaki, TaylorMade, United Arrows  

7.  
     
  Shisui Premium Outlets  
     
  Shisui (Chiba), Japan  
     
  Ground Lease (2032)  

40.0  
  %  
  2013  

234,800  
     
  Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Citizen, Coach, Gap, Marmot, Michael Kors, Samsonite, Tommy Hilfiger, United Arrows  

8.  
     
  Toki Premium Outlets  
     
  Toki (Nagoya)  
     
  Ground Lease (2024)  

40.0  
  %  
  2005  

367,700  
     
  Adidas, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Diesel, Eddie Bauer, Furla, Gap Outlet, MK Michel Klein, Nike, Olive des Olive, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, United Arrows  

9.  
     
  Tosu Premium Outlets  
     
  Fukuoka (Kyushu)  
     
  Ground Lease (2023)  

40.0  
  %  
  2004  

290,400  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Bose, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Coach, Cole Haan, Courreges, Dolce   Gabbana, Furla, Gap Outlet, Miki House, Nike, Puma, Reebok, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger

Subtotal Japan   

3,101,900   

30  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
International Properties     

COUNTRY/Property Name

City 
(Metropolitan area)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest    
     
   SPG Effective 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built    
     
   Total Gross 
Leasable Area    
     
   Retail Anchors and Major Tenants    

MEXICO   

10.  
     
  Punta Norte Premium Outlets  
     
  Mexico City  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2004  

333,000  
     
  Adidas, Calvin Klein, CH Carolina Herrera, Coach, Kenneth Cole, Diesel, Lacoste, Levi's, MaxMara, Nautica, Nike, Palacio Outlet, Reebok, Rockport, Salvatore Ferragamo, Swarovski, Zegna  

Subtotal Mexico   

333,000   

SOUTH KOREA   

11.  
     
  Yeoju Premium Outlets  
     
  Yeoju (Seoul)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2007  

286,200  
     
  Adidas, Giorgio Armani, Burberry, Chloe, Coach, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Escada, Fendi, Gucci, Lacoste, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tod's, Valentino, Vivienne
Westwood  

12.  
     
  Paju Premium Outlets  
     
  Paju (Seoul)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2011  

442,900  
     
  Armani, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Escada, Jill Stuart, Lacoste, Lanvin Collection, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tory Burch, Vivienne Westwood  

13.  
     
  Busan Premium Outlets  
     
  Busan  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2013  

360,200  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Banana Republic, Bean Pole, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Gap, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, The North Face, Tommy Hilfiger   

Subtotal South Korea   

1,089,300   

MALAYSIA   

14.  
     
  Johor Premium Outlets  
     
  Johor (Singapore)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2011  

264,400  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Canali, Coach, DKNY, Gap, Guess, Lacoste, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nike, Salvatore Ferragamo, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Zegna  

Subtotal Malaysia   

264,400   

CANADA   

15.  
     
  Toronto Premium Outlets  
     
  Toronto (Ontario)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2013  

358,400  
     
  Adidas, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

16.  
     
  Premium Outlets Montreal  
     
  Montreal (Quebec)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2014  

365,500  
     
  Adidas, American Eagle Outfitters, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Gap, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Old Navy, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

Subtotal Canada   

723,900   

TOTAL INTERNATIONAL PREMIUM OUTLETS   

5,512,500   

31  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Property Table 
International Properties     

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    All
gross leasable area listed in square feet.     
  32  

Table of Contents    

Land      

We have direct or indirect ownership interests in approximately 350 acres of land held in the United States and Canada for
future development.   

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency      

We incorporate sustainable thinking into all areas of our business, from property development and operations, to doing business with
customers, to engaging with the communities we serve, as well as our employees.   

              One
main focus of our sustainability strategy is on energy conservation and energy efficiency. Through the continued use of energy conservation practices, energy efficiency projects,
and continuous monitoring and reporting, we have reduced our energy consumption at comparable properties every year since 2003. As a result, excluding new developments and expansions, we reduced the
electricity usage over which we have direct control by 280 million kWhs since 2003. This represents a 30% reduction in electricity usage across a portfolio of comparable properties and reflects
an annual value of over $28 million in avoided operating costs. Our documented reduction in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our energy management efforts is 481,500 metric tons of CO2e.   

              We
have been globally recognized for our energy efficiency programs and transparency in disclosure practices. In 2014, we were listed on CDP's Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for
the sixth time and included in the Climate Performance Leadership Index   identifying us as a leader in our sector for driving significant reduction in emissions due to
implementation of energy efficient initiatives. Additionally, in 2014 we received the highest designation of a Green Star rating from the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.   

Mortgage Financing on Properties      

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages and unsecured indebtedness encumbering our properties, and
the properties held by our domestic and international joint venture arrangements, and also our unsecured corporate debt. Substantially all of the mortgage and property related debt is nonrecourse to
us.   

  33  

Table of Contents    

Mortgage and Unsecured Debt on Portfolio Properties   As of December 31, 2014   (Dollars in thousands)            

34  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Unsecured Debt on Portfolio Properties 
As of December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)    

35  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Unsecured Debt on Portfolio Properties 
As of December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)    

36  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Unsecured Debt on Portfolio Properties 
As of December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)    

37  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Unsecured Debt on Portfolio Properties 
As of December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)    

(1)    Variable
rate loans based on 1M LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 80 bps to 250 bps. 1M LIBOR as of December 31, 2014 was 0.17%.
      (2)    Requires
monthly payment of interest only.
      (3)    Includes
applicable extension available at the Applicable Borrower's option.
      (4)    Variable
rate loans based on 1M CDOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 115 bps to 130 bps. 1M CDOR at December 31, 2014 was 1.30%.
      (5)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. CAD Equivalent is 189.9 million.
      (6)    Requires
annual payment of interest only.
      (7)    Variable
rate loans based on Cost of Fund plus interest rates spreads ranging from 150 bps to 175 bps. Cost of Fund as of December 31, 2014 was
3.54%.
      (8)    Expected
sale or transfer of the property during the first quarter of 2015.
      (9)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Ringgit equivalent is 75.0 million.
      (10)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (11)    Associated
with these loans are interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate of the loans at the all-in rate presented.
      (12)    Variable
rate loans based on 1M YEN LIBOR or 6M YEN LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 25.0 bps to 79.3 bps. As of December 31, 2014, 1M
YEN LIBOR and 6M YEN LIBOR were 0.08% and 0.14%, respectively.
      (13)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (14)    Requires
semi-annual payments of interest only.
      (15)    $4.0 Billion
Revolving Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2014, the Credit Facility   Yen Currency bears interest at Yen
LIBOR + 80 bps and the Credit Facility   Euro Currency bears interest at 1M EURO LIBOR + 80 bps. The facilities provide for different pricing based upon
our investment grade rating. As of December 31, 2014, $5.0 billion was available after outstanding borrowings and letters of credit under our credit facilities.
      (16)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Euro 306.0 million.
      (17)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. Won Equivalent is 301.9 billion.
      (18)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. Euro equivalent is 172.0 million.
      (19)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (20)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (21)    Loans
secured by these ten properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (22)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (23)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Yen 22.3 billion.
      (24)    Variable
rate loan based on 1M LIBOR plus an interest rate spread of 290 bps. In addition, 1M LIBOR is capped at 5.00%.
      (25)    Variable
rate loan based on 6M EURIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 95 bps to 135 bps. 6M EURIBOR at December 31, 2014 was 0.17%.
      (26)    Amount
shown in USD Equivalent. Yen equivalent is 29.5 billion.
      (27)    Variable
rate loans based on 91 Day Korean CD rate plus interest rate spreads ranging from 200 bps to 290 bps. The 91 Day Korean CD rate as of
December 31, 2014 was 2.13%.
      (28)    Variable
rate loan based on 3M EURIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 200 bps to 250 bps. 3M EURIBOR at December 31, 2014 was 0.08%.
      (29)    Consists
of five properties with interest rates ranging from 4.50% to 7.32% and maturities between 2015 and 2023.
      (30)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. Euro equivalent is 344.9 million.    

38  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Unsecured Debt on Portfolio Properties 
As of December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)    

(31)    Our
share of total indebtedness includes a pro rata share of the mortgage debt on joint venture properties, including The Mills Limited Partnership. To the
extent total indebtedness is secured by a property, it is non-recourse to us, with the exception of approximately $223.5 million of payment guarantees provided by the Operating Partnership (of
which $78.7 million is recoverable from our venture partner under the partnership agreement).
      (32)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. GBP equivalent is 40.0 million.
      (33)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (34)    Amount
shown in USD equivalent. Euro equivalent is 750.0 million.
      (35)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.    

The
changes in consolidated mortgages and unsecured indebtedness for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, 2012 are as follows:   

(a)    Includes
net activity on the credit facilities and commercial paper    

39  

Table of Contents    

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings            

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including, but not
limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such litigation, claims and
administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable, and the amount can
be reasonably estimated.    

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures            

Not applicable.   

  40  

Table of Contents    

Part II            

Item 5.    Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities            

Market Information      

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range for the shares and the
dividends declared per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years are shown below:   

There
is no established public trading market for Simon's Class B common stock. Dividends on the Class B common stock are identical to the common stock.   

Holders      

The number of holders of record of common stock outstanding was 1,345 as of December 31, 2014. The Class B common stock
is subject to two voting trusts as to which Herbert Simon and David Simon are the trustees. Shares of Class B common stock convert automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock
upon the occurrence of certain events and can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders.   

Dividends      

We must pay a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our future dividends and future distributions of the
Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, cash reserves as deemed
necessary for capital and operating expenditures, and the amount required to maintain our status as a REIT.   

              Common
stock dividends during 2014 aggregated $5.15 per share. Common stock dividends during 2013 aggregated $4.65 per share. In January 2015, our Board of Directors declared a cash
dividend of $1.40 per share of common stock payable on February 27, 2015 to stockholders of record on February 13, 2015.   

              We
offer a dividend reinvestment plan that allows our stockholders to acquire additional shares by automatically reinvesting cash dividends. Shares are acquired pursuant to the plan at
a price equal to the prevailing market price of such shares, without payment of any brokerage commission or service charge.   

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities      

During the fourth quarter of 2014, we issued an aggregate of 6,162 shares of common stock to limited partners of the Operating
Partnership in exchange for an equal number of units pursuant to the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, as follows:  

3,662 shares on December 12, 2014, and   
            2,500 shares on November 12, 2014.    

In
each case, the issuance of the shares of common stock was exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   

  41  

Table of Contents   

Issuances Under Equity Compensation Plans      

For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this
report.    

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data            

              The following tables set forth selected financial data. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements and notes thereto and with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Other data we believe is important in understanding trends in our business
is also included in the tables.   

(1)    During
the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded a $127.6 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with five unsecured note
tender offers and one early unsecured note redemption, reducing diluted FFO and diluted earnings per share by $0.35. We also recorded transaction expenses related to the spin-off of Washington Prime
of $38.2 million or $0.10 per share. 2014 FFO includes results for five months of Washington Prime of $146.2 million or $0.40 per share.
      (2)    During
the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $350.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with two unsecured note tender
offers, reducing diluted FFO and diluted earnings per share by $1.00. We also recorded transaction expenses of $69.0 million, reducing diluted FFO and diluted earnings per share by $0.20 and
$0.19, respectively.
      (3)    Represents
dividends declared per period.
      (4)    Ratio
calculations for years prior to the year ended December 31, 2014 have been revised to conform to the most recent presentation.
      (5)    FFO
is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe provides useful information to investors. Please refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a definition and reconciliation of FFO to consolidated net income and FFO per share to net income per share.    

42  

Table of Contents   

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations            

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto that are included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

Overview     

              Simon Property Group, Inc., Simon or the Company, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. REITs will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue
to distribute not less than 100% of their taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate
properties and other assets. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets  and The Mills . As of December 31, 2014, we
owned or held an interest in 207 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 109 malls, 68 Premium Outlets, 13 Mills, three community centers, and 14 other retail properties
in 37 states and Puerto Rico. We have four outlets under development and have redevelopment and expansion projects, including the addition of anchors and big box tenants, underway at more than 25
properties in the U.S. and Asia. Internationally, as of December 31, 2014, we had ownership interests in nine Premium Outlets in Japan, three Premium Outlets in South Korea, two Premium Outlets
in Canada, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. As of December 31, 2014, we had noncontrolling ownership interests in five outlet properties in Europe through our
joint venture with McArthurGlen. Of the five properties, two are located in Italy and one each is located in Austria, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Additionally, as of December 31,
2014, we owned a 28.9% equity stake in Kl pierre SA, or Kl pierre, a publicly traded, Paris-based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, shopping
centers located in 13 countries in Europe. On July 29, 2014 Kl pierre announced that it had entered into a conditional agreement to acquire Corio N.V., or Corio, pursuant
to which Corio shareholders would receive 1.14 Kl pierre ordinary shares for each Corio ordinary share. On January 15, 2015 the tender offer transaction closed, and it is
anticipated that Kl pierre will own all of the equity of Corio on March 31, 2015 through a merger transaction, after which our percentage ownership will be diluted to approximately
18.3%.   

              On
May 28, 2014, as further discussed in Note 3 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements, we completed the spin-off of our interests in 98 properties
comprised of substantially all of our strip center business and our smaller enclosed malls to Washington Prime Group Inc., or Washington Prime, an independent, publicly traded REIT (now doing
business as WP GLIMCHER). The historical results of operations of the Washington Prime properties as well as the related assets and liabilities are presented as discontinued operations in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:  

base minimum rents,   
            overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and   
            recoverable expenditures such as property operating, real estate taxes, repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional
expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
invest in real estate properties to maximize total financial return which includes both operating cash flows and capital appreciation. We seek growth in earnings, funds from
operations, or FFO, and cash flows by enhancing the profitability and operation of our properties and investments. We seek to accomplish this growth through the
following:  

attracting and retaining high quality tenants and utilizing economies of scale to reduce operating expenses,    
            expanding and re-tenanting existing highly productive locations at competitive rental rates,    
            selectively acquiring or increasing our interests in high quality real estate assets or portfolios of assets,    
            generating consumer traffic in our retail properties through marketing initiatives and strategic corporate alliances, and    
            selling selective non-core assets.    
 
  43  

Table of Contents   

              We
also grow by generating supplemental revenue from the following activities:  

establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused corporate
alliances, including payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media initiatives, business
development, sponsorship, and events,   
            offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the provision of
energy services,   
            selling or leasing land adjacent to our properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
            generating interest income on cash deposits and investments in loans, including those made to related entities.    

We
focus on high quality real estate across the retail real estate spectrum. We expand or redevelop properties to enhance profitability and market share of existing assets when we
believe the investment of our capital meets our risk-reward criteria. We selectively develop new properties in markets we believe are not adequately served by existing retail outlets.   

              We
routinely review and evaluate acquisition opportunities based on their ability to enhance our portfolio. Our international strategy includes partnering with established real estate
companies and financing international investments with local currency to minimize foreign exchange risk.   

              To
support our growth, we employ a three-fold capital strategy:  

provide the capital necessary to fund growth,   
            maintain sufficient flexibility to access capital in many forms, both public and private, and    
            manage our overall financial structure in a fashion that preserves our investment grade credit ratings.    

We
consider FFO, net operating income, or NOI, and comparable property NOI (NOI for properties owned and operating in both periods under comparison) to be key measures of operating
performance that are not specifically defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. We use these measures internally to evaluate the operating performance of our
portfolio and provide a basis for comparison with other real estate companies. Reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measure are included below in this discussion.   

Results Overview     

              Diluted earnings per common share increased $0.28 during 2014 to $4.52 as compared to $4.24 in 2013. The increase in diluted earnings
per share was primarily attributable to:  

improved operating performance and core business fundamentals in 2014 and the impact of our acquisition and expansion activity,    
            decreased interest expense in 2014 as further discussed below,   
            increased lease settlement and land sale activity as further discussed below, and   
            a 2014 gain on acquisitions and disposals of $158.3 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, primarily related to
Kl pierre's sale of a portfolio of 126 retail galleries of which our share was $133.9 million, or $0.37 per diluted share,   
            partially offset by a 2013 gain of $93.4 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, due to the sale or disposal of our interests in
certain properties as further discussed below and the acquisition of a controlling interest in an outlet center,   
            the loss of $117.3 million of net income attributable to the discontinued operations of Washington Prime, or $0.33 per diluted
share, along with transaction expenses related to the spin-off of $38.2 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, and   
            a loss on extinguishment of debt of $127.6 million, or $0.35 per diluted share.    

Core
business fundamentals improved during 2014 primarily driven by higher tenant sales and strong leasing activity. Our share of portfolio NOI grew by 6.7% in 2014 as compared to 2013.
Comparable property NOI also grew 5.1% for our portfolio of U.S. Malls, Premium Outlets and The Mills. Total sales per square foot, or psf, increased 0.2% from $618 psf at December 31, 2013, to
$619 psf at December 31, 2014, for our U.S. Malls and Premium Outlets. Average base minimum rent   

  44  

Table of Contents   

  for
U.S. Malls and Premium Outlets increased 4.4% to $47.01 psf as of December 31, 2014, from $45.01 psf as of December 31, 2013. Releasing spreads remained positive in our U.S. Malls
and Premium Outlets as we were able to lease available square feet at higher rents than the expiring rental rates on the same space, resulting in a releasing spread (based on total tenant
payments   base minimum rent plus common area maintenance) of $9.59 psf ($67.51 openings compared to $57.92 closings) as of December 31, 2014, representing a 16.6% increase
over
expiring payments. Ending occupancy for our U.S. Malls and Premium Outlets was 97.1% as of December 31, 2014, as compared to 96.9% as of December 31, 2013, an increase of 20 basis
points.   

              Our
effective overall borrowing rate at December 31, 2014 on our consolidated indebtedness decreased 39 basis points to 4.41% as compared to 4.80% at December 31, 2013.
This reduction was primarily due to a decrease in the effective overall borrowing rate on fixed rate debt of 38 basis points (4.72% at December 31, 2014 as compared to 5.10% at
December 31, 2013) combined with a decrease in the effective overall borrowing rate on variable rate debt of 6 basis points (1.16% at December 31, 2014 as compared to 1.22% at
December 31, 2013). At December 31, 2014, the weighted average years to maturity of our consolidated indebtedness was 6.2 years as compared to 4.2 years at
December 31, 2013.   

              Our
financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2014, included:  

Completing cash tender offers for any and all of five series of the Operating Partnership's outstanding senior unsecured notes with
maturity dates ranging from 2015 to 2017. The total principal amount of the notes tendered and accepted for purchase was approximately $1.322 billion, with a weighted average duration of
1.7 years and a weighted average coupon rate of 5.60%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes using cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $1.3 billion of
senior unsecured notes that closed on September 10, 2014. The senior notes offering was comprised of $900.0 million of 3.375% notes due 2024 and $400.0 million of 4.25% notes due
2044. Combined, the new issues of senior notes have a weighted average duration of 16.1 years and a weighted average coupon rate of 3.64%. A portion of the proceeds from the senior notes
offering was also used to fund the redemption on September 30, 2014 of all $250.0 million outstanding principal amount of the 7.875% notes due 2016 issued by one of our subsidiaries. We
recorded a $127.6 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the third quarter of 2014 as a result of the tender offers and redemption.   
            In addition to the debt tender offers and redemption described above, redeeming at par or repaying at maturity $1.3 billion of
senior unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 4.20% to 6.75%.   
            Issuing $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.20% with a maturity date of February 1,
2019 and $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 3.75% with a maturity date of February 1, 2024 on January 21, 2014.    
            Repaying $300.0 million on our $4.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility.    
            Unencumbering two properties by repaying $1.1 billion in mortgage loans.   
            Establishing a global unsecured commercial paper note program, or the Commercial Paper program, which provides a borrowing capacity of
$500.0 million. The outstanding amount of Commercial Paper at December 31, 2014 was $409.2 million, of which $209.2 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of
Euro-denominated notes.    
 
  45  

Table of Contents    

United States Portfolio Data     

              The portfolio data discussed in this overview includes the following key operating statistics: ending occupancy, average base minimum
rent per square foot, and total sales per square foot for our domestic assets. We include acquired properties in this data beginning in the year of acquisition and remove disposed properties in the
year of disposition. The Washington Prime properties have been removed from the portfolio data for all periods presented. For comparative purposes, we separate the information related to The Mills
from our other U.S. operations. We also do not include any properties located outside of the United States.   

              The
following table sets forth these key operating statistics for:  

properties that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements,   
            properties we account for under the equity method of accounting as joint ventures, and    
            the foregoing two categories of properties on a total portfolio basis.    

(1)    Percentages
may not recalculate due to rounding. Percentage and basis point changes are representative of the change from the comparable prior period.    

Ending Occupancy Levels and Average Base Minimum Rent per Square Foot.        Ending occupancy is the percentage
of gross leasable area, or GLA, which is
leased as of the last day of the reporting period. We include all company owned space except for mall anchors, mall majors, mall freestanding and mall outlots in the calculation. Base minimum rent per
square foot is the average base minimum rent charge in effect for the reporting period for all tenants that would qualify to be included in ending occupancy.   

Total Sales per Square Foot.        Total sales include total reported retail tenant sales on a trailing
12-month basis at owned GLA (for mall stores with
less than 10,000 square feet) in the malls and The Mills and all reporting tenants at the Premium Outlets. Retail sales at owned GLA affect revenue and profitability levels because sales determine the
amount of minimum rent that can be charged, the percentage rent realized, and the recoverable expenses (common area maintenance, real estate taxes, etc.) that tenants can afford to pay.   

Current Leasing Activities      

During 2014, we signed 773 new leases and 1,581 renewal leases (excluding mall anchors and majors, new development, redevelopment,
expansion, downsizing, and relocation) with a fixed minimum rent across our U.S. malls and Premium Outlets portfolio, comprising approximately 7.4 million square feet of which
5.5 million square feet related to consolidated properties. During 2013, we signed 950 new leases and 1,391 renewal leases with a fixed minimum rent,   

  46  

Table of Contents   

  comprising
approximately 10.3 million square feet of which 7.7 million square feet related to consolidated properties. The average annual initial base minimum rent for new leases was
$58.57 per square foot in 2014 and $49.85 per square foot in 2013 with an average tenant allowance on new leases of $38.83 per square foot and $34.69 per square foot, respectively.   

International Property Data      

The following are selected key operating statistics for our Premium Outlets in Japan. The information used to prepare these statistics
has been supplied by the managing venture partner.   

Critical Accounting Policies     

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting
policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, it is possible that different accounting policies would
have been applied resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we reevaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be
different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current information. Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may
require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 3 of the notes to
consolidated financial statements.   

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account for our
leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay overage rents
based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed its sales threshold.   
            We review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value of investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, a decline in a property's cash flows, occupancy or comparable sales per
square foot. We measure any impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying
value of the property. To the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We may decide to sell properties that are
held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ from their carrying values. We also review our investments, including investments in unconsolidated entities, if events or circumstances
change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may not be recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the investments below
carrying value is other-than-temporary. Changes in economic and operating conditions that occur subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other investments could impact the
assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.    
            To maintain our status as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income in any given year and meet certain asset and
income tests. We monitor our business and transactions that may potentially impact our REIT status. In the unlikely event that we fail to maintain our REIT status, and available relief provisions do
not apply, then we would be required to pay federal income taxes at regular corporate income tax rates during the period we did not qualify as a REIT. If we lost our REIT status, we could not elect to
be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were met. As a result,
failing to maintain REIT status would result in a significant increase in the income tax expense recorded and paid during those periods.    
 
  47  

Table of Contents   

We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions (including the components of excess investment in
joint ventures) to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value
to the buildings as-if-vacant, land and market value of in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our estimates of the
values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the market value of
in-place leases, we make our best estimates of the tenants' ability to pay rents based upon the tenants' operating performance at the property, including the competitive position of the property in
its market as well as sales psf, rents psf, and overall occupancy cost for the tenants in place at the acquisition date. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue that we will recognize over
the remaining lease term for the acquired in-place leases.   
            A variety of costs are incurred in the development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is
allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment.
The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property,
development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project as
substantially completed and held available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon opening.    

Results of Operations     

              In addition to the activity discussed above in the "Results Overview" section, the following acquisitions, openings, and dispositions
of consolidated properties affected our consolidated results from continuing operations in the comparative periods:  

On January 30, 2014, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in the previously unconsolidated Arizona Mills from our joint
venture partner.   
            On January 10, 2014, we acquired one of our partner's redeemable interests in a portfolio of ten properties, seven of which we
had previously consolidated.   
            During 2014, we disposed of three retail properties.   
            On October 10, 2013, we re-opened the redeveloped The Shops at Nanuet, a 750,000 square foot open-air, main street center
located in Nanuet, New York.   
            On May 30, 2013, we acquired a 390,000 square foot outlet center located near Portland, Oregon.    
            On April 4, 2013, we opened Phoenix Premium Outlets in Chandler, Arizona, a 360,000 square foot upscale outlet center.    
            During 2013, we disposed of two malls, four community centers, and two retail properties.    
            On December 4, 2012, we acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling interest in two previously consolidated outlet properties
located in Livermore, California, and Grand Prairie, Texas, which opened on November 8, 2012 and August 16, 2012, respectively.   
            On June 14, 2012, we opened Merrimack Premium Outlets, a 410,000 square foot outlet center located in Hillsborough County,
serving the Greater Boston and Nashua markets.   
            On March 29, 2012, Opry Mills re-opened after completion of the restoration of the property following the significant flood
damage which occurred in May 2010.   
            On March 22, 2012, we acquired, through an acquisition of substantially all of the assets of TMLP, additional interests in 26
joint venture properties in a transaction we refer to as the Mills transaction. Nine of these properties became consolidated properties at the acquisition date.   
            During 2012, we disposed of one mall, two community centers and six retail properties.    
 
  48  

Table of Contents   

In
addition to the activities discussed above and in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, dispositions, and openings of joint venture properties affected our income from
unconsolidated entities in the comparative periods:  

On October 30, 2014, we and our partner, Calloway Real Estate Investment Trust, or Calloway, opened Premium Outlets Montreal in
Canada, a 365,000 square foot outlet center serving the Greater Montreal area. We have a 50% noncontrolling interest in this new center.   
            On August 14, 2014, we and our partner opened Twin Cities Premium Outlets, a 409,000 square foot outlet center. We have a 35%
noncontrolling interest in this new center.   
            On July 31, 2014, we and our partner, Tanger Factory Outlet Centers, or Tanger, opened Charlotte Premium Outlets, a 399,000
square foot outlet center. We have a 50% noncontrolling interest in this new center.   
            On April 16, 2014, Kl pierre disposed of a portfolio of 126 properties located in France, Spain, and Italy.    
            On April 10, 2014, through our joint venture with McArthurGlen, we acquired an additional 22.5% noncontrolling interest in
Ashford Designer Outlet, increasing our percentage ownership interest of this property to 45%.   
            On January 10, 2014, as discussed above, we acquired one of our partner's redeemable interests in a portfolio of ten properties,
seven of which were consolidated and three were unconsolidated prior to the transaction. The three unconsolidated properties remained unconsolidated following the transaction.    
            On October 16, 2013, through our joint venture with McArthurGlen, we acquired noncontrolling interests in portions of four
Designer Outlets, which include Parndorf (Vienna, Austria), La Reggia (Naples, Italy), Noventa di Piave (Venice, Italy), and Roermond (Roermond, Netherlands).   
            On August 29, 2013, we and our partner, Shinsegae Group, opened Busan Premium Outlets, a 360,000 square foot outlet located in
Busan, South Korea.   
            On August 22, 2013, we and our partner, Woodmont Outlets, opened St. Louis Premium Outlets, a 350,000 square foot outlet
center. We have a 60% noncontrolling interest in this new center.   
            On August 2, 2013, through our joint venture with McArthurGlen, we acquired a 22.5% noncontrolling interest in Ashford Designer
Outlet located in Kent, UK.   
            On August 1, 2013, we and our partner, Calloway, opened Toronto Premium Outlets in Canada, a 360,000 square foot outlet center
serving the Greater Toronto area.   
            On April 19, 2013, we and our partner, Mitsubishi Estate Co., LTD., opened Shisui Premium Outlets, a 230,000
square foot outlet center located in Shisui (Chiba), Japan.   
            During 2013, we disposed of our interest in three retail properties.   
            On December 31, 2012, we contributed The Shops at Mission Viejo, a wholly-owned property, to a newly formed joint venture in
exchange for an interest in Woodfield Mall, a property contributed to the same joint venture by our joint venture partner.   
            On October 19, 2012, we and our partner, Tanger, opened Tanger Outlets in Galveston/Houston, a 350,000 square foot upscale
outlet center located in Texas City, Texas. We have a 50% noncontrolling interest in this new center.   
            On June 4, 2012, we acquired a 50% interest in a 465,000 square foot outlet center located in Destin, Florida.    
            As discussed above, on March 22, 2012, we acquired additional interests in 26 joint venture properties in the Mills transaction.
Of these 26 properties, 16 remained unconsolidated at the acquisition date.   
            On March 14, 2012, we acquired a 28.7% equity stake in Kl pierre. On May 21, 2012,
Kl pierre paid a dividend, which we elected to receive in additional shares, increasing our ownership to approximately 28.9%.   
            On January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership interest in Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A, or GCI, a joint venture which
at the time owned 45 properties located in Italy to our venture partner, Auchan S.A.   
            On January 6, 2012, we acquired an additional 25% interest in Del Amo Fashion Center.    
            During 2012, we disposed of our interests in three retail properties and one mall.    

For
the purposes of the following comparisons between the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the above transactions are
referred to as the property transactions. In the following   

  49  

Table of Contents   

  discussions
of our results of operations, "comparable" refers to properties we owned and operated in both years in the year-to-year comparisons.   

Year Ended December 31, 2014 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2013      

              Minimum rents increased $186.4 million during 2014, of which the property transactions accounted for $32.0 million of the
increase. Comparable rents increased $154.4 million, or 5.8%, primarily attributable to an increase in base minimum rents.   

              Tenant
reimbursements increased $104.2 million, due to a $14.8 million increase attributable to the property transactions and a $89.4 million, or 7.6%, increase in
the comparable properties primarily due to utility reimbursements, annual fixed contractual increases related to common area maintenance, real estate tax recoveries and additional marketing recoveries
related to costs incurred during our property rebranding initiative and increased digital and social media advertising costs.   

              Total
other income increased $32.7 million, principally as a result of a $16.1 million increase in lease settlement income, $8.3 million increase attributable to
dividend income and a $7.6 million increase in land sale activity.   

              Property
operating expense increased $27.6 million due to a $6.5 million increase related to the property transactions, and a $21.1 million increase related to the
comparable properties primarily as a result of increased utility expenses partially due to the harsh winter.   

              Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $36.1 million primarily due to the additional depreciable assets related to the property transactions and our continued
redevelopment and expansion activities.   

              Advertising
and promotion increased $18.8 million primarily related to costs incurred during our property rebranding initiative and increased digital and social media advertising
costs.   

              Provision
for credit losses increased $4.8 million as a result of increased reserves due to an increase in tenant bankruptcies and a decrease in recoveries as compared to 2013.
The 2014 expense is in line with longer term historical levels.   

              Home
and regional office costs increased $17.6 million primarily related to higher personnel costs including incentive compensation and one-time expenses related to the spin-off
of Washington Prime.   

              Other
expenses increased $7.9 million primarily due to the net foreign currency impact of the change in foreign currency rates from 2013 to 2014.   

Interest
expense decreased $89.5 million primarily due to the net impact of our financing activities during 2014 and the reduction in the effective overall borrowing rate as
previously discussed.   

              During
2014, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $127.6 million as a result of the debt tender offers and redemption during the third quarter of 2014.   

              Income
and other taxes decreased $11.5 million primarily due to a decrease in state income taxes and taxes related to certain of our international investments.   

Income
from unconsolidated entities increased $20.4 million primarily due to favorable results of operations from the development and redevelopment of joint venture properties
and 2013 results including an extinguishment charge related to the refinancing of Aventura Mall.   

              During
2014, we recorded a gain related to Kl pierre's sale of a portfolio of 126 properties and our disposal of three retail properties. Additionally, we acquired the
remaining 50% interest in Arizona Mills from our joint venture partner. The property was previously accounted for under the equity method and we recognized a non-cash gain upon consolidation of this
property. The aggregate gain recognized on these transactions was $158.3 million. During 2013, we disposed of our interest in two malls, four community centers, and five retail properties and
recorded a gain on the acquisition of an outlet center. The aggregate gain recognized on these transactions was approximately $93.4 million.   

              Discontinued
operations decreased $117.3 million due to 2014 including approximately five months ownership of the Washington Prime properties, whereas 2013 included twelve full
months of ownership of those properties. The 2013 results also include a $14.2 million gain on the disposal of three strip centers held within a joint venture portfolio of Washington Prime
properties. Additionally, on February 28, 2014 one strip center was sold by that same joint venture for a gain of $0.2 million. In 2014, we also incurred $38.2 million in
transaction costs related to the Washington Prime spin-off.   

  50  

Table of Contents    

              Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $11.0 million due to an increase in the net income of the Operating Partnership.   

Year Ended December 31, 2013 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2012      

              Minimum rents increased $182.0 million during 2013, of which the property transactions accounted for $99.7 million of the
increase. Comparable rents increased $82.3 million, or 3.7%, primarily attributable to an $78.2 million increase in base minimum rents. Overage rents increased $27.1 million, or
14.5%, as a result of an increase in tenant sales at the comparable properties in 2013 compared to 2012 of $20.1 million as well as an increase related to the property transactions of
$7.0 million.   

Tenant
reimbursements increased $100.8 million, due to a $40.4 million increase attributable to the property transactions and a $60.4 million, or 6.1%, increase in
the comparable properties primarily due to annual fixed
contractual increases related to common area maintenance and higher reimbursements for the tenants' pro rata share of real estate taxes.   

              Total
other income decreased $20.9 million, principally as a result of the following:  

a $18.3 million decrease in interest income primarily related to the repayment of related party loans and loans held for
investment,   
            a $12.4 million gain in 2012 on the sale of our investments in two multi-family residential facilities,    
            an $4.3 million decrease in land sale activity, and   
            a $7.0 million decrease in lease settlement income due to a higher number of terminated leases in 2012,    
            partially offset by an increase related to a $7.9 million gain on the sale of a non-retail office building in 2013,    
            a $7.7 million increase in financing and other fee revenue earned from joint ventures, net of eliminations, and    
            a $5.5 million increase in net other activity.    

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $39.3 million primarily due to the additional depreciable assets related to the property transactions and our continued
redevelopment and expansion activities.   

              Real
estate tax expense increased $25.8 million primarily due to an $14.9 million increase related to the property transactions.   

              Repairs
and maintenance expense increased $4.3 million primarily as a result of increased snow removal costs compared to the prior year period.   

              During
2013, we recorded a provision for credit losses of $7.2 million whereas in the prior year the provision was $10.9 million. Both amounts reflect the overall strong
economic health of our tenants.   

              Home
and regional office costs increased $17.0 million primarily related to higher personnel costs.   

              Interest
expense increased $13.9 million primarily due to an increase of $21.9 million related to the property transactions partially offset by the net impact of the
financing activities and reduction in the effective overall borrowing rate.   

              Income
and other taxes increased $23.8 million due to taxes related to certain of our international investments and an increase in state income taxes.   

Income
from unconsolidated entities increased $75.5 million primarily due to the increase in ownership in the joint venture properties acquired as part of the Mills transaction,
the 2012 acquisition of an equity stake in Kl pierre, our acquisition and expansion activity and favorable results of operations from joint venture properties partially offset by an
extinguishment charge related to the refinancing of Aventura Mall.   

              During
2013, we disposed of our interests in two malls, four community centers and five retail properties, and recorded a gain on the acquisition of an outlet center. The aggregate gain
recognized on these transactions was approximately $93.4 million. During 2012, we disposed of our interest in GCI, four unconsolidated properties, and eight consolidated retail properties for a
net gain of $43.7 million and acquired a controlling interest in nine properties previously accounted for under the equity method in the Mills transaction which resulted in the recognition of a
non-cash gain of $488.7 million. In addition, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $22.4 million on our remaining investment in SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, which
holds our investment in TMLP, representing the excess of carrying value over the estimated fair value.   

  51  

Table of Contents   

              Discontinued
operations increased $28.4 million as a result of favorable results of operations. The 2013 results also include a $14.2 million gain on the disposal of three
strip centers held within a joint venture portfolio of Washington Prime properties.   

              Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $53.2 million due to a decrease in the net income of the Operating Partnership and a decline in the percentage
ownership of the limited partners in the Operating Partnership.   

Liquidity and Capital Resources     

              Because we own long-lived income-producing assets, our financing strategy relies primarily on long-term fixed rate debt. Floating rate
debt currently comprises only 8.8% of our total consolidated debt at December 31, 2014. We also enter into interest rate protection agreements to manage our interest rate risk. We derive most
of our liquidity from positive net cash flow from operations and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities that totaled $3.2 billion during 2014. In addition, the Credit Facility,
the $2.0 billion supplemental unsecured revolving credit facility, or Supplemental Facility, and the Commercial Paper program provide alternative sources of liquidity as our cash needs vary
from time to time. Borrowing capacity under these credit facilities may be increased as discussed further below.   

              Our
balance of cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations decreased $1.1 billion during 2014 to $612.3 million as of December 31, 2014 as further
discussed in "Cash Flows" below.   

              On
December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate available borrowing capacity of approximately $5.0 billion under the two credit facilities, net of outstanding borrowings of
$558.5 million and letters of credit of $38.9 million. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the maximum amount outstanding under the two credit facilities was $1.2 billion
and the weighted average amount outstanding was $855.4 million. The weighted average interest rate was 0.99% for the year ended December 31, 2014. Further, on October 6, 2014, the
Operating Partnership entered into a global Commercial Paper program as further discussed below.   

We
and the Operating Partnership have historically had access to public equity and long and short-term unsecured debt markets and access to secured debt and private equity from
institutional investors at the property level.   

              Our
business model and status as a REIT requires us to regularly access the debt markets to raise funds for acquisition, development and redevelopment activity, and to refinance
maturing debt. We may also, from time to time, access the equity capital markets to accomplish our business objectives. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand and availability under the Credit
Facility, the Supplemental Facility, and the Commercial Paper program to address our debt maturities and capital needs through 2015.   

Cash Flows     

Our net cash flow from operating activities and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities totaled $3.2 billion
during 2014. In addition, we had net repayments from our debt financing and repayment activities, including the $127.6 million debt extinguishment charge, of $1.8 billion in 2014 and net
proceeds from debt financings related to the Washington Prime spin-off of $1.0 billion. These activities are further discussed below under "Financing and Debt" or Note 3 of the notes to
the consolidated financial statements. During 2014, we or the Operating Partnership also:  

funded the acquisition of one of our partner's remaining redeemable interests in a portfolio of ten properties, acquired the remaining
50% ownership interest in Arizona Mills from our joint venture partner, contributed funds into an existing partnership in exchange for a new series of preferred partnership units, and acquired an
undeveloped land parcel, the aggregate cash portion of which was $258.1 million,   
            paid stockholder dividends and unitholder distributions totaling $1.9 billion,    
            funded consolidated capital expenditures of $796.7 million (includes development and other costs of $51.6 million,
redevelopment and expansion costs of $516.0 million, and tenant costs and other operational capital expenditures of $229.1 million),   
            funded investments in unconsolidated entities of $239.8 million and received repayments of construction loans to joint ventures
of $120.1 million, net of funding, and   
            purchased marketable and non-marketable securities of $391.2 million.    

In
general, we anticipate that cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating expenses, monthly debt service, recurring capital expenditures, and dividends to
stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification
on a long-term basis. In addition, we expect to be able to generate or obtain capital for nonrecurring capital expenditures, such   

  52  

Table of Contents   

  as
acquisitions, major building redevelopments and expansions, as well as for scheduled principal maturities on outstanding indebtedness, from:  

excess cash generated from operating performance and working capital reserves,   
            borrowings on our credit facilities and Commercial Paper program,   
            additional secured or unsecured debt financing, or   
            additional equity raised in the public or private markets.    

We
expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2015, and we consider these projected cash flows in our sources and uses of cash. These cash flows are principally derived
from rents paid by our retail tenants. A significant deterioration in projected cash flows from operations could cause us to increase our reliance on available funds from our credit facilities,
curtail planned capital expenditures, or seek other additional sources of financing as discussed above.   

Financing and Debt     

Unsecured Debt      

At December 31, 2014, our unsecured debt consisted of $13.4 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating
Partnership, net of discounts, $558.5 million outstanding under our Credit Facility, $240.0 million outstanding under an unsecured term loan, and $409.2 million outstanding under
the Commercial Paper program. The December 31, 2014 balance on the Credit Facility included $372.2 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Euro-denominated borrowings and
$186.4 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings. At December 31, 2014 the outstanding amount under the Commercial Paper program was $409.2 million, of which
$209.2 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro-denominated notes. Foreign currency denominated borrowings under both the Credit Facility and Commercial Paper program are
designated as net investment hedges of a portion of our international investments.   

              On
December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate available borrowing capacity of approximately $5.0 billion under the Credit Facility and the Supplemental Facility. The maximum
outstanding balance of the credit facilities during the year ended December 31, 2014 was $1.2 billion and the weighted average outstanding balance was $855.4 million. Letters of
credit of $38.9 million were outstanding under the facilities as of December 31, 2014.   

              On
April 7, 2014, the Operating Partnership amended and extended the Credit Facility. The initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion may be increased to
$5.0 billion during its term and provides for borrowings denominated in U.S. Dollars, Euros, Yen, Sterling, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars. Borrowings in currencies other than the U.S.
Dollar are limited to 75% of the maximum revolving credit amount, as defined. The initial maturity date of the Credit Facility was extended to June 30, 2018 and can be extended for an
additional year to June 30, 2019 at our sole option. The base interest rate on the amended Credit Facility was reduced to LIBOR plus 80 basis points and the additional facility fee was reduced
to 10 basis points.   

              The
Supplemental Facility's borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion may be increased to $2.5 billion during its term. The Supplemental Facility will initially mature on
June 30, 2016 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. As of December 31, 2014, the base interest rate on the Supplemental Facility was LIBOR plus 95 basis points
with an additional facility fee of 15 basis points. Like the Credit Facility, the Supplemental Facility provides for a money market competitive bid option program and allows for multi-currency
borrowings. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we moved $184.9 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings from the Supplemental Facility to the Credit Facility.   

              On
October 6, 2014, the Operating Partnership entered into a global Commercial Paper program. Under the terms of this program, the Operating Partnership may issue unsecured
commercial paper notes, denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and other currencies, up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $500.0 million, or the
non-U.S. dollar equivalent thereof. Notes issued in non-U.S. currencies may be issued by one or more subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership and are guaranteed by the Operating Partnership. Notes
will be sold under customary terms in the U.S and Euro commercial paper note markets and will rank (either by themselves or as a result of the guarantee described above) pari passu with all of the
Operating Partnership's other unsecured senior indebtedness. Our Commercial Paper program is supported by our credit facilities and if necessary or appropriate, we may make one or more draws under the
credit facilities to pay amounts outstanding from time to time on the Commercial Paper program. At December 31, 2014, we had $409.2 million outstanding comprised of $200.0 million
outstanding in U.S. dollar denominated notes and $209.2 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Euro denominated notes with weighted average interest rates of 0.19% and 0.13%, respectively.
The borrowings mature on various dates from January 7, 2015 to March 18, 2015.   

  53  

Table of Contents   

              On
September 3, 2014, the Operating Partnership commenced cash tender offers for any and all of five series of its outstanding senior unsecured notes with maturity dates ranging
from 2015 to 2017. The total principal amount of notes tendered and accepted for purchase was approximately $1.322 billion, with a weighted average remaining duration of 1.7 years and a
weighted average coupon rate of 5.60%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes using cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes that
closed on September 10, 2014. The senior notes offering was comprised of $900.0 million of 3.375% notes due 2024 and $400.0 million of 4.25% notes due 2044. Combined, the new
issues of senior notes have a weighted average duration of 16.1 years and a weighted average coupon rate of 3.64%. A portion of the proceeds from the senior notes offering was also used to fund
the redemption on September 30, 2014 of all $250.0 million outstanding principal amount of the 7.875% notes due 2016 issued by one of our subsidiaries. We recorded a
$127.6 million loss of extinguishment of debt in the third quarter of 2014 as a result of the tender offers and redemption.   

On
January 21, 2014, the Operating Partnership issued $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.20% with a maturity date of February 1,
2019 and $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 3.75% with a maturity date of February 1, 2024. Proceeds from the unsecured notes offering were used to
repay debt and for general corporate purposes.   

              In
addition to the debt tender offers and redemption described above, during 2014 we used cash on hand to redeem at par or repay at maturity $1.3 billion of senior unsecured
notes with fixed rates ranging from 4.20% to 6.75%.   

Mortgage Debt      

Total mortgage indebtedness was $6.2 billion and $7.3 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

              On
January 2, 2014, we repaid the $820.0 million outstanding mortgage at Sawgrass Mills originally maturing July 1, 2014 and on February 28, 2014, we repaid
the $269.0 million outstanding mortgage at Great Mall originally maturing August 28, 2015. During 2014, we disposed of our interests in three retail properties and their related mortgage
debt of $90.0 million.   

Covenants      

Our unsecured debt agreements contain financial covenants and other non-financial covenants. If we were to fail to comply with these
covenants, after the expiration of the applicable cure periods, the debt maturity could be accelerated or other remedies could be sought by the lender including adjustments to the applicable interest
rate. As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants of our unsecured debt.   

              At
December 31, 2014, we or our subsidiaries were the borrowers under 38 non-recourse mortgage notes secured by mortgages on 52 properties, including five separate pools of
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 21 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the cross-defaulted pool may
constitute a default under all mortgages within that pool and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the pool. Certain of our secured debt instruments contain
financial and other non-financial covenants which are specific to the properties which serve as collateral for that debt. If the borrower fails to comply with these covenants, the lender could
accelerate the debt and enforce its right against their collateral. At December 31, 2014, the applicable borrowers under these non-recourse mortgage notes were in compliance with all covenants
where non-compliance could individually, or giving effect to applicable cross-default provisions in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.   

Summary of Financing     

Our consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect outstanding derivative instruments, and the effective weighted average interest rates as of
December 31, 2014 and 2013, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):   

54  

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements      

In regards to long-term debt arrangements, the following table summarizes the material aspects of these future obligations on our
consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2014, and subsequent years thereafter (dollars in thousands) assuming the obligations remain outstanding through initial maturities including
applicable exercise of available extension options:   

(1)    Represents
principal maturities only and therefore, excludes net premiums of $9,022.
      (2)    Variable
rate interest payments are estimated based on the LIBOR rate at December 31, 2014.
      (3)    Represents
contractual commitments for capital projects and services at December 31, 2014. Our share of estimated 2015 development, redevelopment and
expansion activity is further discussed below in the "Development Activity" section.
      (4)    Represents
only the minimum non-cancellable lease period, excluding applicable lease extension and renewal options.    

Our
off-balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of our investments in joint ventures which are common in the real estate industry and are described in Note 7 to the notes to
consolidated financial statements. Our joint ventures typically fund their cash needs through secured debt financings obtained by and in the name of the joint venture entity. The joint venture debt is
secured by a first mortgage, is without recourse to the joint venture partners, and does not represent a liability of the partners, except to the extent the partners or their affiliates expressly
guarantee the joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2014, the Operating Partnership guaranteed joint venture related mortgage indebtedness of $223.5 million (of which we have a right of
recovery from our venture partners of $78.7 million). Mortgages guaranteed by us are secured by the property of the joint venture which could be sold in order to satisfy the outstanding
obligation and which has an estimated fair value in excess of the guaranteed amount. We may elect to fund cash needs of a joint venture through equity contributions (generally on a basis proportionate
to our ownership interests), advances or partner loans, although such fundings are not required contractually or otherwise.   

Acquisitions and Dispositions     

Buy-sell, marketing rights, and other exit mechanisms are common in real estate partnership agreements. Most of our partners are
institutional investors who have a history of direct investment in
retail real estate. We and our partners in our joint venture properties may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions). If we determine it is in our
stockholders' best interests for us to purchase the joint venture interest and we believe we have adequate liquidity to execute the purchase without hindering our cash flows, then we may initiate
these provisions or elect to buy our partner's interest. If we decide to sell any of our joint venture interests, we expect to use the net proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness or to reinvest in
development, redevelopment, or expansion opportunities.   

Acquisitions.        On January 15, 2015, we acquired a 100% interest in Jersey Gardens (renamed The Mills
at Jersey Gardens) in Elizabeth, New
Jersey and University Park Village in Fort Worth, Texas, properties previously owned by Glimcher Realty Trust for $677.9 million of cash and the assumption of existing mortgage debt of
$405.0 million.   

              On
April 10, 2014, through our joint venture with McArthurGlen, we acquired an additional 22.5% noncontrolling interest in Ashford Designer Outlet, increasing our percentage
ownership of this property to 45%.   

              On
January 30, 2014, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Arizona Mills from our joint venture partner, as well as approximately 39 acres of land in Oyster Bay, New York,
for approximately $145.8 million, consisting of cash consideration and 555,150 units of the Operating Partnership. Arizona Mills is subject to a mortgage which was $166.9 million at the
time of the acquisition. The consolidation of this previously unconsolidated property resulted in a remeasurement of our previously held interest to fair value and a corresponding non-cash gain of
$2.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. We now own 100% of this property.   

On
January 10, 2014, we acquired one of our partner's redeemable interests in a portfolio of ten properties for approximately $114.4 million subject to a pre-existing
contractual arrangement. The amount paid to acquire the interests in   

  55  

Table of Contents   

the
seven properties which were previously consolidated was included in limited partners' preferred interest in the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties at
December 31, 2013.   

                 Dispositions.        We continue to pursue the disposition of properties that no longer meet our strategic
criteria or that are not a primary retail venue
within their trade area.   

              As
discussed in Note 3 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements, on May 28, 2014, we completed the spin-off of our interests in 98 properties comprised of
substantially all of our strip center business and our smaller enclosed malls to Washington Prime.   

During
2014, we disposed of our interests in three consolidated retail properties. The aggregate gain recognized on these transactions was approximately $21.8 million.   

              On
September 26, 2014, we sold our investment in a hotel located at Coconut Point in Estero, Florida. The gain from this sale was $4.5 million, which is included in other
income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

Development Activity     

New Domestic Developments, Redevelopments and Expansions.        During 2014, construction began on the
following Premium
Outlets:  

Gloucester Premium Outlets, a 375,000 square foot project located in Gloucester, New Jersey, which is scheduled to open in August 2015.
We own a 50% noncontrolling interest in this project. Our estimated share of the cost of this project is $61.4 million.   
            Tucson Premium Outlets, a 366,000 square foot project, which is scheduled to open in October 2015. We own a 100% interest in this
project. The estimated cost of this project is $95.0 million.   
            Tampa Premium Outlets, a 441,000 square foot project, which is scheduled to open in October 2015. We own a 100% interest in this
project. The estimated cost of this project is $129.2 million.    

During
2014, the following Premium Outlets opened:  

Charlotte Premium Outlets, a 399,000 square foot project located in Charlotte, North Carolina, opened on July 31, 2014. We own a
50% noncontrolling interest in this project, which is a joint venture with Tanger. Our share of the cost of this project is approximately $46.0 million.   
            Twin Cities Premium Outlets, a 409,000 square foot project located in Eagan, Minnesota, opened on August 14, 2014. We own a 35%
noncontrolling interest in this project. Our share of the cost of this project is approximately $37.9 million.    

We
recently announced plans to develop The Shops at Clearfork, a new 500,000 square foot project located in Fort Worth, Texas, which is scheduled to open in February 2017. We own a 45%
noncontrolling interest in this project.   

              We
routinely incur costs related to construction for significant redevelopment and expansion projects at our properties. Redevelopment and expansion projects, including the addition of
anchors and big box tenants, are underway at 25 properties in the U.S.   

                 Summary of Capital Expenditures.        The following table summarizes total capital expenditures on
consolidated properties on a cash basis (in millions):   

56  

Table of Contents    

              Our share of the costs of all development and redevelopment projects currently under construction is approximately $2.1 billion. We expect to fund these
capital projects with cash flows from operations. Our estimated stabilized return on invested capital typically ranges between 8-12% for all of our new development, expansion and redevelopment
projects.   

                International Development Activity.        We typically reinvest net cash flow from our international joint
ventures to fund future international
development activity. We believe this strategy mitigates some of the risk of our initial investment and our exposure to changes in foreign currencies. We have also funded most of our foreign
investments with local currency-denominated borrowings that act as a natural hedge against fluctuations in exchange rates. We expect our share of international development costs for 2015 will be
approximately $118.0 million, primarily funded through reinvested joint venture cash flow and construction loans.   

The
following table describes these new development and expansion projects as well as our share of the estimated total cost as of December 31, 2014 (in millions):   

Dividends     

              Common stock dividends during 2014 aggregated $5.15 per share. Common stock dividends during 2013 aggregated $4.65 per share. In
January 2015, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.40 per share of common stock payable on February 27, 2015 to stockholders of record on February 13, 2015. We must pay
a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our future dividends and future distributions of the Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual
results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, cash reserves as deemed necessary for capital and operating expenditures, and the amount required to maintain our
status as a REIT.   

Forward-Looking Statements     

              Certain statements made in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance
that its expectations will be attained, and it is possible that our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks,
uncertainties and other factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to meet debt service requirements, the availability and terms of financing, changes in our credit rating,
changes in market rates of interest and foreign exchange rates for foreign currencies, changes in value of investments in foreign entities, the ability to hedge interest rate and currency risk, risks
associated with the acquisition, development, expansion, leasing and management of properties, general risks related to retail real estate, the liquidity of real estate investments, environmental
liabilities, international, national, regional and local economic conditions, changes in market rental rates, security breaches that could compromise our information technology or infrastructure or
personally identifiable data of customers of our retail properties, trends in the retail industry, relationships with anchor tenants, the inability to collect rent due to the bankruptcy or insolvency
of tenants or otherwise, risks relating to joint venture properties, the intensely competitive market environment in the
retail industry, costs of common area maintenance, risks related to international activities, insurance costs and coverage, the loss of key management personnel, terrorist activities, changes in
economic and market conditions and maintenance of our status as a real estate investment trust. We discussed these and other risks and uncertainties under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part I,
Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may update that discussion in subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, but otherwise we undertake no duty or obligation to update
or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.   

  57  

Table of Contents   

Non-GAAP Financial Measures     

              Industry practice is to evaluate real estate properties in part based on performance measures such as FFO, diluted FFO per share, NOI
and comparable property NOI. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are helpful to investors because they are widely recognized measures of the performance of REITs and provide a relevant basis for
comparison among REITs. We also use these measures internally to measure the operating performance of our portfolio.   

              We
determine FFO based on the definition set forth by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, as consolidated net income computed in accordance with
GAAP:  

excluding real estate related depreciation and amortization,   
            excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items and cumulative effects of accounting changes,    
            excluding gains and losses from the sales or disposals of previously depreciated retail operating properties,    
            excluding impairment charges of depreciable real estate,   
            plus the allocable portion of FFO of unconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting based upon economic
ownership interest, and   
            all determined on a consistent basis in accordance with GAAP.    

We
have adopted NAREIT's clarification of the definition of FFO that requires us to include the effects of nonrecurring items not classified as extraordinary, cumulative effect of
accounting changes, or a gain or loss resulting from the sale or disposal of, or any impairment charges related to, previously depreciated operating properties.   

              We
include in FFO gains and losses realized from the sale of land, outlot buildings, marketable and non-marketable securities, and investment holdings of non-retail real estate. We also
include in FFO the impact of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, legal expenses, transaction expenses and other items required by GAAP.   

You
should understand that our computation of these non-GAAP measures might not be comparable to similar measures reported by other REITs and that these non-GAAP
measures:  

do not represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP,   
            should not be considered as alternatives to consolidated net income determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of operating
performance, and   
            are not alternatives to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.    
 
  58  

Table of Contents   

              The
following schedule reconciles total FFO to consolidated net income and diluted net income per share to diluted FFO per share.   

(A)    Includes
FFO of the Operating Partnership related to the Washington Prime properties, net of transaction expenses, of $108.0 million,
$360.3 million and $350.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Includes Diluted FFO per share
related to Washington Prime properties, net of transaction expenses, of $0.30, $0.99 and $0.97 for the years ended December 31, 2014, December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012,
respectively.
      (B)    FFO
of the Operating Partnership includes a loss on extinguishment of debt of $127.6 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, for the year ended
December 31, 2014.    

59  

Table of Contents   

The
following schedule reconciles consolidated net income to NOI and sets forth the computations of comparable property NOI.   

(1)    NOI
excluded from comparable property NOI relates to Washington Prime properties, international properties, other retail properties, TMLP properties, any of
our non-retail holdings and results of our corporate and management company operations, NOI of U.S. Malls, Premium Outlets and The Mills not owned and operated in both periods under comparison and
excluded income noted in footnote 2 below.
      (2)    Excludes
lease termination income, interest income, land sale gains, straight line rent, above/below market rent adjustments, and the impact of significant
redevelopment activities.    

60  

Table of Contents   

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

              We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial
reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive and
principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures
that:  

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and disposition of
assets;   
            Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and    
            Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

              We
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013).   

              Based
on that assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   

Item 7A.    Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk            

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage exposure to
interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are also exposed to
foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the derivative contracts
hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of anticipated issuances of senior notes. Upon completion of the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

              Our
future earnings, cash flows and fair values relating to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market rates of interest, primarily LIBOR, which was at historically low
levels during 2014. Based upon consolidated indebtedness and interest rates at December 31, 2014, a 50 basis point increase in the market rates of interest would decrease future earnings and
cash flows by approximately $9.2 million, and would decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $474.0 million.   

  61  

Table of Contents    

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework) (the COSO criteria). Simon Property Group, Inc.
and Subsidiaries' management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.   

              We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

              Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

In
our opinion, Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2014, based on the COSO criteria.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property
Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2014 of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 27, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

62  

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014. Our audit also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.   

              We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

              In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Simon Property Group, Inc. and
Subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework) and our report dated February 27, 2015, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

63  

Table of Contents    

      Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(Dollars in thousands, except share amounts)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  64  

Table of Contents    

      Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  65  

Table of Contents    

      Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(Dollars in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  66  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  67  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  68  

Table of Contents    

      Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

1. Organization     

              Simon Property Group, Inc., Simon or the Company, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. REITs will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they
continue to distribute not less than 100% of their taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our
real estate properties and other assets. The terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets  and The Mills . As of December 31, 2014, we
owned or held an interest in 207 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 109 malls, 68 Premium Outlets, 13 Mills, three community centers, and 14 other retail properties
in 37 states and Puerto Rico. Internationally, as of December 31, 2014, we had ownership interests in nine Premium Outlets in Japan, three Premium Outlets in South Korea, two Premium Outlets in
Canada, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. As of December 31, 2014, we had noncontrolling ownership interests in five outlet properties in Europe through our
joint venture with McArthurGlen. Of the five properties, two are located in Italy and one each is located in Austria, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Additionally, as of December 31,
2014, we owned a 28.9% equity stake in Kl pierre SA, or Kl pierre, a publicly traded, Paris-based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, shopping
centers located in 13 countries in Europe.   

              On
May 28, 2014, as further discussed in Note 3, we completed the spin-off of our interests in 98 properties comprised of substantially all of our strip center business
and our smaller enclosed malls to Washington Prime Group Inc., or Washington Prime, an independent, publicly traded REIT (now doing business as WP GLIMCHER). The historical results of
operations of the Washington Prime properties as well as the related assets and liabilities are presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:  

base minimum rents,   
            overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and   
            recoverable expenditures such as property operating, real estate taxes, repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional
expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
also grow by generating supplemental revenues from the following activities:  

establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused corporate
alliances, including payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media initiatives, business
development, sponsorship, and events,   
            offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the provision of
energy services,   
            selling or leasing land adjacent to our properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
            generating interest income on cash deposits and investments in loans, including those made to related entities.    

2. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation     

              The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all controlled subsidiaries, and all significant
intercompany amounts have been eliminated.   

  69  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts   and where indicated as in
millions or billions)            

We consolidate properties that are wholly owned or properties where we own less than 100% but we control. Control of a property is demonstrated by, among other
factors, our ability to refinance debt and sell the property without the consent of any other partner or owner and the inability of any other partner or owner to replace us.   

              We
also consolidate a variable interest entity, or VIE, when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE is based on whether an
entity has (1) the power to direct activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits
of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Our determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE considers all relationships between us and the VIE, including management agreements
and other contractual arrangements. As described in Note 4, on December 4, 2012, we acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling interest in two previously consolidated outlet properties.
Prior to the acquisition, we had determined these properties were VIEs and we were the primary beneficiary. There have been no changes during 2014 and 2013 in previous conclusions about whether an
entity qualifies as a VIE or whether we are the primary beneficiary of any previously identified VIE. During 2014 and 2013, we did not provide financial or other support to a previously identified VIE
that we were not previously contractually obligated to provide.   

Investments
in partnerships and joint ventures represent our noncontrolling ownership interests in properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. We
initially record these investments at cost and we subsequently adjust for net equity in income or loss, which we allocate in accordance with the provisions of the applicable partnership or joint
venture agreement, cash contributions and distributions, and foreign currency fluctuations, if applicable. The allocation provisions in the partnership or joint venture agreements are not always
consistent with the legal ownership interests held by each general or limited partner or joint venture investee primarily due to partner preferences. We separately report investments in joint ventures
for which accumulated distributions have exceeded investments in and our share of net income of the joint ventures within cash distributions and losses in partnerships and joint ventures, at equity in
the consolidated balance sheets. The net equity of certain joint ventures is less than zero because of financing or operating distributions that are usually greater than net income, as net income
includes non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2014, we consolidated 133 wholly-owned properties and 13 additional properties that are less than wholly-owned, but which we control or for which we are the
primary beneficiary. We account for the remaining 82 properties, or the joint venture properties, as well as our investment in Kl pierre, using the equity method of accounting,
as we have determined we have significant influence over their operations. We manage the day-to-day operations of 60 of the 82 joint venture properties, but have determined that our partner or
partners have substantive participating rights with respect to the assets and operations of these joint venture properties. Our investments in joint ventures in Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Malaysia,
and the five properties through our joint venture with McArthurGlen comprise 19 of the remaining 22 properties. These international properties are managed locally by joint ventures in which we share
control.   

              Preferred
distributions of the Operating Partnership are accrued at declaration and represent distributions on outstanding preferred units of partnership interests held by limited
partners, or preferred units, and are included in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. We allocate net operating results of the Operating Partnership after preferred distributions to
limited partners and to us based on the partners' respective weighted average ownership interests in the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of the Operating Partnership attributable to
limited partners are reflected in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.   

              Our
weighted average ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2014 and 2013, our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was 85.5% and 85.7%, respectively. We adjust the noncontrolling limited partners' interest
at the end of each period to reflect their interest in the net assets of the Operating Partnership.   

  70  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

Investment Properties      

We record investment properties at cost. Investment properties include costs of acquisitions; development, predevelopment, and
construction (including allocable salaries and related benefits); tenant allowances and improvements; and interest and real estate taxes incurred during construction. We capitalize improvements and
replacements from repair and maintenance when the repair and maintenance extends the useful life, increases capacity, or improves the efficiency of the asset. All other repair and maintenance items
are expensed as incurred. We capitalize interest on projects during periods of construction until the projects are ready for their intended purpose based on interest rates in place during the
construction period. The amount of interest capitalized during each year is as follows:   

We
record depreciation on buildings and improvements utilizing the straight-line method over an estimated original useful life, which is generally 10 to 35 years. We review
depreciable lives of investment properties periodically and we make adjustments when necessary to reflect a shorter economic life. We amortize tenant allowances and tenant improvements utilizing the
straight-line method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter. We record depreciation on equipment and fixtures utilizing the straight-line method over seven to
ten years.   

              We
review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of investment properties may
not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in a property's cash flows, ending occupancy or total sales per square foot. We measure any impairment of investment
property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To the extent impairment has
occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We estimate fair value using unobservable data such as operating income, estimated
capitalization rates, or multiples, leasing prospects and local market information. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ from their
carrying values. We also review our investments, including investments in unconsolidated entities, if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may not be
recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the investments is other-than-temporary. Changes in economic and operating conditions that occur
subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other investments could impact the
assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.   

Purchase Accounting Allocation      

We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions and any excess investment in unconsolidated entities to the various components of the
acquisition based upon the fair value of each component which may be derived from various observable or unobservable inputs and assumptions. Also, we may utilize third party valuation specialists.
These components typically include buildings, land and intangibles related to in-place leases and we estimate:  

the fair value of land and related improvements and buildings on an as-if-vacant basis,    
            the market value of in-place leases based upon our best estimate of current market rents and amortize the resulting market rent
adjustment into revenues,   
            the value of costs to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances and improvements and leasing commissions, and    
            the value of revenue and recovery of costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the space was vacant.    
 
  71  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

              Amounts
allocated to building are depreciated over the estimated remaining life of the acquired building or related improvements. We amortize amounts allocated to tenant improvements,
in-place lease assets and other lease-related intangibles over the remaining life of the underlying leases. We also estimate the value of other acquired intangible assets, if any, which are amortized
over the remaining life of the underlying related intangibles.   

Discontinued Operations      

On May 28, 2014, we completed the spin-off of our interests in 98 properties comprised of substantially all of our strip center
business and our smaller enclosed malls to Washington Prime, an independent, publicly traded REIT. The spin-off was effectuated through a distribution of the common shares of Washington Prime to
holders of Simon common stock as of the distribution record date, and qualified as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. For every two shares of Simon common stock held as of
the record date of May 16, 2014, Simon stockholders received one Washington Prime common share on May 28, 2014. At the time of the separation and distribution, Washington Prime owned a
percentage of the outstanding units of partnership interest of Washington Prime Group, L.P. that was approximately equal to the percentage of outstanding units of partnership interest of the
Operating Partnership, or units, owned by us. The remaining units of Washington Prime Group, L.P. were owned by limited partners of the Operating Partnership who received one Washington Prime
Group, L.P. unit for every two units they owned in the Operating Partnership. Subsequent to the spin-off, we retained a nominal interest in Washington Prime Group, L.P. We also retained
approximately $1.0 billion of proceeds from recently completed unsecured debt and mortgage debt as part of the spin-off.   

              The
historical results of operations of the Washington Prime properties have been presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive
income. Discontinued operations also include transaction costs of $38.2 million we incurred to spin-off Washington Prime. In addition, the assets and liabilities of Washington Prime are
presented separately from assets and liabilities from continuing operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows include within
operating, investing and financing cash flows those activities which related to our period of ownership of the Washington Prime properties.   

              The
following is a summary of the assets and liabilities transferred to Washington Prime as part of the spin-off (dollars in thousands):   

72  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

              The
results of the discontinued operations through the May 28, 2014 date of the spin-off are included in the consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2014.
Summarized financial information for discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 is as follows (dollars in thousands).   

Capital
expenditures on a cash basis for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 were $31.9 million, $93.3 million, and $67.8 million,
respectively, related to the discontinued operations.   

              We
and Washington Prime entered into property management and transitional services agreements in connection with the spin-off whereby we will provide certain services to Washington
Prime and its properties. Pursuant to the terms of the property management agreements, we manage, lease, and maintain Washington Prime's mall properties under the direction of Washington Prime. In
exchange, Washington Prime pays us annual fixed rate property management fees ranging from 2.5% to 4.0% of base minimum and percentage rents, reimburses us for direct out-of-pocket costs and expenses
and also pays us separate fees for any leasing and development services we provide. The property management agreements have an initial term of two years with automatic one year renewals unless
terminated. Either party may terminate the property management agreements on or after the two-year anniversary of the spin-off upon 180 days prior written notice.   

We
also provide certain support services to the Washington Prime strip centers and certain of its central functions to assist Washington Prime as it establishes its stand-alone
processes for various activities that were previously provided by us and does not constitute significant continuing support of Washington Prime's operations. These services include assistance in the
areas of information technology, treasury and financial management, payroll, lease administration, taxation and procurement. The charges for such services are intended to allow us to recover costs of
providing these services. The transition services agreement will terminate no later than two years following the date of the spin-off subject to a minimum notice period equal to the shorter of
180 days or one-half of the original service period.   

              Transitional
services fees earned for the portion of 2014 subsequent to the spin-off were approximately $3.2 million.   

  73  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

Cash and Cash Equivalents      

We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash and cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash equivalents generally consist of commercial paper, bankers acceptances, Eurodollars, repurchase agreements, and
money market deposits or securities. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk include our cash and cash equivalents and our trade accounts receivable. We
place our cash and cash equivalents with institutions with high credit quality. However, at certain times, such cash and cash equivalents may be in excess of FDIC and SIPC insurance limits. See
Notes 4 and 10 for disclosures about non-cash investing and financing transactions.   

Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities      

Marketable securities consist primarily of the investments of our captive insurance subsidiaries, available-for-sale securities, our
deferred compensation plan investments, and certain investments held to fund the debt service requirements of debt previously secured by investment properties. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we
had marketable securities of $643.0 million and $148.3 million, respectively, generally accounted for as available-for-sale, which are adjusted to their quoted market price with a
corresponding adjustment in other comprehensive income (loss). Net unrealized gains recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 were approximately
$103.9 million and $1.1 million, respectively, and represent the valuation adjustments for our marketable securities.   

              The
types of securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries typically include U.S. Treasury or other U.S. government securities as well as
corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from less than 1 to 10 years. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are valued based upon quoted market prices or other
observable inputs when quoted market prices are not available. The amortized cost of debt securities, which approximates fair value, held by our captive insurance subsidiaries is adjusted for
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Changes in the values of these securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the gain or loss is
realized or until any unrealized loss is deemed to be other-than-temporary. We review any declines in value of these securities for other-than-temporary impairment and consider the severity and
duration of any decline in value. To the extent an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis is established.   

              Our
insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain statutory minimum capital and surplus as well as maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. Therefore, our access to these securities may be
limited. Our deferred compensation plan
investments are classified as trading securities and are valued based upon quoted market prices. The investments have a matching liability as the amounts are fully payable to the employees that earned
the compensation. Changes in value of these securities and changes to the matching liability to employees are both recognized in earnings and, as a result, there is no impact to consolidated net
income.   

              We
hold an investment in a publicly traded REIT, which is accounted for as an available-for-sale security. At December 31, 2014, we owned 5.71 million shares, representing
a market value of $476.4 million with an aggregate net unrealized gain of $102.5 million.   

              At
December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had investments of $167.1 million and $120.3 million, respectively, in non-marketable securities that we account for under the
cost method. We regularly evaluate these investments for any other-than-temporary impairment in their estimated fair value and determined that no adjustment in the carrying value was required. During
the fourth quarter of 2012, as a result of the significance and duration of the impairment, represented by the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of certain cost method
investments, we recognized other-than-temporary non-cash charges of $71.0 million, which is included in marketable and non-marketable securities charges and realized gains, net in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The fair value of the remaining investment for the securities that were impaired is not material and was based on
Level 2 fair value inputs.   

              On
October 23, 2012 we completed the sale of all of our investments in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, or CSCG, and Capital   Counties Properties PLC, or
CAPC. These investments were accounted for as available-for-sale securities and their value was adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component,   

  74  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

  through
other comprehensive income (loss). At the date of sale, we owned 35.4 million shares of CSCG and 38.9 million shares of CAPC. The aggregate proceeds received from the sale were
$327.1 million, and we recognized a gain on the sale of $82.7 million, which is included in marketable and non-marketable securities charges and realized gains, net in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The gain includes $79.4 million that was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

Fair Value Measurements      

Level 1 fair value inputs are quoted prices for identical items in active, liquid and visible markets such as stock exchanges.
Level 2 fair value inputs are observable information for similar items in active or inactive markets, and appropriately consider counterparty creditworthiness in the valuations. Level 3
fair value inputs reflect our best estimate of inputs and assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. The inputs are unobservable in the market
and significant to the valuation estimate. We have no investments for which fair value is measured on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.   

              The
marketable securities we held at December 31, 2014 and 2013 were primarily classified as having Level 1 fair value inputs. In addition, we had derivative instruments
which were classified as having Level 2 inputs which consist primarily of interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward contracts with a gross liability balance of
$2.1 million and $1.2 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and a gross asset value of $20.1 million and $8.4 million at December 31, 2014 and
2013, respectively.   

              Note 8
includes a discussion of the fair value of debt measured using Level 2 inputs. Notes 3 and 4 include a discussion of the fair values recorded in purchase
accounting and impairment, using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs. Level 3 inputs to our purchase accounting and impairment analyses include our estimations of net operating results of
the property, capitalization rates and discount rates.   

Use of Estimates      

We prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, or GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements, and revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our actual results could differ from these estimates.   

Segment Disclosure      

Our primary business is the ownership, development, and management of retail real estate. We have aggregated our retail operations,
including malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, and our international investments into one reportable segment because they have similar economic characteristics and we provide similar products and
services to similar types of, and in many cases, the same tenants.   

  75  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts   and where indicated as in
millions or billions)            

Deferred Costs and Other Assets      

Deferred costs and other assets include the following as of December 31:   

Deferred Financing and Lease Costs      

Our deferred costs consist primarily of financing fees we incurred in order to obtain long-term financing and internal and external
leasing commissions and related costs. We record amortization of deferred financing costs on a straight-line basis over the terms of the respective loans or agreements. Our deferred leasing costs
consist primarily of capitalized salaries and related benefits in connection with lease originations. We record amortization of deferred leasing costs on a straight-line basis over the terms of the
related leases. Details of these deferred costs as of December 31 are as follows:   

We
report amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of premiums, and accretion of discounts as part of interest expense. Amortization of deferred leasing costs is a
component of depreciation and amortization expense. We amortize debt premiums and discounts, which are included in mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, over the remaining terms of the related debt
instruments. These debt premiums or discounts arise either at the time of the debt issuance or as part of the purchase price allocation of the fair value of debt assumed in acquisitions. The
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income include amortization from continuing operations as follows:   

Loans Held for Investment      

From time to time, we may make investments in mortgage loans or mezzanine loans of third parties that own and operate commercial real
estate assets located in the United States. Mortgage loans are secured, in part, by mortgages recorded against the underlying properties which are not owned by us. Mezzanine loans are secured, in
part, by pledges of ownership interests of the entities that own the underlying real estate. Loans held for investment are carried at cost, net of any premiums or discounts which are accreted or
amortized over the life of the related loan receivable utilizing the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of these loans quarterly to
determine whether the value has been impaired. A loan is deemed to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according
to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is   

  76  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

  impaired,
the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the loan held for investment to its estimated realizable value.   

We
had investments in mortgage and mezzanine loans which were repaid during 2012. We recorded $6.8 million during 2012 in interest income earned from these loans.   

Intangibles      

The average remaining life of in-place lease intangibles is approximately 3.3 years and is being amortized on a straight-line
basis and is included with depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The fair market value of above and below market leases is amortized into
revenue over the remaining lease life as a component of reported minimum rents. The weighted average remaining life of these intangibles is approximately 4.7 years. The unamortized amount of
below market leases is included in accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and deferred revenues in the consolidated balance sheets and was $103.1 million and $135.1 million as
of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The amount of amortization from continuing operations of above and below market leases, net for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and
2012 was $11.3 million, $22.8 million, and $15.9 million, respectively. If a lease is terminated prior to the original lease termination, any remaining unamortized intangible is
written off to earnings.   

              Details
of intangible assets as of December 31 are as follows:   

Estimated
future amortization and the increasing (decreasing) effect on minimum rents for our above and below market leases as of December 31, 2014 are as follows:   

77  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

Derivative Financial Instruments      

We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on
the intended use of the derivative, whether we have designated a derivative as a hedge and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. We may use a
variety of derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to selectively manage or hedge a portion of the risks associated with our indebtedness and interest payments. Our
objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements. To
accomplish this objective, we primarily use interest rate swaps and caps. We require that hedging derivative instruments be highly effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to
hedge. As a result, there is no significant ineffectiveness from any of our derivative activities. We formally designate any instrument that meets these hedging criteria as a hedge at the inception of
the derivative contract. We have no credit-risk-related hedging or derivative activities. As of December 31, 2014, we had the following outstanding interest rate derivatives related to managing
our interest rate risk:   

Interest Rate Derivative

Number of 
Instruments    
     
   Notional Amount    

Interest Rate Swaps  
     
  2  
     
  $375.0 million  

The
carrying value of our interest rate swap agreements, at fair value, as of December 31, 2014, was a net liability balance of $1.2 million, of which $2.1 million
was included in other liabilities and $0.9 million was included in deferred costs and other assets. The carrying value of our interest rate swap agreements, at fair value, at
December 31, 2013 was a net asset balance of $3.0 million, of which $0.4 million was included in other liabilities and $3.4 million was included in deferred costs and other
assets. The interest rate cap agreements were of nominal value at December 31, 2013 and we generally do not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements.   

              We
are also exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on financial instruments which are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in Japan and Europe. We use currency
forward contracts and foreign currency denominated debt to manage our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates on certain Yen and Euro-denominated receivables and net investments. Currency
forward contracts involve fixing the Yen:USD or Euro:USD exchange rate for delivery of a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified date.   

The
currency forward contracts are typically cash settled in US dollars for their fair value at or close to their settlement date. Approximately  14.7 million
remained as of December 31, 2014 for all Yen forward contracts which matured through January 5, 2015. The December 31, 2014 asset balance related to these forward contracts was
$0.1 million and was included in deferred costs and other assets. The December 31, 2013 asset balance related to these forward contracts was $5.0 million and was included in
deferred costs and other assets. We have reported the changes in fair value for these forward contracts in earnings. The underlying currency adjustments on the foreign currency denominated receivables
are also reported in income and generally offset the amounts in earnings for these forward contracts.   

In
the third quarter of 2014, we entered into Euro:USD forward contracts, which were designated as net investment hedges, with an aggregate  150.0 million
notional value which mature through August 11, 2017. The December 31, 2014 asset balance related to these forward contracts was $19.1 million and is included in deferred costs and
other assets. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into a Euro:USD forward contract with a  74.0 million notional value, which we designated as a net investment hedge, that
matured on May 30, 2014. The liability balance related to this forward contract was $0.8 million and included in other liabilities as of December 31, 2013. We apply hedge
accounting to these forward contracts and report the changes in fair value in
other comprehensive income (loss). Changes in the value of these forward contracts are offset by changes in the underlying hedged Euro-denominated joint venture investment.   

              The
total gross accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our derivative activities, including our share of the other comprehensive loss from joint venture properties,
approximated $45.8 million and $61.8 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

  78  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

New Accounting Pronouncements      

In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-08, "Reporting
Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity." ASU 2014-08 changes the definition of a discontinued operation to include only those disposals of components of an
entity that represent a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. ASU 2014-08 became effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2014, but could be early-adopted. We early adopted ASU 2014-08 in the first quarter of 2014 and are applying the revised definition to all disposals on a prospective
basis, including the spin-off of Washington Prime. ASU 2014-08 also requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and certain other disposals that do not meet the definition of a
discontinued operation.   

              In
May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue From Contracts With Customers." ASU 2014-09 amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition and is based on
principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-09 will be effective for us beginning in its first
quarter of 2017. Early adoption is not permitted. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of
the date of adoption. We are currently evaluating the methods and impact of adopting the new revenue standard on our consolidated financial statements.   

Noncontrolling Interests      

Details of the carrying amount of our noncontrolling interests are as follows as of December 31:   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests (which includes nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, limited partners' interests in the Operating
Partnership, redeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, and preferred distributions payable by the Operating Partnership on its outstanding preferred units) is a component of
consolidated net income. In addition, the individual components of other comprehensive income (loss) are presented in the aggregate for both controlling and noncontrolling interests, with the portion
attributable to noncontrolling interests deducted from comprehensive income attributable to common stockholders.   

  79  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

A
rollforward of noncontrolling interests for the years ending December 31 is as follows:   

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)      

The changes in components of our accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following net of noncontrolling
interest as of December 31, 2014:   

80  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

              The
reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following as of December 31, 2014 and 2013:   

December 31, 2014    

December 31, 2013    

Amount reclassified 
from accumulated 
other comprehensive 
income (loss)    

Details about accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss) 
components:

Amount reclassified from 
accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss)    
     
   Affected line item in the 
statement where 
net income is presented    

Accumulated derivative losses, net  

$  
  (10,789  
  )  

$  
  (9,205  
  )  
  Interest expense  

1,568  

1,317  
     
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests   

$  
  (9,221  
  )  

$  
  (7,888  
  )  

Revenue Recognition      

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account for our
leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay overage rents
based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed the applicable sales threshold. We amortize any tenant inducements as a
reduction of revenue utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter.   

              We
structure our leases to allow us to recover a significant portion of our property operating, real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotion expenses from
our tenants. A substantial portion of our leases, other than those for anchor stores, require the tenant to reimburse us for a substantial portion of our operating expenses, including common area
maintenance, or CAM, real estate taxes and insurance. This significantly reduces our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. Such property operating expenses
typically include utility, insurance, security, janitorial, landscaping, food court and other administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2014 for substantially all of our leases in the U.S.
mall portfolio, we receive a fixed payment from the tenant for the CAM component which is recognized as revenue when earned. When not reimbursed by the fixed-CAM component, CAM expense reimbursements
are based on the tenant's proportionate share of the allocable operating expenses and CAM capital expenditures for the property. We also receive escrow payments for these reimbursements from
substantially all our non-fixed CAM tenants and monthly fixed CAM payments throughout the year. We accrue reimbursements from tenants for recoverable portions of all these expenses as revenue in the
period the applicable expenditures are incurred. We recognize differences between estimated recoveries and the final billed amounts in the subsequent year. These differences were not material in any
period presented. Our advertising and promotional costs are expensed as incurred.   

Management Fees and Other Revenues      

Management fees and other revenues are generally received from our unconsolidated joint venture properties as well as third parties.
Management fee revenue is earned based on a contractual percentage of joint venture property revenue. Development fee revenue is earned on a contractual percentage of hard costs to develop a property.
Leasing fee revenue is earned on a contractual per square foot charge based on the
square footage of current year leasing activity. We recognize revenue for these services provided when earned based on the underlying activity.   

              Revenues
from insurance premiums charged to unconsolidated properties are recognized on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. Insurance losses on these policies and our
self-insurance for our consolidated properties are reflected in property operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and include estimates for
losses incurred but not reported as well as losses pending settlement. Estimates for losses are based on evaluations by third-party actuaries and management's estimates. Total insurance reserves for
our insurance subsidiaries and other self-insurance programs as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 approximated $93.5 million and   

  81  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

  $103.4 million,
respectively, and are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Information related to the securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive
insurance subsidiaries is included within the "Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities" section above.   

Allowance for Credit Losses      

We record a provision for credit losses based on our judgment of a tenant's creditworthiness, ability to pay and probability of
collection. In addition, we also consider the retail sector in which the tenant operates and our historical collection experience in cases of bankruptcy, if applicable. Accounts are written off when
they are deemed to be no longer collectible. Presented below is the activity in the allowance for credit losses during the following years:   

Income Taxes      

We and certain subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership have elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to REIT qualification. In order to maintain this REIT status, the regulations require the entity to distribute at least 90% of
taxable income to its owners and meet certain other asset and income tests as well as other requirements. We intend to continue to adhere to these requirements and maintain our REIT status and that of
the REIT subsidiaries. As REITs, these entities will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Thus,
we made no provision for federal income taxes for these entities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If we or any of the REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, we or that
entity will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates for the years in which it failed to qualify. If we lose our REIT status we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years
following the year during which qualification was lost unless our failure to qualify was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were satisfied.   

              We
have also elected taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, status for some of our subsidiaries. This enables us to provide services that would otherwise be considered impermissible for REITs
and participate in activities that do not qualify as "rents from real property". For these entities, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial
reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is
provided if we believe all or some portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from the change in circumstances that causes a
change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset is included in income.   

              As
of December 31, 2014, we had a net deferred tax liability of $1.1 million and as of December 31, 2013, we had a net deferred tax asset of $1.1 million
related to our TRS subsidiaries. The net deferred tax liability is included in other liabilities and the net deferred tax asset is included in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The net deferred tax asset/liability consists primarily of operating losses and other carryforwards for federal income tax purposes as well as the timing of the
deductibility of losses or reserves from insurance subsidiaries. No valuation allowance has been recorded as we believe these amounts will be realized.   

              We
are also subject to certain other taxes, including state and local taxes, franchise taxes, as well as income-based and withholding taxes on dividends from certain of our
international investments, which are included in income and other taxes in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

  82  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts   and where indicated as in
millions or billions)            

Corporate Expenses      

Home and regional office costs primarily include compensation and personnel related costs, travel, building and office costs, and other
expenses for our corporate home office and regional offices. General and administrative expense primarily includes executive compensation, benefits and travel expenses as well as costs of being a
public company including certain legal costs, audit fees, regulatory fees, and certain other professional fees.   

4. Real Estate Acquisitions and Dispositions     

              We acquire interests in properties to generate both current income and long-term appreciation in value. We acquire interests in
individual properties or portfolios of retail real estate companies that meet our investment criteria and sell properties which no longer meet our strategic criteria. Unless otherwise noted below,
gains and losses on these transactions are included in gain upon acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on
investment in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. We expense acquisition, potential acquisition and disposition related
costs as they are incurred. We incurred $38.2 million in transaction costs during the first six months of 2014 related to the spin-off of Washington Prime. Other than these transaction costs,
we incurred a minimal amount of transaction expenses during 2014, 2013, and 2012.   

Our
consolidated and unconsolidated acquisition and disposition activity for the periods presented are highlighted as follows:   

2014 and 2015 Acquisitions      

On January 15, 2015, we acquired a 100% interest in Jersey Gardens (renamed The Mills at Jersey Gardens) in Elizabeth, New
Jersey and University Park Village in Fort Worth, Texas, properties previously owned by Glimcher Realty Trust for $677.9 million of cash and the assumption of existing mortgage debt of
$405.0 million.   

              On
April 10, 2014, as discussed further in Note 7, through our joint venture with McArthurGlen, we acquired an additional noncontrolling interest in Ashford Designer
Outlet.   

              On
January 30, 2014, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Arizona Mills from our joint venture partner, as well as approximately 39 acres of land in Oyster Bay, New York,
for approximately $145.8 million, consisting of cash consideration and 555,150 units of the Operating Partnership. Arizona Mills is subject to a mortgage which was $166.9 million at the
time of the acquisition. The consolidation of this previously unconsolidated property resulted in a remeasurement of our previously held interest to fair value and a corresponding non-cash gain of
$2.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. We now own 100% of this property.   

              On
January 10, 2014, we acquired one of our partner's redeemable interests in a portfolio of ten properties for approximately $114.4 million subject to a pre-existing
contractual arrangement. The amount paid to acquire the interests in the seven properties which were previously consolidated was included in limited partners' preferred interest in the Operating
Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interest in properties at December 31, 2013.   

2013 Acquisitions      

During 2013, as further discussed in Note 7, we acquired noncontrolling interests in the property management and development
companies of McArthurGlen as well as interests in five designer outlet properties.   

              On
May 30, 2013, we acquired a 100% interest in a 390,000 square foot outlet center located near Portland, Oregon for cash consideration of $146.7 million. The fair value
of the acquisition was recorded primarily as investment property and lease related intangibles. As a result of the excess of fair value over amounts paid, we recognized a gain of approximately
$27.3 million.   

  83  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

2012 Acquisitions      

On December 31, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we contributed a wholly-owned property to a newly formed joint venture in
exchange for an interest in a property contributed to the same joint venture by our joint venture partner.   

On
December 4, 2012, we acquired the remaining 50% noncontrolling equity interest in two previously consolidated outlet properties located in Grand Prairie, Texas, and Livermore,
California, and, accordingly, we now own 100% of these properties. We paid consideration of $260.9 million for the additional interests in the properties, 90% of which was paid in cash and 10%
of which was satisfied through the issuance of units of the Operating Partnership. In addition, the construction loans we had provided to the properties totaling $162.5 million were
extinguished on a non-cash basis. The transaction was accounted for as an equity transaction, as the properties had been previously consolidated.   

On
June 4, 2012, we acquired a 50% interest in a 465,000 square foot outlet center located in Destin, Florida for $70.5 million.   

              On
March 22, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we acquired additional interests in 26 of our joint venture properties from SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, in a
transaction valued at approximately $1.5 billion, or the Mills transaction.   

              On
March 14, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we acquired a 28.7% equity stake in Kl pierre for approximately $2.0 billion.   

On
January 6, 2012, we paid $50.0 million to acquire an additional 25% interest in Del Amo Fashion Center, thereby increasing our interest to 50%.   

2014 Dispositions      

During 2014, we disposed of our interests in three consolidated retail properties. The aggregate gain recognized on these transactions
was approximately $21.8 million.   

              On
September 26, 2014, we sold our investment in a hotel located at Coconut Point in Estero, Florida. The gain from this sale was $4.5 million, which is included in other
income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2013 Dispositions      

During 2013, we increased our economic interest in three unconsolidated community centers and subsequently disposed of our interests in
those properties. Additionally, we disposed of our interests in
eight consolidated retail properties and three unconsolidated retail properties. The aggregate gain recognized on these transactions was approximately $80.2 million.   

              On
August 8, 2013, we disposed of our interest in an office property located in the Boston, Massachusetts area. The gain on the sale was $7.9 million and is included in
other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2012 Dispositions      

During 2012, we disposed of our interests in nine consolidated retail properties and four unconsolidated retail properties. The
aggregate net gain on these disposals was $15.5 million.   

              On
May 3, 2012, we sold our interests in two residential apartment buildings located at The Domain in Austin, Texas. The gain from the sale was $12.4 million, which is
included in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

On
January 9, 2012, as discussed in Note 7, we sold our entire ownership interest in Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A, or GCI.   

  84  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

5. Per Share Data     

              We determine basic earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and
we consider any participating securities for purposes of applying the two-class method. We determine diluted earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding combined with the incremental weighted average shares that would have been outstanding assuming all potentially dilutive securities were converted into common shares at the earliest date
possible. The following table sets forth the computation of our basic and diluted earnings per share.   

For
the year ended December 31, 2014, potentially dilutive securities include units that are exchangeable for common stock and long-term incentive performance, or LTIP, units
granted under our long-term incentive performance programs that are convertible into units and exchangeable for common stock. The only securities that had a dilutive effect for the years ended
December 31, 2013 and 2012 were stock options.   

              We
accrue dividends when they are declared. The taxable nature of the dividends declared for each of the years ended as indicated is summarized as follows:   

In
January 2015, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.40 per share of common stock payable on February 27, 2015 to stockholders of record on February 13,
2015.   

  85  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

6. Investment Properties     

              Investment properties consist of the following as of December 31:   

7. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities     

              Joint ventures are common in the real estate industry. We use joint ventures to finance properties, develop new properties, and
diversify our risk in a particular property or portfolio of properties. As discussed in Note 2, we held joint venture interests in 82 properties as of December 31, 2014 and 93 properties
as of December 31, 2013. As discussed below, on January 9, 2012, we sold our interest in GCI which at the time owned 45 properties in Italy. Additionally, on March 14, 2012, we
purchased a 28.7% equity stake in Kl pierre. On May 21, 2012, Kl pierre paid a dividend, which we elected to receive in additional shares, resulting in an increase
in our ownership to approximately 28.9%.   

              Certain
of our joint venture properties are subject to various rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, put and call rights, or other sale or marketing rights for partners which
are customary in real estate joint venture agreements and the industry. We and our partners in these joint ventures may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar
restrictions), which may result in either the sale of our interest or the use of available cash, borrowings, or the use of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, to acquire the
joint venture interest from our partner.   

              We
may provide financing to joint ventures primarily in the form of interest bearing construction loans. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had construction loans and other
advances to related parties totaling $14.9 million and $140.3 million, respectively, which are included in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets.   

              On
January 30, 2014, as discussed in Note 4, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Arizona Mills from our joint venture partner. The consolidation of this previously
unconsolidated property resulted in a remeasurement of our previously held interest to fair value and a corresponding non-cash gain of $2.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. As a result of
this acquisition, we now own 100% of this property.   

              On
December 31, 2012, we formed a joint venture with Institutional Mall Investors, or IMI, to own and operate The Shops at Mission Viejo in the Los Angeles suburb of Mission
Viejo, California, and Woodfield Mall in the Chicago suburb of Schaumburg, Illinois. We and IMI each own a noncontrolling 50% interest in Woodfield Mall and we own a noncontrolling 51% interest in The
Shops at Mission Viejo and IMI owns the remaining 49%. Prior to the formation of the joint venture, we owned 100% of The Shops at Mission Viejo and IMI owned 100% of Woodfield Mall. No gain was
recorded as the transaction was recorded based on the carryover basis of our previous investment. Woodfield Mall is encumbered by a $425.0 million mortgage loan which matures in March of 2024
and bears interest at 4.5%. In January 2013, the joint venture closed a $295.0 million mortgage on the Shops at Mission Viejo which bears interest at 3.61% and matures in February of 2023. The
proceeds from the financing were distributed to the venture partners and, as a result, we received a distribution of $149.7 million.   

On
March 22, 2012, we acquired, through an acquisition of substantially all of the assets of TMLP, additional interests in 26 properties. The transaction resulted in additional
interests in 16 of the properties which remain unconsolidated, the consolidation of nine previously unconsolidated properties and the purchase of the remaining noncontrolling interest in a   

  86  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

  previously
consolidated property. The transaction was valued at $1.5 billion, which included repayment of the remaining $562.1 million balance on TMLP's senior loan facility, and
retirement of $100.0 million of TMLP's trust preferred securities. In connection with the transaction, our $558.4 million loan to SPG-FCM was extinguished on a non-cash basis. We
consolidated $2.6 billion in additional property-level mortgage debt in connection with this transaction. This property-level mortgage debt was previously presented as debt of our
unconsolidated entities. We and our joint venture partner had equal ownership in these properties prior to the transaction.   

              The
consolidation of the previously unconsolidated properties resulted in a remeasurement of our previously held interest in each of these nine newly consolidated properties to fair
value and recognition of a corresponding non-cash gain of $488.7 million. In addition, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $22.4 million for the excess of carrying
value of our remaining investment in SPG-FCM over its estimated fair value. The gain on the transaction and impairment charge are included in gain upon acquisition of controlling interests, sale or
disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on investment in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and
comprehensive income. The assets and liabilities of the newly consolidated properties acquired in the Mills transaction have been reflected at their estimated fair value at the acquisition date.   

              We
recorded our acquisition of the interest in these nine newly consolidated properties using the acquisition method of accounting. Tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were
established based on their fair values at the date of acquisition. The results of operations of the newly consolidated properties have been included in our consolidated results from the date of
acquisition. The purchase price allocations were finalized during the first quarter of 2013. No significant adjustments were made to the previously reported purchase price allocations.   

              On
January 6, 2012, we paid $50.0 million to acquire an additional 25% interest in Del Amo Fashion Center, increasing our interest to 50%.   

International Investments      

              We conduct our international operations through joint venture arrangements and account for all of our international joint venture
investments using the equity method of accounting   

European Investments.        At December 31, 2014, we owned 57,634,148 shares, or approximately 28.9%, of
Kl pierre, which had a
quoted market price of $43.45 per share. Our share of net income, net of amortization of our excess investment, was $131.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 and
$20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Based on applicable Euro:USD exchange rates and after our conversion of Kl pierre's results to GAAP,
Kl pierre's total assets, total liabilities, and noncontrolling interests were $12.7 billion, $8.2 billion, and $1.4 billion, respectively, as of
December 31, 2014 and $17.1 billion, $12.3 billion, and $1.7 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. Kl pierre's total revenues, operating
income and consolidated net income were approximately $1.2 billion, $432.1 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2014 and
$1.5 billion, $989.6 million and $317.3 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013. On April 16, 2014, Kl pierre completed the
disposal of a portfolio of 126 retail galleries located in France, Spain and Italy. Total gross consideration for the transaction, including transfer duties, was  1.98 billion
( 1.65 billion Kl pierre's group share). The net cash proceeds were used by Kl pierre to reduce its overall indebtedness. In connection with this
transaction, we recorded a gain of $133.9 million, net of the write-off of a portion of our excess investment, which is included in "Gain upon acquisition of controlling interests and sale or
disposal of assets and interest in unconsolidated entities, net" in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. On January 12, 2015 Kl pierre
paid an interim dividend, which reduced our carrying amount by approximately $62.0 million. On July 29, 2014 Kl pierre announced that it had entered into a conditional
agreement to acquire Corio N.V., or Corio, pursuant to which Corio shareholders would receive 1.14 Kl pierre ordinary shares for each Corio ordinary share. On January 15,
2015 the tender offer transaction closed, and it is anticipated that Kl pierre will own all of the equity of Corio on March 31, 2015 through a merger transaction, after which our
percentage ownership will be diluted to approximately 18.3%.   

During
the second quarter of 2013, we signed a definitive agreement with McArthurGlen, an owner, developer, and manager of designer outlets, to form one or more joint ventures to invest
in certain of its existing designer outlets, development projects, and its property management and development companies. In conjunction with that agreement, we purchased a noncontrolling interest in
the property management and development companies of McArthurGlen, and a noncontrolling interest in a development property located in Vancouver, British Columbia. On August 2, 2013, through our   

  87  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

  joint
venture with McArthurGlen, we acquired a noncontrolling interest in Ashford Designer Outlet in Kent, UK. On October 16, 2013, through our joint venture with McArthurGlen, we completed the
remaining transactions contemplated by our previously announced definitive agreement with McArthurGlen by acquiring noncontrolling interests in portions of four existing McArthurGlen Designer
Outlets   Parndorf (Vienna, Austria), La Reggia (Naples, Italy), Noventa di Piave (Venice, Italy), and Roermond (Roermond, Netherlands). During the quarter ended June 30,
2014, through our joint venture with McArthurGlen, we purchased an additional 22.5% noncontrolling interest in Ashford Designer Outlet, increasing our percentage ownership to 45%. At
December 31, 2014 our legal percentage ownership interests in these entities range from 45% to 90%. The aggregate consideration for the 2013 transactions was $496.7 million and is
subject to further adjustment based upon contractual obligations and customary purchase price adjustments. The carrying amount of our investment in these joint ventures, including all related
components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as well as subsequent capital contributions for development, was $677.1 million and $510.7 million as of December 31,
2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. The change in the carrying amount of the investment in 2014 was driven primarily by the additional investment discussed above and adjustments to our
purchase accounting during the one-year measurement period, including our estimate of the aggregate consideration that will ultimately be paid to the seller. Substantially all of our investment has
been determined to be excess investment and has been allocated to the underlying investment property based on estimated fair values. In December 2014, Roermond Designer Outlet phases 2 and 3,
in which we own a 90% interest, refinanced its $85.1 million mortgage maturing in 2017 with a $218.9 million mortgage that matures in 2021. The fixed interest rate was reduced from 5.12%
to 1.86% as a result. Excess proceeds from the financing were distributed to the venture partners in January 2015.   

              We
also have a minority interest in Value Retail PLC and affiliated entities, which own or have interests in and operate nine luxury outlets throughout Europe and a direct
minority ownership in three of those outlets. Our investment in these centers is accounted for under the cost method. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the carrying value of
these non-marketable investments was $115.4 million and is included in deferred costs and other assets.   

On
January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership interest in GCI to our venture partner, Auchan S.A. The aggregate cash we received was $375.8 million and we
recognized a gain on the sale of $28.8 million. Our investment carrying value included $39.5 million of accumulated losses related to currency translation and net investment hedge
accumulated balances which had been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

                 Asian Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in Japan through a joint
venture with Mitsubishi
Estate Co., Ltd. We have a 40% ownership interest in this joint venture. The carrying amount of our investment in this joint venture was $229.8 million and $261.1 million
as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, including all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We conduct our international Premium
Outlet operations in South Korea through a joint venture with Shinsegae International Co. We have a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture. The carrying amount of our investment in this
joint venture was $104.5 million and $76.4 million as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, including all related components of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).   

Summary Financial Information      

              A summary of our equity method investments and share of income from such investments, excluding Kl pierre, follows. In
addition, we acquired a controlling interest in nine properties in the Mills transaction on March 22, 2012. These previously unconsolidated properties became consolidated properties as of their
respective acquisition dates. During 2012, we disposed of our interests in one mall and three retail properties as well as our investment in GCI. During 2013, we disposed of three retail properties.
Finally, as discussed in Note 3, on May 28, 2014, we completed the spin-off of Washington Prime, which included ten unconsolidated properties. The net income of these ten properties is
included in income from operations of discontinued joint venture interests and the net assets and liabilities of these properties are included in the total assets and total liabilities of discontinued
operations, respectively, in the accompanying summary financial information. The above transactions are reported within discontinued operations in the following joint venture statements of operations.   

  88  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts   and where indicated as in
millions or billions)            

BALANCE SHEETS     

"Excess
Investment" represents the unamortized difference of our investment over our share of the equity in the underlying net assets of the joint ventures or other investments acquired
and is allocated on a fair value basis primarily to investment property, lease related intangibles, and debt premiums and discounts. We amortize excess investment over the life of the related
depreciable components of investment property, typically no greater than 40 years, the terms of the applicable leases and the applicable debt maturity, respectively. The amortization is
included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.   

  89  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

              As
of December 31, 2014, scheduled principal repayments on joint venture properties' mortgage indebtedness are as follows:   

This
debt becomes due in installments over various terms extending through 2027 with interest rates ranging from 0.39% to 9.35% and a weighted average rate of 4.44% at
December 31, 2014.   

              In
November 2013, Aventura Mall in which we own a 33% interest refinanced its $430.0 million mortgage maturing December 11, 2017 with a $1.2 billion mortgage that
matures December 1, 2020. The fixed interest rate was reduced from 5.91% to 3.75% as a result of this transaction and an extinguishment charge of $82.8 million was incurred which is
included in interest expense in the accompanying joint venture statements of operations. Excess proceeds from the financing were distributed to the venture partners.   

  90  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

Our
share of income from unconsolidated entities in the above table, aggregated with our share of results of Kl pierre, is presented in income from unconsolidated
entities in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Our share of the loss on sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net is
reflected within gain upon acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, and impairment charge on investment in unconsolidated entities,
net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2013 Dispositions      

In 2013, we disposed of our interest in three retail properties. We recognized no gain or loss on the disposal of these properties.   

  91  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

2012 Dispositions      

In July 2012, we disposed of our interest in a mall, and in August 2012 we disposed of our interest in three retail properties. Our
share of the net loss on disposition was $9.2 million.   

8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments     

              Our mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding the impact of derivative instruments, consist of the following as of
December 31:   

General.        Our unsecured debt agreements contain financial covenants and other non-financial covenants. If
we were to fail to comply with these
covenants, after the expiration of the applicable cure periods, the debt maturity could be accelerated or other remedies could be sought by the lender including adjustments to the applicable interest
rate. As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants of our unsecured debt.   

At
December 31, 2014, we or our subsidiaries were the borrowers under 38 non-recourse mortgage notes secured by mortgages on 52 properties, including five separate pools of
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 21 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the cross-defaulted pool may
constitute a default under all mortgages within that pool and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the pool. Certain of our secured debt instruments contain
financial and other non-financial covenants which are specific to the properties which serve as collateral for that debt. If the borrower fails to comply with these covenants, the lender could
accelerate the debt and enforce its right against their collateral. At December 31, 2014, the applicable borrowers under these non-recourse mortgage notes were in compliance with all covenants
where non-compliance could individually, or giving effect to applicable cross-default provisions in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.   

Unsecured Debt      

              At December 31, 2014, our unsecured debt consisted of $13.4 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating
Partnership, net of discounts, $558.5 million outstanding under the Operating Partnership's $4.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility, $240.0 million
outstanding under an unsecured term loan, and $409.2 million outstanding under the Operating Partnership's global unsecured commercial paper note program, or the Commercial Paper program. The
December 31, 2014 balance on the Credit Facility included $372.2 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Euro-denominated borrowings and $186.4 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of
Yen-denominated borrowings. At December 31, 2014 the   

  92  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

  outstanding
amount under the Commercial Paper program was $409.2 million, of which $209.2 million was related to the U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro-denominated notes. Foreign currency
denominated borrowings under both the Credit Facility and Commercial Paper program are designated as net investment hedges of a portion of our international investments.   

              On
December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate available borrowing capacity of approximately $5.0 billion under both the Credit Facility and the Operating Partnership's
$2.0 billion supplemental unsecured revolving credit facility, or Supplemental Facility. The maximum outstanding balance of the credit facilities during the year ended December 31, 2014
was $1.2 billion and the weighted average outstanding balance was $855.4 million. Letters of credit of $38.9 million were outstanding under the facilities as of
December 31, 2014.   

              On
April 7, 2014, the Operating Partnership amended and extended the Credit Facility. The initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion may be increased to
$5.0 billion during its term and provides for borrowings denominated in U.S. Dollars, Euros, Yen, Sterling, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars. Borrowings in currencies other than the U.S.
Dollar are limited to 75% of the maximum revolving credit amount, as defined. The initial maturity date of the Credit Facility was extended to June 30, 2018 and can be extended for an
additional year to June 30, 2019 at our sole option. The base interest rate on the amended Credit Facility was reduced to LIBOR plus 80 basis points and the additional facility fee was reduced
to 10 basis points.   

              The
Supplemental Facility's borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion may be increased to $2.5 billion during its term. The Supplemental Facility will initially mature on
June 30, 2016 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. As of December 31, 2014, the base interest rate on the Supplemental Facility was LIBOR plus 95 basis points
with an additional facility fee of 15 basis points. Like the Credit Facility, the Supplemental Facility provides for a money market competitive bid option program and allows for multi-currency
borrowings. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we moved $184.9 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings from the Supplemental Facility to the Credit Facility.   

On
October 6, 2014, the Operating Partnership entered into a global Commercial Paper program. Under the terms of this program, the Operating Partnership may issue unsecured
commercial paper notes, denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and other currencies, up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $500.0 million, or the non-U.S. dollar equivalent
thereof. Notes issued in non-U.S. currencies may be issued by one or more subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership and are guaranteed by the Operating Partnership. Notes will be sold under customary
terms in the U.S and Euro commercial paper note markets and will rank (either by themselves or as a result of the guarantee described above) pari passu with all of the Operating Partnership's other
unsecured senior indebtedness. Our Commercial Paper program is supported by our credit facilities and if necessary or appropriate, we may make one or more draws under the credit facilities to pay
amounts outstanding from time to time on the Commercial Paper program. At December 31, 2014, we had $409.2 million outstanding comprised of $200.0 million of U.S. dollar
denominated notes and $209.2 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Euro denominated notes with weighted average interest rates of 0.19% and 0.13%, respectively. The borrowings mature on various
dates from January 7, 2015 to March 18, 2015.   

              On
September 3, 2014, the Operating Partnership commenced cash tender offers for any and all of five series of its outstanding senior unsecured notes with maturity dates ranging
from 2015 to 2017. The total principal amount of notes tendered and accepted for purchase was approximately $1.322 billion, with a weighted average remaining duration of 1.7 years and a
weighted average coupon rate of 5.60%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes using cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes that
closed on September 10, 2014. The senior notes offering was comprised of $900.0 million of 3.375% notes due 2024 and $400.0 million of 4.25% notes due 2044. Combined, the new
issues of senior notes have a weighted average duration of 16.1 years and a weighted average coupon rate of 3.64%. A portion of the proceeds from the senior notes offering was used to fund the
redemption on September 30, 2014 of all $250.0 million outstanding principal amount of the 7.875% notes due 2016 issued by one of our subsidiaries. We recorded a $127.6 million
loss on extinguishment of debt in the third quarter of 2014 as a result of the tender offers and redemption.   

              On
January 21, 2014, the Operating Partnership issued $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.20% with a maturity date of February 1,
2019 and $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate
of 3.75% with a maturity date of February 1, 2024. Proceeds from the unsecured notes offering were used to repay debt and for general corporate purposes.   

  93  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts   and where indicated as in
millions or billions)            

              In addition to the debt tender offers and redemption described above, during the year ended December 31, 2014, we used cash on hand to redeem at par or
repay at maturity $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 4.20% to 6.75%.   

Mortgage Debt      

              Total mortgage indebtedness was $6.2 billion and $7.3 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

              On
January 2, 2014, we repaid the $820.0 million outstanding mortgage at Sawgrass Mills originally maturing July 1, 2014 and on February 28, 2014, we repaid
the $269.0 million outstanding mortgage at Great Mall originally maturing August 28, 2015. During 2014, we disposed of our interests in three retail properties and their related mortgage
debt of $90.0 million.   

Debt Maturity and Other      

Our scheduled principal repayments on indebtedness as of December 31, 2014 are as follows:   

Our
cash paid for interest in each period, net of any amounts capitalized, was as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage exposure to
interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are also exposed to
foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the derivative contracts
hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. Upon completion of the debt issuance, the fair value of these instruments is recorded as part of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

The
unamortized loss on our treasury locks and terminated hedges recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was $65.7 million and $67.5 million as of
December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As of December 31,
2014, our outstanding LIBOR based derivative contracts consisted of fixed rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $375.0 million.   

              Within
the next year, we expect to reclassify to earnings approximately $10.9 million of losses related to active and terminated interest rate swaps from the current balance held
in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

  94  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

Fair Value of Debt      

              The carrying value of our variable-rate mortgages and other loans approximates their fair values. We estimate the fair values of
consolidated fixed-rate mortgages using cash flows discounted at current borrowing rates and other indebtedness using cash flows discounted at current market rates. We estimate the fair values of
consolidated fixed-rate unsecured notes using quoted market prices, or, if no quoted market prices are available, we use quoted market prices for securities with similar terms and maturities. The book
value of our consolidated fixed-rate mortgages and unsecured indebtedness was $19.0 billion and $20.9 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The fair values of
these financial instruments and the related discount rate assumptions as of December 31 are summarized as follows:   

9. Rentals under Operating Leases     

              Future minimum rentals to be received under non-cancelable tenant operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter,
excluding tenant reimbursements of operating expenses and percentage rent based on tenant sales volume as of December 31, 2014 are as follows:   

10. Equity     

              Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify excess common stock into one or more additional classes and series of capital stock,
to establish the number of shares in each class or series and to fix the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, and qualifications and
terms and conditions of redemption of such class or series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of additional classes or series of capital stock may have the effect of
delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us without further action of the stockholders. The ability to issue additional classes or series of capital stock, while providing flexibility
in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring,
a majority of our outstanding voting stock.   

              Holders
of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, other than for the election of directors. The
holders of our Class B common stock have the right to elect up to four members of the Board of Directors. All 8,000 outstanding shares of the Class B common stock are subject to two
voting trusts as to which Herbert Simon and David Simon are the trustees. Shares of Class B common stock convert automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock upon the occurrence
of certain events and can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders.   

Common Stock Issuances      

In 2014, we issued 70,291 shares of common stock to seven limited partners of the Operating Partnership in exchange for an equal number
of units pursuant to the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership.   

              On
January 30, 2014, the Operating Partnership issued 555,150 units in connection with the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in Arizona Mills and approximately 39 acres
of land in Oyster Bay, New York, as discussed in Note 4.   

  95  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

              On
July 22, 2014, the Operating Partnership redeemed 87,621 units from a limited partner for $14.4 million in cash.   

Temporary Equity     

              We classify as temporary equity those securities for which there is the possibility that we could be required to redeem the security
for cash irrespective of the probability of such a possibility. As a result, we classify one series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interests in
properties in temporary equity. Each of these securities is discussed further below.   

Limited Partners' Preferred Interest in the Operating Partnership and Noncontrolling Redeemable Interests in Properties.        The following table
summarizes the preferred units of the Operating Partnership and the amount of the noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties as of December 31. The redemption features of the preferred
units of the Operating Partnership contain provisions which could require us to settle the redemption in cash. As a result,
this series of preferred units in the Operating Partnership remains classified outside permanent equity. The remaining interests in a property or portfolio of properties which are redeemable at the
option of the holder or in circumstances that may be outside our control, are accounted for as temporary equity within limited partners' preferred interest in the Operating Partnership and
noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is adjusted to the redemption amount assuming the
instrument is redeemable at the balance sheet date. Changes in the redemption value of the underlying noncontrolling interest are recorded within accumulated deficit. There are no noncontrolling
interests redeemable at amounts in excess of fair value.   

              On
January 10, 2014, we acquired one of our partner's remaining redeemable interests in a portfolio of ten properties for approximately $114.4 million subject to a
pre-existing contractual arrangement. The amount paid to acquire the interests in the seven properties which were previously consolidated was included in limited partners' preferred interest in the
Operating Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interest in properties in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2013. During the second quarter of 2014, in connection
with the resolution of all partnership disputes with related party limited partners in one of our partnerships, we contributed $83.0 million into the partnership in exchange for a new series of
preferred partnership units that carry a 2.5% preferred return. Amounts due upon a future exercise of the limited partners' right to cause us to redeem their noncontrolling interests would be net of
this preferred investment. Accordingly, this preferred investment contractually offsets the mezzanine liability previously recognized on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.   

7.50% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $7.50 annually.
The preferred units are redeemable by the Operating Partnership upon the death of the survivor of the original holders, or the transfer of any units to any person or entity other than the persons or
entities entitled to the benefits of the original holder. The redemption price is the liquidation value ($100.00 per preferred unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions, payable either in cash or
fully registered shares of our common stock at our election. In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred units, the occurrence of certain tax triggering events applicable to the holder, or
on or after November 10, 2006, the holder may require the Operating Partnership to redeem the preferred units at the same redemption price payable at the option of the Operating Partnership in
either cash or shares of common stock.   

Permanent Equity     

                Preferred Stock.        Dividends on all series of preferred stock are calculated based upon the preferred
stock's preferred return multiplied by the
preferred stock's corresponding liquidation value. The Operating Partnership pays preferred distributions to us equal to the dividends we pay on the preferred stock issued.   

  96  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

                 Series J 8 3 / 8 % Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        Dividends accrue
quarterly at an annual rate of 8 3 / 8 % per
share. We can redeem this series, in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2027 at a redemption price of $50.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. This preferred stock was
issued at a premium of $7.5 million. The unamortized premium included in the carrying value of the preferred stock at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $4.2 million and
$4.5 million, respectively.   

Other Equity Activity     

                 Notes Receivable from Former CPI Stockholders.        Notes receivable of $14.8 million from stockholders
of an entity we acquired in 1998 are
reflected as a deduction from capital in excess of par value in the consolidated statements of equity in the accompanying financial statements. The notes do not bear interest and become due at the
time the underlying shares are sold.   

                 The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended.        This plan, or the 1998 plan, provides
for the grant of equity-based awards in the
form of options to purchase shares, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock grants and performance-based unit awards. Options may be granted which are qualified as "incentive stock options" within
the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code and options which are not so qualified. An aggregate of 16,300,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the 1998
plan. Additionally, the partnership agreement requires us to purchase operating partnership units for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares.   

                 Administration.        The 1998 plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors,
or the Compensation Committee. The
Compensation Committee determines which eligible individuals may participate and the type, extent and terms of the awards to be granted to them. In addition, the Compensation Committee interprets the
1998 plan and makes all other determinations deemed advisable for its administration. Options granted to employees become exercisable over the period determined by the Compensation Committee. The
exercise price of an employee option may not be less than the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. Employee options generally vest over a three-year period and expire ten years from
the date of grant.   

                 Awards for Eligible Directors.        Directors who are not also our employees or employees of our affiliates
are eligible to receive awards under the 1998
plan. Currently, each eligible director receives on the first day of the first calendar month following his or her initial election an award of restricted stock with a value of $82,500 (pro-rated for
partial years of service). Thereafter, as of the date of each annual meeting of stockholders, eligible directors who are re-elected receive an award of restricted stock having a value of $82,500. In
addition, eligible directors who serve as chairpersons of the standing committees receive an additional annual award of restricted stock having a value of $10,000 (in the case of the Audit and
Compensation Committees) or $7,500 (in the case of the Governance and Nominating Committees). The Lead Independent Director also receives an annual restricted stock award having a value of $12,500.
The restricted stock vests in full after one year.   

              Once
vested, the delivery of the shares of restricted stock (including reinvested dividends) is deferred under our Director Deferred Compensation Plan until the director retires, dies
or becomes disabled or otherwise no longer serves as a director. The directors may vote and are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares; however, any dividends on the shares of
restricted stock must be reinvested in shares of common stock and held in the deferred compensation plan until the shares of restricted stock are delivered to the former director.   

Stock Based Compensation     

              Awards under our stock based compensation plans primarily take the form of LTIP units and restricted stock grants. Restricted stock and
awards under the LTIP programs are all performance based and are based on various corporate and business unit performance measures as further described below. The expense related to these programs,
net of amounts capitalized, is included within home and regional office costs and general and administrative costs in the accompanying statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

  97  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts   and where indicated as in
millions or billions)            

                 LTIP Programs.        Every year since 2010, the Compensation Committee has approved long-term, performance
based incentive compensation programs, or the
LTIP programs, for certain senior executive officers. Awards under the LTIP programs take the form of LTIP units, a form of limited partnership interest issued by the Operating Partnership, and will
be considered earned if, and only to the extent to which, applicable total shareholder return, or TSR, performance measures are achieved during the performance period. Once earned, LTIP units are
subject to a two year vesting period. One-half of the earned LTIP units will vest on January 1 of each of the 2nd and 3rd years following the end of the applicable performance
period, subject to the participant maintaining employment with us through those dates and certain other conditions as described in those agreements. Awarded LTIP units not earned are forfeited. Earned
and fully vested LTIP units are the equivalent of units. During the performance period, participants are entitled to receive distributions on the LTIP units awarded to them equal to 10% of the regular
quarterly distributions paid on a unit of the Operating Partnership. As a result, we account for these LTIP units as participating securities under the two-class method of computing earnings per
share.   

              From
2010 to 2014, the Compensation Committee approved LTIP grants as shown in the table below. Grant date fair values of the LTIP units are estimated using a Monte Carlo model, and the
resulting expense is recorded regardless of whether the TSR performance measures are achieved if the required service is delivered. The grant date fair values are being amortized into expense over the
period from the grant date to the date at which the awards, if any, would become vested. The extent to which LTIP units were earned, and the aggregate grant date fair values adjusted for estimated
forfeitures, are as follows:   

We
recorded compensation expense, net of capitalization, related to these LTIP programs of approximately $27.6 million, $25.7 million, and $22.0 million for the
years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

                 Restricted Stock.        The 1998 plan also provides for shares of restricted stock to be granted to certain
employees at no cost to those employees,
subject to achievement of individual performance and certain financial and return-based performance measures established by the Compensation Committee related to the most recent year's performance.
Once granted, the shares of restricted stock then vest annually over a three-year or a four-year period (as defined in the award). The cost of restricted stock grants, which is based upon the stock's
fair market value on the grant date, is recognized as expense ratably over the vesting period. Through December 31, 2014 a total of 5,530,945 shares of restricted stock, net of forfeitures,
have been awarded under the plan. Information regarding restricted stock awards is summarized in the following table for each of the years presented:   

We
recorded compensation expense, net of capitalization, related to restricted stock of approximately $12.3 million, $13.4 million, and $10.4 million for the years
ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

  98  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

                 Other Compensation Arrangements.        On July 6, 2011, in connection with the execution of an employment
agreement, the Compensation Committee
granted David Simon, our Chairman and CEO, a retention award in the form of 1,000,000 LTIP units, or the Award, for his continued service as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer through
July 5, 2019. Effective December 31, 2013, the Award was modified, or the Current Award, and as a result the LTIP units will now become earned and eligible to vest based on the
attainment of Company-based performance goals, in addition to the service-based vesting requirement included in the original Award. If the relevant performance criteria are not achieved, all or a
portion of the Current Award will be forfeited. The Current Award does not contain an opportunity for Mr. Simon to receive additional LTIP Units above and beyond the original Award should our
performance exceed the higher end of the performance criteria. The performance criteria of the Current Award are based on the attainment of specific funds from operations, or FFO, per share. If the
performance criteria have been met, a maximum of 360,000 LTIP units, or the A Units, 360,000 LTIP units, or the B Units, and 280,000 LTIP units, or the C Units, may become earned December 31,
2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The earned A Units will vest on January 1, 2018, earned B Units will vest on January 1, 2019 and earned C Units will vest on June 30, 2019,
subject to Mr. Simon's continued employment through such applicable date. The grant date fair value of the retention award of $120.3 million is being recognized as expense over the
eight-year term of his employment agreement on a straight-line basis based through the applicable vesting periods of the A Units, B Units and C Units.   

Since
2001, we have not granted any options to officers, directors or employees, except for a series of reload options we assumed as part of a prior business combination. As of
December 31, 2014, there were no remaining options outstanding.   

              We
also maintain a tax-qualified retirement 401(k) savings plan and offer no other post-retirement or post-employment benefits to our employees.   

Exchange Rights      

              Limited partners in the Operating Partnership have the right to exchange all or any portion of their units for shares of common stock
on a one-for-one basis or cash, as determined by the Board of Directors. The amount of cash to be paid if the exchange right is exercised and the cash option is selected will be based on the trading
price of our common stock at that time. At December 31, 2014, we had reserved 56,940,536 shares of common stock for possible issuance upon the exchange of units, stock options and
Class B common stock.   

11. Commitments and Contingencies     

Litigation      

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including, but not
limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such litigation, claims and
administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can
be reasonably estimated.   

              In
May 2010, Opry Mills sustained significant flood damage. Insurance proceeds of $50 million have been funded by the insurers and remediation work has been completed. The
property was re-opened March 29, 2012. The excess insurance carriers (those providing coverage above $50 million) have denied the claim under the policy for additional proceeds (of up to
$150 million) to pay further amounts for restoration costs and business interruption losses. We and our lenders are continuing our efforts through pending litigation to recover our losses under
the excess insurance policies for Opry Mills and we believe recovery is probable, but no assurances can be made that our efforts to recover these funds will be successful.   

Lease Commitments      

              As of December 31, 2014, a total of 22 of the consolidated properties are subject to ground leases. The termination dates of
these ground leases range from 2017 to 2090. These ground leases generally require us to make fixed annual rental payments, or a fixed annual rental plus a percentage rent component based upon the
revenues or total sales of the property. In addition, we have several regional office locations that are subject to leases with termination dates ranging from 2016 to   

  99  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

  2028.
These office leases generally require us to make fixed annual rental payments plus pay our share of common area, real estate and utility expenses. Some of our ground and office leases include
escalation clauses and renewal
options. We incurred ground lease expense and office lease expense, which are included in other expense and home office and regional expense, respectively, as follows:   

Future
minimum lease payments due under these leases for years ending December 31, excluding applicable extension options and any sublease income, are as follows:   

Insurance      

              We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by
third party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies, Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd., or other financial
arrangements controlled by us. The third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar
policy written through our captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The
current federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2015. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate
could adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

Guarantees of Indebtedness      

              Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by the joint venture property, which is non-recourse
to us. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Operating Partnership guaranteed joint venture related mortgage indebtedness of $223.5 million and $190.8 million, respectively (of
which we have a right of recovery from our venture partners of $78.7 million and $83.0 million, respectively). Mortgages guaranteed by us are secured by the property of the joint venture
which could be sold in order to satisfy the outstanding obligation and which has an estimated fair value in excess of the guaranteed amount.   

Concentration of Credit Risk      

              Our malls, Premium Outlets and Mills rely heavily upon anchor tenants to attract customers; however, anchor retailers do not contribute
materially to our financial results as many anchor retailers own their spaces. All material operations are within the United States and no customer or tenant accounts for 5% or more of our
consolidated revenues.   

  100  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

Limited Life Partnerships      

              We are the controlling partner in several consolidated partnerships that have a limited life. We estimated the settlement values of
these noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 as approximately $101.0 million and $125.0 million, respectively. The settlement values are based on the estimated
fair values upon a hypothetical liquidation of the partnership interests and estimated yield maintenance or prepayment penalties associated with the payment to settle any underlying secured mortgage
debt.   

12. Related Party Transactions     

              Our management company provides management, insurance, and other services to Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., a related
party, unconsolidated joint ventures, and other non-owned related party properties. Amounts for services provided by our management company and its affiliates to our unconsolidated joint ventures and
other related parties were as follows:   

During
2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded development, royalty and other fee income, net of elimination, related to our international investments of $13.7 million,
$14.0 million and $15.5 million, respectively. Also during 2014, 2013 and 2012, we received fees related to financing activities, net of elimination, provided to unconsolidated joint
ventures of $4.2 million, $15.9 million and $3.0 million, respectively. The fees related to our international investments and financing activities are included in other income in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

  101  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts 
and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

13. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)     

              Quarterly 2014 and 2013 data is summarized in the table below. Quarterly amounts may not sum to annual amounts due to rounding.   

102  

Table of Contents    

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            

              None.    

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures            

                Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Because of inherent limitations, disclosure
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of disclosure controls and procedures are met.   

Our
management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures
are effective at a reasonable assurance level.   

                Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       Management's report on internal control over
financial reporting is set forth
within Item 7 of this Form 10-K.   

Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm.       The audit report of Ernst   Young LLP
on their assessment of our internal
control over financial reporting is set forth within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.   

                Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       There was no change in our internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2014 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B.    Other Information            

              During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors approved certain audit,
audit-related and non-audit tax compliance and tax consulting services to be provided by Ernst   Young LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. This disclosure
is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Exchange Act as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

  103  

Table of Contents   

Part III            

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2015 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and the information included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.   

Item 11.    Executive Compensation            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2015 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2015 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2015 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2015 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

  104  

Table of Contents    

Part IV            

Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules            

Page No.    

(a)   
     
   (1)   
     
         Financial Statements    

The following consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and subsidiaries are set forth in the
Part II, item 8.   

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

62   

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013   

64   

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012   

65   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012   

66   

Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012   

67   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

69   

(2)  
     
        Financial Statement Schedule   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Schedule III   Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation   

108   

Notes to Schedule III   

113   

Other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the financial
statements or notes thereto.  

(3)   
     
         Exhibits    

The Exhibit Index attached hereto is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item.    

114   

105  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES            

              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
   /s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief 
Executive Officer  

February 27,
2015   

              Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon  
     
   Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
   February 27, 2015  

/s/ HERBERT SIMON 

Herbert Simon  
      
    Chairman Emeritus and Director  
      
    February 27, 2015  

/s/ RICHARD S. SOKOLOV 

Richard S. Sokolov  
      
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director  
      
    February 27, 2015  

/s/ MELVYN E. BERGSTEIN 

Melvyn E. Bergstein  
      
    Director  
      
    February 27, 2015  

/s/ LARRY C. GLASSCOCK 

Larry C. Glasscock  
      
    Director  
      
    February 27, 2014  

/s/ REUBEN S. LEIBOWITZ 

Reuben S. Leibowitz  
      
    Director  
      
    February 27, 2015  

/s/ J. ALBERT SMITH, JR. 

J. Albert Smith, Jr.  
      
    Director  
      
    February 27, 2015  

/s/ KAREN N. HORN 

Karen N. Horn  
      
    Director  
      
    February 27, 2015  

106  

Table of Contents   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ ALLAN HUBBARD 

Allan Hubbard  
     
   Director  
     
   February 27, 2015  

/s/ DANIEL C. SMITH 

Daniel C. Smith  
      
    Director  
      
    February 27, 2015  

/s/ ANDREW JUSTER 

Andrew Juster  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
      
    February 27, 2015  

/s/ STEVEN K. BROADWATER 

Steven K. Broadwater  
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
      
    February 27, 2015  

107  

Table of Contents    

SCHEDULE III     

          Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)     

108  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)     

109  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)     

110  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)     

111  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2014 
(Dollars in thousands)     

112  

Table of Contents    

      Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Schedule III as of December 31, 2014     

    (Dollars in thousands)     

All
periods presented exclude properties which were spun-off to Washington Prime Group Inc. as further discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.   

(1)      Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:    

The
changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 are as follows:   

The
unaudited aggregate cost of real estate assets for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2014 was $23,893,426.    

(2)      Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:    

The
changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 are as follows:   

Depreciation
of our investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income is calculated over the estimated original
lives of the assets as noted below.   

Buildings and Improvements   typically 10-35 years for the structure, 15 years for landscaping and
parking lot, and 10 years for HVAC equipment.   
            Tenant Allowances and Improvements   shorter of lease term or useful life.

(3)     Initial cost generally represents net book value at December 20, 1993, except for acquired properties
and new developments after December 20, 1993. Initial cost also includes any new developments that are opened during the current year. Costs of disposals and impairments of property are first
reflected as a reduction to cost capitalized subsequent to acquisition.
       (4)     Not developed/constructed by us or our predecessors. The date of construction represents the initial
acquisition date for assets in which we have acquired multiple interests.
       (5)     Initial cost for these properties is the cost at the date of consolidation for properties previously accounted
for under the equity method of accounting.
       (6)     Encumbrances represent face amount of mortgage debt and exclude any premiums or discounts.    
  113  

Table of Contents    

      EXHIBIT INDEX     

114  

Table of Contents   

115  

Table of Contents   

*    Represents
a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.    

116  

10-K
 2
 a2222982zf1_10-11.pdf
 10-K

<EX-12.1>
 3
 a2222982zex-12_1.htm
 EX-12.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 12.1        

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends   Unaudited, (in thousands)            

For
purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, the term "earnings" is the amount resulting from adding (a) pre-tax income from continuing operations before
adjustment for noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries or income or loss from equity investees, (b) fixed charges, (c) amortization of capitalized interest and
(d) distributed income of equity investees, reduced by (a) interest capitalized and (b) the noncontrolling interest in pre-tax income of subsidiaries that have not incurred fixed
charges. "Fixed charges" consist of (a) interest expensed and capitalized, (b) amortized premiums, discounts and capitalized expenses related to indebtedness and (c) an estimate
of the interest within rental expense.   

              There
are generally no restrictions on our ability to receive distributions from our joint ventures where no preference in favor of the other owners of the joint venture exists.   

              Ratios
have been revised for all years presented to reflect the spin-off of Washington Prime Group Inc.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 12.1   
 
  SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends Unaudited, (in thousands)   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-12.1>
 4
 a2222982zf3_ex-1211.pdf
 EX-12.1

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 a2222982zex-21_1.htm
 EX-21.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 21.1        

List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property Group, Inc.            

Subsidiary

Jurisdiction    

Simon Property Group, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

The Retail Property Trust  
     
  Massachusetts  

Simon Property Group (Illinois), L.P.   
     
  Illinois  

Simon Property Group (Texas), L.P.   
     
  Texas  

M.S. Management Associates, Inc.   
     
  Delaware  

Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd.   
     
  Bermuda  

Simon Global Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

Kravco Simon Investments, L.P.   
     
  Pennsylvania  

Simon Management Associates II, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Management Associates, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

CPG Partners, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

Prime Retail, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

SPG Mayflower, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon KP I S.a.r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg  

Simon KP II S.a.r.l.   
     
  Luxembourg  

Simon-Mills I, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Omits
names of subsidiaries that as of December 31, 2014 were not, in the aggregate, a "significant subsidiary."   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 21.1   
 
  List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property Group, Inc.   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-21.1>
 6
 a2222982zf5_ex-2111.pdf
 EX-21.1

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 a2222982zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1        

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

              We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

(1)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-179874) of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      (2)    Registration
Statement (Form S-4 No. 333-118427) of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      (3)    Registration
Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 333-64313, 333-101185 and 333-183213) pertaining to the Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan;
      (4)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-82471) pertaining to the Simon Property Group and Adopting Entities Matching Savings Plan; and
      (5)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63919) pertaining to the Corporate Property Investors, Inc. and Corporate Realty
Consultants, Inc. Employee Share Purchase Plan;    

of
our reports dated February 27, 2015 with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property Group, Inc. for the year ended
December 31, 2014.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 a2222982zf7_ex-2311.pdf
 EX-23.1

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 a2222982zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I,
David Simon, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and

5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date:
February 27, 2015   

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   
 
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 a2222982zf9_ex-3111.pdf
 EX-31.1

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 a2222982zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2        

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I,
Andrew Juster, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and
have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and

5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date:
February 27, 2015   

/s/ ANDREW JUSTER 

Andrew Juster 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   
 
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a2222982zf11_ex-3111.pdf
 EX-31.2

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a2222982zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32        

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

              In connection with the Annual Report of Simon Property Group, Inc. on Form 10-K for the period ending
December 31, 2014 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each of the undersigned, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as
adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Simon Property
Group, Inc.    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer  

February 27, 2015  

/s/ ANDREW JUSTER 

Andrew Juster 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

February 27, 2015  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32   
 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 a2222982zf13_ex-3211.pdf
 EX-32.1

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 spg-20141231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 spg-20141231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 spg-20141231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 spg-20141231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 spg-20141231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.PRE>
 20
 spg-20141231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

