<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110204_10-K_edgar_data_100885_0001193125-11-024531_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>16727619</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>457064</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3462161</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1389513</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4574332</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6335152</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>101</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-024531.hdr.sgml : 20110204
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110204170317
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-024531
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		31
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110204
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110204

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNION PACIFIC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000100885
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING [4011]
		IRS NUMBER:				132626465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			UT
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06075
		FILM NUMBER:		11575569

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179
		BUSINESS PHONE:		402 544 5214

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NoFlnul0L0NrhPS5yydUeasUoKxFkV3r6Sa8eYg7BcPqnvhYpLmpJB5m3Tgy2ghR
 fgDMBeGbeHaRbUiE1bmLKw==

 0001193125-11-024531.txt : 20110204

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K    
   (Mark One)        

[X]  
        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010       OR       

[    ]  
        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
                  For the transition period from
                       to
                         
    Commission File Number 1-6075         UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

UTAH   

13-2626465    
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   

(I.R.S. Employer     Identification No.)         1400 DOUGLAS STREET, OMAHA, NEBRASKA    
  (Address of principal executive offices)       68179       (Zip Code)       (402) 544-5000       (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)   
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       

Title of each Class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
     Common Stock (Par Value $2.50 per share)    
     
   New York Stock Exchange, Inc.         

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required
to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      
  Large accelerated filer  
               Accelerated filer                 Non-accelerated filer                 Smaller reporting company                

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).      
           Yes            
         No            
     As of June 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the registrant s Common Stock held by non-affiliates (using the New York
Stock Exchange closing price) was $38.3 billion.      The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock as of January 28, 2011 was
491,001,416.           

Table of Contents  

    Documents Incorporated by Reference    Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 5, 2011, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. The registrant s Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A.         UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Chairman s Letter    

3  

Directors and Senior Management    

4  

PART I    

Item 1.   
     
     Business    

5  

Item 1A.   
     
     Risk Factors    

10  

Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

13  

Item 2.   
     
     Properties    

13  

Item 3.   
     
     Legal Proceedings    

16  

Item 4.   
     
     [Reserved]    

19  

Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries    

19  

PART II    

Item 5.   
     
     Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

20  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    

22  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

23  

Critical Accounting Policies    

42  

Cautionary Information    

47  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

48  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

49  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

50  

Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

83  

Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and Procedures    

83  

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

84  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

85  

Item 9B.   
     
     Other Information    

86  

PART III    

Item 10.   
     
     Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance    

86  

Item 11.   
     
     Executive Compensation    

86  

Item 12.   
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

87  

Item 13.   
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence    

87  

Item 14.   
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

87  

PART IV    

Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

88  

Signatures    

89  

Certifications   

99  
        
         2   

Table of Contents  

   February 4, 2011        Fellow Shareholders:      As our country and our Company emerged from the shadow
of the economic recession, the men and women of Union Pacific demonstrated agility and resiliency to meet the evolving transportation needs of our customers. The result was a break-out performance in 2010 that culminated in a record year.
     The actions taken to support our core strategy of safety, service and customer value positioned us to successfully handle growing
volumes. With strengthening business demand, our service remained excellent and we achieved many new safety records. Customers gave us their highest satisfaction marks ever, and many rewarded us with new business. They recognize the value of our
diverse service offerings and the efficiency we add to their supply chains. In return, we ve kept our commitment, making strategic investments in infrastructure, facilities, equipment and technology.   
  These investments further support UP s commitment to our shareholders to increase profitability and grow financial returns. In 2010, we
achieved new financial milestones, including a 70.6 percent operating ratio and a 10.8 percent return on invested capital. We also returned more cash directly to shareholders, increasing the dividend 41 percent and repurchasing nearly $1.25 billion
of shares. UP s stock price reached new highs in 2010, increasing 45 percent and outpacing the S P 500 by more than 30 points.   
  With the foundation of a record year as our springboard, we look forward to even greater opportunities to grow our business, with the same
commitment to safely serving our customers and increasing our financial returns. One clear opportunity comes from an expanding global economy and greater international demand for freight transportation, which already accounts for almost one third of
UP s revenue base. The growing U.S. population alone is expected to increase freight demand 30 percent over the next 20 years and further crowd our highways. The Department of Transportation recognized that need when it set the goal of
developing strategies to attract 50 percent of all shipments 500 miles or greater to intermodal rail. They see what we see every day   America needs more rail.      Our strategic capital investments will help us tap into that future growth potential. This is illustrated by projects such as double tracking our Sunset Corridor, where we are speeding global commerce between Asia
and our nation s growing consumer base. This is a business model that works   invest, grow the business, increase returns and invest again.      Great service, coupled with our logistics expertise and continued investment for the future, enables UP to offer a strong door-to-door value proposition. Through efforts such as the  You ll Find Us 
advertising campaign, customers who never before considered rail are turning to us to coordinate shipments across town, across the country and around the world. Shippers also have a growing appreciation for UP s  green  profile and
our ability to deliver safe, fuel-efficient service.      It s clear that the opportunity to grow and prosper is well within our reach.
This is the mission of the 43,000-plus Union Pacific employees who are  dedicated to serve.  Through innovation, teamwork and some good old-fashioned hard work, we have set a course for growth designed to generate strong financial returns
in the years ahead.   

Chairman, President and      Chief Executive Officer   
         3   

Table of Contents  

      DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT    

BOARD OF DIRECTORS    

Andrew H. Card, Jr.      Consultant
and Professional     Speaker      Board Committees: Audit,
Finance           Erroll B. Davis, Jr.   
  Chancellor     University System of Georgia  
   Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits (Chair),
Corporate       Governance and Nominating       
   Thomas J. Donohue      President and  
  Chief Executive Officer     U.S. Chamber of Commerce  
   Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate
Governance       and Nominating       
   Archie W. Dunham      Retired Chairman  
  ConocoPhillips      Board Committees: Corporate   
   Governance and Nominating,       Finance    
      
     Judith Richards Hope   
  Distinguished Visitor from Practice     and Professor of Law  
  Georgetown University Law Center      Board Committees: Audit
(Chair),       Finance           Charles C. Krulak      General, USMC, Ret.     Former Commandant of the     United States Marine Corps      Board Committees: Audit, Finance       
   Michael R. McCarthy      Chairman  
  McCarthy Group, LLC      Board Committees: Audit,
Finance           Michael W. McConnell   
  General Partner     Brown Brothers Harriman   Co.  
   Board Committees: Audit,       Finance
(Chair)    
      
     Thomas F. McLarty III   
  President     McLarty Associates  
   Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate
Governance       and Nominating       
   Steven R. Rogel      Retired Chairman  
  Weyerhaeuser Company      Board Committees:
Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate Governance       and Nominating (Chair)           Jose H.
Villarreal      Advisor     Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer
      Feld, LLP      Board Committees:
Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate Governance   
   and Nominating           James R. Young      Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer     Union Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad Company    

SENIOR MANAGEMENT    

James R. Young      Chairman,
President and     Chief Executive Officer     Union Pacific
Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad Company      
   Charles R. Eisele      Senior Vice
President Strategic     Planning     Union Pacific
Corporation          Lance M. Fritz   
  Executive Vice President      Operations  
  Union Pacific Railroad Company          J. Michael Hemmer      Senior Vice President Law     and General Counsel     Union Pacific Corporation  
       Mary Sanders Jones      Vice President and Treasurer     Union Pacific Corporation   
      
     Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
  Executive Vice President Finance     and Chief Financial
Officer     Union Pacific Corporation      
   John J. Koraleski      Executive Vice President   
  Marketing and Sales     Union Pacific Railroad Company  
       Richard R. McClish      Vice President Continuous     Improvement     Union Pacific Railroad Company          Joseph E.
O Connor, Jr.      Vice President Purchasing  
  Union Pacific Railroad Company          Patrick J. O Malley      Vice President Taxes and General  
  Tax Counsel     Union Pacific Corporation   
      
     Michael A. Rock      Vice
President External Relations     Union Pacific Corporation      
   Barbara W. Schaefer      Senior Vice
President Human     Resources and Secretary     Union
Pacific Corporation          Lynden L. Tennison   
  Senior Vice President and     Chief Information Officer  
  Union Pacific Corporation          Jeffrey P. Totusek      Vice President and Controller     Union Pacific Corporation          Robert W.
Turner      Senior Vice President      Corporate
Relations     Union Pacific Corporation      
   William R. Turner      Vice President Labor
Relations     Union Pacific Railroad Company    

4   

Table of Contents  

     PART I           Item 1.  Business         GENERAL    
  Union Pacific Corporation owns one of America s leading transportation companies. Its principal operating company, Union Pacific Railroad
Company, links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country. Union Pacific Railroad Company serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers and provides Americans with a fuel-efficient, environmentally responsible and safe mode of
freight transportation. Union Pacific Railroad Company s diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Energy, Industrial Products and Intermodal. Union Pacific Railroad Company emphasizes excellent customer
service and offers competitive routes from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways. Union Pacific Railroad Company connects with Canada s rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major gateways to Mexico,
making it North America s premier rail franchise.      Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its
principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179. The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol
 UNP .      For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to  UPC ,
 Corporation ,  we ,  us , and  our  shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as  UPRR  or the
 Railroad .       Available Information    Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our
website (under the  Investors  caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents for our 2009 and 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, our 2010 Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, and our 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4, and 5, filed on behalf of directors and executive officers; and amendments to
such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website previously filed SEC reports and exhibits via a link to EDGAR on the SEC s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Additionally, our corporate governance materials, including By-Laws, Board
Committee charters, governance guidelines and policies, and codes of conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees are available on our website. From time to time, the corporate governance materials on our website may be updated as
necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the NYSE or as desirable to promote the effective and efficient governance of our company. Any security holder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of our SEC filings or corporate
governance materials should send a written request to: Secretary, Union Pacific Corporation, 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.      We
have included the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certifications regarding our public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31(a) and (b) to this report.
     References to our website address in this report, including references in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such
information should not be considered part of this report.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

    OPERATIONS       The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although revenue is analyzed by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one
segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. Additional information regarding our business and operations, including revenue and financial information and data and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk
Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item  Selected Financial Data, Item  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item  and the Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data, Item 8 (which include information regarding revenues, statements of income, and total assets).       

Operations    UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 31,953 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and
eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to    and from the Atlantic
Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast,  the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. Our freight traffic consists of bulk,
manifest, and premium business. Bulk traffic is primarily coal, grain, rock, or soda ash in unit trains   trains transporting a single commodity from one source to one destination. Manifest traffic is individual carload or less than train-load
business, including commodities  such  as  lumber,  steel,  paper,  and  food.  The   
      
     2010 Freight Revenue       

transportation of finished vehicles and intermodal containers is part of our premium business. In 2010, we generated freight revenues totaling $16.1 billion
from the following six commodity groups:         Agricultural    Transporting agricultural products generated 19%
of our freight revenues in 2010. Included in this commodity group are whole grains, products produced from grains, and food and beverage products, in addition to corn for ethanol production and its by products. With access to most major grain
markets, we provide a critical link between the Midwest and western producing areas and export terminals in the Pacific Northwest (the PNW) and Gulf ports, as well as Mexico. Unit trains of grain efficiently shuttle between domestic markets or
export terminals and producers. We also serve significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders, and ethanol producers in the Midwest, West, South, and Rocky Mountain region. Primary food commodities consist of a variety of
fresh and frozen fruits and vegetables, dairy products, and beverages, which are moved to major U.S. population centers for distribution and consumption. Express Lane and Produce Unit Train are premium perishable services that compete with the
trucking industry by moving fruits and vegetables from the PNW and California to destinations in the East. We transport frozen meat and poultry to the West Coast ports for export, while beverages, primarily beer, enter the U.S. from Mexico.
      Automotive    We are the largest automotive carrier west of the Mississippi River, serving vehicle assembly plants and
distributing imported vehicles from West Coast ports and Houston. We operate or access 43 vehicle distribution centers covering most major western U.S. cities. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, we provide expedited handling of
automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers to several assembly plants. We carry automotive materials bound for assembly plants in Mexico, the U.S., and Canada, and we also transport finished vehicles from manufacturing facilities in
Canada and Mexico. In 2010, transportation of finished vehicles and automotive materials accounted for 8% of our freight revenues.   
   Chemicals    Transporting chemicals provided 15% of our freight revenues in 2010. Our unique franchise enables us to serve the chemical
producing areas along the Gulf Coast, as well as the Rocky Mountain region. Two-thirds of the chemicals business consists of industrial chemicals, plastics, and liquid petroleum products. Plastics customers also use our storage-in-transit yards for
intermediate storage of plastic resins. Soda ash shipments originate in southwestern Wyoming and California, destined primarily for glass producing markets in the East, the West, and abroad. Fertilizer movements originate primarily in
  
         6   

Table of Contents  

the Gulf Coast region, as well as the West and Canada, bound for major agricultural users in the Midwest and the western U.S.   
   Energy    Coal transportation accounted for 22% of our 2010 freight revenues. Our transportation network allows us to transport coal and
coke to utilities, industrial facilities, interchange points, and water terminals. Water terminals provide access to the West and Gulf Coasts for export, and rail/barge interchange facilities on the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers and the Great Lakes.
We serve mines located in the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) of Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, southern Wyoming, and southern Illinois. SPRB coal represents the largest segment of the market, as utilities continue to favor its lower cost and
low-sulfur content.       Industrial Products    Our extensive network enables us to move numerous commodities between thousands
of origin and destination points throughout North America. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the PNW and Canada for destinations throughout the U.S. for new home construction and repair and remodeling. Commercial and highway construction
drives shipments of steel and construction products, consisting of rock, cement, and roofing materials. Paper and consumer goods, as well as furniture and appliances, are shipped to major metropolitan areas for consumers. Nonferrous metals and
industrial minerals are moved for industrial manufacturing. In addition, we provide efficient and safe transportation for government entities and waste companies. In 2010, transporting industrial products provided 16% of our freight revenues.
      Intermodal    Our intermodal business, which represented 20% of our freight revenues in 2010, includes international and
domestic shipments. International business consists of imported or exported container traffic that arrives at, or departs from, West Coast ports via ocean vessel. Domestic business includes domestic container and trailer traffic for major retailers
and other U.S. businesses that is usually sold through intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and consolidators) and truckload carriers.       Seasonality    Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity, such as certain agricultural and food products that have specific
growing and harvesting seasons, and the demand cycle for the commodity, such as intermodal traffic, which generally has a peak shipping season during the third quarter to meet holiday-related demand for consumer goods during the fourth quarter. The
peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably from year to year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international economies and currencies and the strength of harvests and market prices of
agricultural products. In response to an annual request delivered by the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to all of the Class I railroads operating in the U.S., we issue a publicly available letter
during the third quarter detailing our plans for handling traffic during the third and fourth quarters and providing other information requested by the STB.       Working Capital    At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had a working capital surplus, which in 2010 continued to be the result of our decision in 2009 to maintain additional cash reserves to enhance
liquidity in response to uncertain economic conditions. Historically, we have had a working capital deficit, which is common in our industry and does not indicate a lack of liquidity. We maintain adequate resources and, when necessary, have access
to capital to meet any daily and short-term cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.       Competition    We are subject to competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ship and barge operators, and pipelines. Our main rail competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. Its rail
subsidiary, BNSF Railway Company (BNSF), operates parallel routes in many of our main traffic corridors. In addition, we operate in corridors served by other railroads and motor carriers. Motor carrier competition exists for five of our six
commodity groups (excluding energy). Because of the proximity of our routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways, barges can be particularly competitive, especially for grain and bulk commodities. In addition to price competition, we face
competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. While we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks and barges are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future
improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the costs of these alternative modes of transportation, or legislation releasing motor carriers from their size or weight limitations, could have a material adverse effect on
our business.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

    Key Suppliers    We depend on two key domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives.
Due to the capital intensive nature of the locomotive manufacturing business and sophistication of this equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry in this industry. Therefore, if one of these domestic suppliers discontinues
manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience a significant cost increase and risk reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary to our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage
of our rail purchases, we utilize two suppliers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical for both maintenance of our network and replacement and improvement or expansion of our network and facilities. Rail
manufacturing also has high barriers to entry, and, if one of those suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience cost increases and difficulty obtaining rail.   
   Employees    Approximately 86% of our 42,884 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. Current labor
agreements became subject to modification on January 1, 2010. In January 2010, we began the current round of negotiations with the unions. Existing agreements remain in effect and will continue to remain in effect until new agreements are
reached or the Railway Labor Act s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention) are exhausted. Contract negotiations with the various unions
generally take place over an extended period of time, and we rarely experience work stoppages during negotiations.       Railroad Security
   Operating a safe and secure railroad is first among our critical priorities and is a primary responsibility of all our employees. This emphasis helps us protect the public, our employees, our customers, and operations across our rail
network. Our security efforts rely upon a wide variety of measures including employee training, cooperation with our customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies. While
federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives.   
   UPRR Security Measures    We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and to respond to any potential or actual
threats as they arise. The plan includes four levels of alert status, each with its own set of countermeasures. We employ our own police force, consisting of more than 225 commissioned and highly-trained officers. Our employees also undergo
recurrent security and preparedness training, as well as federally-mandated hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the sufficiency of our employee training programs to identify ways to increase preparedness and to improve
security.      We have an emergency response management center, which operates 24 hours a day. The center receives reports of emergencies,
dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from our employees, the public, and law enforcement and other government officials. In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public
events, and, as necessary, we may alter rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize risk to communities we serve and our operations. We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law. We also
design our operating plan to expedite the movement of hazardous material shipments to minimize the time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers. Additionally, in compliance with new Transportation
Security Agency regulations that took effect on April 1, 2009, we deployed new information systems and instructed employees in tracking and documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Material with customers and interchange partners.
     We also have established a number of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in
technology to The Officer on the Train program, which provides local law enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance their understanding of railroad operations and risks.   
   Cooperation with Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies    We work closely with government agencies ranging from the DOT and the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to local police departments, fire departments, and other first responders. In conjunction with DOT, DHS, and other railroads, we sponsor Operation Respond, which provides first responders with secure links to
electronic railroad resources, including mapping systems, shipment records, and other essential information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations. We also participate in the
  
         8   

Table of Contents  

National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism.   
  We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP, formerly the U.S. Customs Service), and the Military Transport Management
Command to monitor shipments entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports. We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to
develop, enhance, and maintain effective security processes throughout the global supply chain.       Cooperation with Customers and Trade
Associations    Along with other railroads, we work with the American Chemistry Council to train more than 200,000 emergency responders each year. We work closely with our chemical shippers to establish plant security plans, and we continue
to take steps to more closely monitor and track hazardous materials shipments. In cooperation with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and other railroads, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will
further limit the risk of releases of hazardous materials.       GOVERNMENTAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION    
   Governmental Regulation    Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulations, generally applicable to all
businesses. (See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings in Legal Proceedings, Item 3.)      The operations of the
Railroad are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the STB. The STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic; common carrier service of regulated traffic; freight car compensation; transfer, extension, or
abandonment of rail lines; and acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The STB has launched wide-ranging proceedings to explore whether to expand rail regulation; we will actively participate in these proceedings. Additionally, several bills
were introduced in the U.S. Senate in early 2011 that would expand the regulatory authority of the STB and could include new antitrust provisions. We are closely monitoring these proposed bills.   
  The operations of the Railroad also are subject to the regulations of the FRA and other federal and state agencies. On January 12, 2010, the
FRA issued final rules governing installation of Positive Train Control (PTC) by the end of 2015. Although still under development, PTC is a collision avoidance technology intended to override locomotive controls and stop a train before an accident.
The FRA acknowledged that projected costs will exceed projected benefits by a ratio of about 22 to one. We expect to invest approximately $250 million in the development of PTC during 2011.   
  DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and DHS, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of
safety, movement of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, emissions requirements, and equipment standards. On October 16, 2008, President Bush signed the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 into law, which, among other things, revised hours
of service rules for train and certain other railroad employees, mandated implementation of PTC, imposed passenger service requirements, addressed safety at rail crossings, increased the number of safety related employees of the FRA, and increased
fines that may be levied against railroads for safety violations. Additionally, various state and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste and seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in areas not preempted by
federal law.       Environmental Regulation    We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental statutes and
regulations pertaining to public health and the environment. The statutes and regulations are administered and monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and by various state environmental agencies. The primary laws affecting our
operations are the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, regulating the management and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, regulating the cleanup of contaminated
properties; the Clean Air Act, regulating air emissions; and the Clean Water Act, regulating waste water discharges.      Information
concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental,
Item 7 and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A.  Risk Factors     
  The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this report, including
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8.       We Must Manage Fluctuating Demand for Our Services and Network Capacity    If there is significant demand for our services that exceeds the designed capacity of our network, we may experience network
difficulties, including congestion and reduced velocity, that could compromise the level of service we provide to our customers. This level of demand may also compound the impact of weather and weather-related events on our operations and velocity.
Although we continue to improve our transportation plan, add capacity, and improve operations at our yards and other facilities, we cannot be sure that these measures will fully or adequately address any service shortcomings resulting from demand
exceeding our planned capacity. We may experience other operational or service difficulties related to network capacity, dramatic and unplanned increases or decreases of demand for rail service with respect to one or more of our commodity groups, or
other events that could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In the event that we experience significant reductions
of demand for rail services with respect to one or more of our commodity groups, we may experience increased costs associated with resizing our operations, including higher unit operating costs and costs for the storage of locomotives, rail cars,
and other equipment; work-force adjustments; and other related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   We Are Subject to Significant Governmental Regulation    We are subject to governmental regulation by a significant number of federal,
state, and local authorities covering a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, economic (as discussed below), and other matters. Many laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits, and other
authorizations, and we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Governments or regulators may change the legislative or
regulatory frameworks within which we operate without providing us any recourse to address any adverse effects on our business, including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution, business relationships
with other railroads, calculation of our cost of capital or other inputs relevant to computing our revenue adequacy, the prices we charge, and costs and expenses. Significant legislative activity in Congress or regulatory activity by the STB could
expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network, facilities and equipment and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity. As part of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, railroad carriers must implement PTC by the end of 2015, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make other capital investments. One or more consolidations of Class
I railroads could also lead to increased regulation of the rail industry.       We Are Required to Transport Hazardous Materials 
  Federal laws require railroads, including us, to transport hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. Any rail accident or other incident or accident on our network, at our facilities, or at the facilities of our
customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or TIH) materials such as chlorine, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and
remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be
Affected by General Economic Conditions    Prolonged severe adverse domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of financial and credit markets, including the availability of short- and long-term debt financing, may affect the
producers and consumers of the commodities we carry and may have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity and our results of operations and financial condition.       We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers    We face competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ships, barges, and pipelines. In addition to price competition, we
face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. While we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks and barges are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future
improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation, or legislation releasing motor carriers from their size or weight limitations, could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial condition,   
         10   

Table of Contents  

and liquidity. Additionally, any future consolidation of the rail industry could materially affect the competitive environment in which we operate.   
   Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations as the Majority of Our Employees Belong to Labor Unions and Labor Agreements 
  The U.S. Class I railroads are party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could
result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.
Additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise our service reliability or significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other benefits, which
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       Severe Weather Could Result
in Significant Business Interruptions and Expenditures    As a railroad with a vast network, we are exposed to severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, mudslides or landslides,
extreme temperatures, and significant precipitation that may cause business interruptions, including line outages on our rail network, that can adversely affect our entire rail network and result in increased costs, increased liabilities, and
decreased revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We
Rely on Technology and Technology Improvements in Our Business Operations    We rely on information technology in all aspects of our business. If we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or if we are unable to implement
new technology, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity. Additionally, if we experience significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could experience a service interruption, safety
failure, security breach, or other operational difficulties, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be Subject to Various Claims and Lawsuits That Could Result in Significant Expenditures    As a railroad with operations in densely populated urban areas and other cities and a vast rail network,
we are exposed to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability, and other matters. Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail
accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
     The Availability of Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations      Changes in demographics, training
requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to meet demand for rail service. Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services and a lack of network fluidity may exacerbate such risks, which could
have a negative impact on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.          We Are Subject to Significant Environmental Laws and Regulations    Due to the nature of the railroad business, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and
regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waters; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and hazardous material or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous
and non-hazardous waste in our operations, and we did so in our former operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties, and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties we
currently own. Environmental liabilities have arisen and may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. We have been and may be subject to allegations or findings that we have violated, or
are strictly liable under, these laws or regulations. We could incur significant costs as a result of any of the foregoing, and we may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown, or future environmental
contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

    We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or Regulatory Responses to Climate Change 
  Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses,
including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, (b) use significant amounts of energy in
producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other
manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we
carry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the
markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Finally, we could face increased costs
related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or
other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   Rising or Elevated Fuel Costs and Whether We Are Able to Mitigate These Costs with Fuel Surcharges Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our
Business    Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our transportation expenses. Diesel fuel prices are subject to dramatic fluctuations, and significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Although we currently are able to recover a significant amount of our increased fuel expenses through revenue from fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will always be able to mitigate rising or elevated fuel costs through surcharges. Future
market conditions or legislative or regulatory activities could adversely affect our ability to apply fuel surcharges or adequately recover increased fuel costs through fuel surcharges. International, political, and economic circumstances affect
fuel prices and supplies. Weather can also affect fuel supplies and limit domestic refining capacity. If a fuel supply shortage were to arise, higher fuel prices could, despite our fuel surcharge programs, have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Utilize Capital Markets    Due to the significant capital
expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements. We utilize long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper from time-to-time,
and we pledge certain of our receivables. Significant instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or prohibit our
access to, and significantly increase the cost of, commercial paper and other financing sources, including bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt, including corporate bonds. A deterioration of our financial condition could result
in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment grade, which could prohibit or restrict us from utilizing our current receivables securitization facility or accessing external sources of short- and long-term debt financing and significantly
increase the costs associated with utilizing the receivables securitization facility and issuing both commercial paper and long-term debt.       We Are Subject to Legislative, Regulatory, and Legal Developments Involving Taxes    Taxes are a significant part of our expenses. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income, payroll,
property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Are Dependent on Certain Key
Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail    Due to the capital intensive nature and sophistication of locomotive equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry. Therefore, if one of the domestic suppliers of high horsepower
locomotives discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience significant cost increases and reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary to our operations. Additionally, for
a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two suppliers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical to our operations for rail replacement programs, maintenance,
  
         12   

Table of Contents  

and for adding additional network capacity, new rail and storage yards, and expansions of existing facilities. This industry similarly has high barriers to entry, and if one of these suppliers
discontinues operations for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience both significant cost increases for rail purchases and difficulty obtaining sufficient rail for maintenance and other projects.   
   We May Be Affected by Acts of Terrorism, War, or Risk of War    Our rail lines, facilities, and equipment, including rail cars carrying
hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Terrorist attacks, or other similar events, any government response thereto, and war or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial
condition, and liquidity. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of our current coverages could increase dramatically, or certain coverages may not be available to us in the future.         Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments        None.   
     Item 2.  Properties        We employ a variety of assets in the management and operation of our rail business. Our rail network covers 23 states in the western two-thirds of the U.S.   

13   

Table of Contents  

    TRACK       Our rail network includes 31,953 route miles. We own 26,083 miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. The following table describes track miles at December 31, 2010 and 2009.
      
     HARRIMAN DISPATCHING CENTER    
  The Harriman Dispatching Center (HDC), located in Omaha, Nebraska, is our primary dispatching facility. It is linked to regional dispatching and
locomotive management facilities at various locations along our network. HDC employees coordinate moves of locomotives and trains, manage traffic and train crews on our network, and coordinate interchanges with other railroads. Approximately 900
employees currently work on-site in the facility.       RAIL FACILITIES       In addition to our track structure, we operate numerous facilities, including terminals for intermodal and other freight; rail yards for train-building (classification yards), switching, storage-in-transit (the
temporary storage of customer goods in rail cars prior to shipment) and other activities; offices to administer and manage our operations; dispatching centers to direct traffic on our rail network; crew quarters to house train crews along our
network; and shops and other facilities for fueling, maintenance, and repair of locomotives and repair and maintenance of rail cars and other equipment. The following tables include the major yards and terminals on our system:   

14   

Table of Contents  

RAIL EQUIPMENT
      Our equipment includes owned and leased locomotives and rail cars; heavy maintenance equipment and machinery; other equipment and
tools in our shops, offices, and facilities; and vehicles for maintenance, transportation of crews, and other activities. As of December 31, 2010, we owned or leased the following units of equipment:   
   
     CAPITAL EXPENDITURES    
  Our rail network requires significant annual capital investments for replacement, improvement, and expansion. These investments enhance safety,
support the transportation needs of our customers, and improve our operational efficiency. Additionally, we add new locomotives and freight cars to our fleet to replace older, less efficient equipment, to support growth and customer demand, and to
reduce our impact on the environment through the acquisition of more fuel efficient and low-emission locomotives.       2010 Capital
Expenditures    During 2010, we made capital investments totaling $2.5 billion, nearly all of which was cash spending. (See the capital expenditures table in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financial Condition, Item 7.)   
         15   

Table of Contents  

    Infrastructure Expansion    With expected long-term growth in the intermodal market, we
commenced construction of a new intermodal terminal in Joliet, Illinois, in the spring of 2009 and completed the initial phase in August 2010. This new facility supports customer growth by increasing the Railroad s international and domestic
container capacity and improving rail traffic efficiencies in Chicago, the nation s largest rail center. Customers across our network benefit from the Joliet facility s annual capacity of 500,000 intermodal containers.   
   2011 Capital Expenditures    In 2011, we expect to make capital investments of approximately $3.2 billion, including expenditures for
PTC of approximately $250 million. We may revise our 2011 capital plan if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See discussion of our 2011 capital plan in
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   2011 Outlook, Item 7.)       OTHER    
   Equipment Encumbrance    Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $3.2 billion and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively, served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire such railroad equipment.   
  As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying
indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the
mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds.   
   Environmental Matters    Certain of our properties are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the
protection of the environment. (See discussion of environmental issues in Business   Governmental and Environmental Regulation, Item 1, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.)         Item 3.  Legal Proceedings     
  From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and litigation that occur in connection with our business. We routinely assess our
liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest available information and, when necessary, we seek input from our third-party advisors when making these assessments. Consistent with SEC rules and requirements, we
describe below material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business), material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities, other proceedings arising under federal, state, or
local environmental laws and regulations (including governmental proceedings involving potential fines, penalties, or other monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000), and such other pending matters that we may determine to be appropriate.
      ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS       As we
reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2005, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) considers the Railroad a potentially responsible party for the Omaha Lead Site. The Omaha Lead Site consists of approximately 25 square miles of
residential property in the eastern part of Omaha, Nebraska, allegedly impacted by air emissions from two former lead smelters/refineries. One refinery was operated by ASARCO. The EPA identified the Railroad as a potentially responsible party
because more than 60 years ago the Railroad owned land that was leased to ASARCO. The Railroad disputes both the legal and technical basis of the EPA s allegations. It has nonetheless engaged in extensive negotiations with the EPA. The EPA
issued a Unilateral Administrative Order with an effective date of December 16, 2005, directing the Railroad to implement an interim remedy at the site at an estimated cost of $50 million. Failure to comply with the order without just cause
could subject the Railroad to penalties of up to $37,500 per day and triple the EPA s costs in performing the work. The Railroad believes it has just cause not to comply with the order, but it offered to perform some of the work specified in
the order as a compromise. On August 5, 2009, the Railroad received a Special Notice Letter from EPA directing UPRR   
         16   

Table of Contents  

to perform environmental remediation at approximately 9,000 residential yards in Omaha and to take other remedial measures as part of a final remedy. The Railroad continues to contest its
purported liability for these costs but has submitted an offer to the EPA to attempt to negotiate a resolution of the matter. On June 23, 2010, the Railroad filed suit in federal district court in Omaha, Nebraska against the EPA and its
Administrator under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the Administrative Procedure Act and the Federal Records Act asking the court to compel EPA to respond fully to outstanding FOIA requests and to prevent EPA from destroying records. The
court granted the Railroad a temporary restraining order prohibiting further document destruction. On August 26, 2010, the Court entered an agreed Preliminary Injunction preventing destruction of records by EPA. In November 2010, the Railroad
reached a tentative, confidential settlement agreement subject to further negotiation to resolve its liability at the Omaha Lead Site. The FOIA litigation has been stayed pending possible resolution of the case.   
  As we reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2005, the Illinois Attorney General s office filed a complaint against the Railroad in
the Circuit Court for the Twentieth Judicial Circuit (St. Clair County) for injunctive and other relief on November 28, 2005, alleging a diesel fuel spill from an above-ground storage tank in a rail yard in Dupo, St. Clair County, Illinois. The
State of Illinois seeks to enjoin UPRR from further violations and a monetary penalty. The amount of the proposed penalty, although uncertain, could exceed $100,000.      As we reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we received notices from EPA Region 8 and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) alleging that we may be liable under federal
environmental laws for violating the Clean Water Act and the Oil Pollution Prevention Act relating to derailments and spills and UPRR s Spill Prevention Countermeasure and Control Plans and its Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans in Colorado,
Utah, and Wyoming. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings because we are continuing to investigate and negotiate with the EPA Region 8 and DOJ. The amount of the proposed penalty, although uncertain, could exceed $100,000.
     We received notices from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are or may be liable under federal or state
environmental laws for remediation costs at various sites throughout the U.S., including sites on the Superfund National Priorities List or state superfund lists. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings and suits because of the
number of potentially responsible parties involved, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs.   
  Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.       OTHER MATTERS
       U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Dispute and Litigation    As we reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, CBP directed its field offices to issue penalties against the Railroad in December 2007 for discoveries of illegal drugs in railcars crossing the border from Mexico. The cars are in trains delivered by
Mexican railroads directly to CBP; the Railroad receives the trains only after CBP inspects them. Additionally, CBP imposed or reinstated earlier penalties that had been held in abeyance while the Railroad and CBP pursued a collective plan to
address drug smuggling. In some instances, CBP seized railcars in which drugs were found.      On July 31, 2008, the Railroad filed a
complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Nebraska asking the court to enter (1) a judgment declaring that CBP s penalties and seizures are invalid and unenforceable and (2) preliminary and permanent injunctions
prohibiting CBP from enforcing penalties and holding seized cars and directing CBP to refrain from issuing additional penalties and from future equipment seizures. The total amount of penalties assessed against the Railroad at that time was
approximately $61.4 million. The parties discussed settlement, and the case in the District Court was stayed. During this period, no new penalties were issued and no cars were seized.   
  Settlement discussions were unsuccessful. As a result, the Railroad reinstituted its lawsuit on February 18, 2009. U.S. Department of Justice
(DOJ) then filed enforcement actions in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas on March 17, 2009, and in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California on March 18, 2009, and nine separate forfeiture
complaints in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona on March 19, 2009 (covering ten seized cars).   
         17   

Table of Contents  

   The Railroad is awaiting a decision on its motion for Summary Judgment from the Nebraska court. The
Railroad also filed motions in California, Texas, and Arizona to transfer (to Nebraska), dismiss or stay the cases in those courts. The California and Texas courts granted UP s motion to transfer venue to Nebraska. The Arizona Court has not
issued a ruling.      During the third quarter of 2010, CBP notified the Railroad of additional penalties for drug discoveries. Since then,
the Railroad received additional penalties for other drug discoveries. The total outstanding penalty amount as of December 31, 2010, was approximately $376 million. Because the Railroad believes that CBP lacks statutory authority to issue these
fines, the Railroad will vigorously defend against these penalties. The Railroad also is participating in high-level discussions with the Commissioner of CBP to address the fines and seizures. Therefore, we currently believe that these matters will
not have a material adverse effect on any of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       Antitrust Litigation
   As we reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, 20 small rail shippers (many of whom are represented by the same law firms) filed virtually identical antitrust lawsuits in various federal
district courts against us and four other Class I railroads in the U.S. The original plaintiff filed the first of these claims in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey on May 14, 2007, and the additional plaintiffs filed claims in district
courts in various states, including Florida, Illinois, Alabama, Pennsylvania, and the District of Columbia. These suits allege that the named railroads engaged in price-fixing by establishing common fuel surcharges for certain rail traffic.
     We received additional complaints following the initial claim, increasing the total number of complaints to 30. In addition to suits
filed by direct purchasers of rail transportation, a few of the suits involve plaintiffs alleging that they are or were indirect purchasers of rail transportation and seek to represent a purported class of indirect purchasers of rail transportation
that paid fuel surcharges. These complaints added allegations under state antitrust and consumer protection laws. On November 6, 2007, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered that all of the rail fuel surcharge cases be
transferred to Judge Paul Friedman of the U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. Subsequently, the direct purchaser plaintiffs and the indirect purchaser plaintiffs filed Consolidated
Amended Class Action Complaints against UPRR and three other Class I railroads.      One additional shipper filed a separate antitrust suit
during 2008. Subsequently, the shipper voluntarily dismissed the action without prejudice.      On October 10, 2008, Judge Friedman
heard oral arguments with respect to the defendant railroads  motions to dismiss. In a ruling on November 7, 2008, Judge Friedman denied the motion with respect to the direct purchasers  complaint, and pretrial proceedings are
underway in that case. On December 31, 2008, Judge Friedman ruled that the allegations of the indirect purchasers based upon state antitrust, consumer protection, and unjust enrichment laws must be dismissed. He also ruled, however, that the
plaintiffs could proceed with their claim for injunctive relief under the federal antitrust laws, which is identical to a claim by the direct purchaser plaintiffs.      The indirect purchasers appealed Judge Friedman s ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. On April 16, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed Judge
Friedman s ruling dismissing the indirect purchasers  claims based on various state laws. On June 8, 2010, the court rejected the indirect purchasers  requests for a rehearing of their appeal and a hearing en banc by the entire
court. On September 8, 2010, the indirect purchaser plaintiffs filed a Petition for Certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court. The railroad defendants filed their response on November 9, 2010, urging the Court not to review the lower
courts  decisions. On December 13, 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the indirect purchaser plaintiffs  Petition for Certiorari.      The direct purchaser plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification on March 18, 2010. The railroad defendants filed their opposition to this motion on July 1, 2010. Judge Friedman conducted a
hearing on October 6 and 7, 2010, on the class certification issue and has yet to issue a decision.      We deny the allegations that
our fuel surcharge programs violate the antitrust laws or any other laws. We believe that these lawsuits are without merit, and we will vigorously defend our actions. Therefore, we currently believe that these matters will not have a material
adverse effect on any of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

      Item 4.  [Reserved]     
      Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries     
  The Board of Directors typically elects and designates our executive officers on an annual basis at the board meeting held in conjunction with the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and they hold office until their successors are elected. Executive officers also may be elected and designated throughout the year, as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. There are no family relationships
among the officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. The following table sets forth certain information, as of February 1, 2011, relating to the executive
officers.       

Name   
      
    Position   
      
    Age   
      
    Business Experience During Past Five Years    
 
    James R. Young   
      
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and the Railroad  
      
  58  
      
  [1]   

Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
      
  Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer of UPC and the Railroad  
      
  53  
      
  Current Position   

J. Michael Hemmer   
      
  Senior Vice President   Law and General Counsel of UPC and the Railroad  
      
  61  
      
  Current Position   

Barbara W. Schaefer   
      
  Senior Vice President   Human Resources and Secretary of UPC and the Railroad  
      
  57  
      
  Current Position   

Jeffrey P. Totusek   
      
  Vice President and Controller of UPC and Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of the Railroad  
      
  52  
      
  [2]   

Lance M. Fritz   
      
  Executive Vice President   Operations of the Railroad  
      
  48  
      
  [3]   

John J. Koraleski   
      
  Executive Vice President   Marketing and Sales of the Railroad  
      
  60  
      
  Current Position        

[1]   
     Mr. Young was elected Chief Executive Officer and President of UPC and the Railroad effective January 1, 2006. He was elected to the additional
position of Chairman effective February 1, 2007.           

[2]   
     Mr. Totusek was elected to his current position effective January 1, 2008. He previously was Assistant Vice President   Financial Analysis
of the Railroad.           

[3]   
     Mr. Fritz was elected to his current position effective September 1, 2010. He previously was Vice President   Operations of the Railroad,
effective January 1, 2010. Mr. Fritz previously served as Vice President   Labor Relations effective March 1, 2008, Regional Vice President   South, effective July 1, 2006, and Regional Vice President   North,
effective April 1, 2005.       
         19   

Table of Contents  

     PART II           Item 5.  Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
  Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP . The following table presents the dividends
declared and the high and low closing prices of our common stock for each of the indicated quarters.       
     
    At
January 28, 2011, there were 491,001,416 shares of outstanding common stock and 33,537 common shareholders of record. On that date, the closing price of the common stock on the NYSE was $93.54. Through December 31, 2010, we have paid dividends
to our common shareholders during each of the past 111 years. We declared dividends totaling $653 million in 2010 and $544 million in 2009. On May 6, 2010, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.33 per share, payable beginning on
July 1, 2010, to shareholders of record on May 28, 2010. On November 18, 2010, we increased the quarterly dividend for a second time to $0.38 per share, payable beginning January 3, 2011 to shareholders of record on
November 30, 2010. We are subject to certain restrictions regarding retained earnings with respect to the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends increased to $12.9 billion at
December 31, 2010, from $11.6 billion at December 31, 2009. (See discussion of this restriction in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources,
Item 7.) We do not believe the restriction on retained earnings will affect our ability to pay dividends, and we currently expect to pay dividends in 2011 comparable to 2010.   
   Comparison Over One- and Three-Year Periods    The following table presents the cumulative total shareholder returns, assuming
reinvested dividends, over one- and three-year periods for the Corporation, a peer group index (comprised of CSX Corporation and Norfolk Southern Corporation), the Dow Jones Transportation Index (Dow Jones), and the Standard   Poor s
500 Stock Index (S P 500).       
 
         20   

Table of Contents  

    Five-Year Performance Comparison    The following graph provides an indicator of cumulative
total shareholder returns for the Corporation as compared to the peer group index (described above), the Dow Jones, and the S P 500. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in the common stock of Union Pacific Corporation and each
index was $100 on December 31, 2005 and that all dividends were reinvested.   

Purchases of Equity Securities    During 2010, we repurchased 17,556,522 shares of our common stock at an
average price of $75.51. The following table presents common stock repurchases during each month for the fourth quarter of 2010:       

[a]   
     Total number of shares purchased during the quarter includes approximately 563,220 shares delivered or attested to UPC by employees to pay stock option
exercise prices, satisfy excess tax withholding obligations for stock option exercises or vesting of retention units, and pay withholding obligations for vesting of retention shares.       

[b]   
     On May 1, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to 40 million shares of our common stock through March 31, 2011. We
may make these repurchases on the open market or through other transactions. Our management has sole discretion with respect to determining the timing and amount of these transactions.       
  On February 3, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to 40 million additional shares of our common stock under a new program
effective from April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2014.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.  Selected Financial Data     
  The following table presents as of, and for the years ended, December 31, our selected financial data for each of the last five years. The
selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and with the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. The
information below is not necessarily indicative of future financial condition or results of operations.       

[a]   
     Includes fuel surcharge revenue of $1,237 million, $605 million, $2,323 million, $1,478 million, and $1,619 million for 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
respectively, which partially offsets increased operating expenses for fuel. Fuel surcharge revenue is not comparable from year to year due to implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs in each respective year. (See further
discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Operating Revenues, Item 7.)       

[b]   
     Earnings per share and dividends have been restated to reflect the May 28, 2008 stock split.       

[c]   
     Equity per common share is calculated as follows: common shareholders  equity divided by common shares issued less treasury shares outstanding. Shares
have been adjusted to reflect the May 28, 2008 stock split.           

[d]   
     Operating margin is defined as operating income divided by operating revenues. Operating ratio is defined as operating expenses divided by operating
revenues.           

[e]   
     Debt to capital is determined as follows: total debt divided by total debt plus equity.       

[f]   
     Return on average common shareholders  equity is determined as follows: Net income divided by average common shareholders  equity.
      
         22   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations        The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and
applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this
Item 7.      The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we
analyze revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network.   
   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY        2010 Results    

Safety    During 2010, we continued our positive, multi-year trend in safety performance by setting records in many of our safety metrics. The
employee injury incident rate per 200,000 man-hours declined 4% from 2009 to its lowest level ever. Our continued focus on derailment prevention resulted in another strong performance as our incident rate finished at 10.54 per million train
miles, slightly behind 2009 record results. However, the severity of those incidents was lower, resulting in a 12% reduction in associated costs. With respect to public safety, we closed 286 grade crossings to reduce our exposure to incidents. We
also continued installing video cameras on our locomotives, which assist us in reviewing grade crossing incidents, and we now have camera-equipped locomotives in the lead position of over 97% of our through-freight trains. During 2010, the rate of
grade crossing incidents per million train miles increased 10% from record low levels of 2009, as both highway and rail traffic increased in conjunction with economic improvement. Overall, our 2010 safety results reflect our continued focus on the
safety of our employees and the public.          

Financial Performance    In 2010, we generated record operating income of $5.0 billion, a 47% increase over 2009, reflecting a 13% increase in
volume, core pricing gains, and improved productivity. Improved economic conditions increased demand for our services across almost all market sectors compared to 2009, a year in which economic conditions substantially reduced demand for rail
service. We leveraged additional traffic volumes during 2010 by effectively utilizing our assets and minimizing operational cost increases compared to 2009. These achievements translated into an all-time record operating ratio of 70.6% for 2010,
outpacing our previous record of 76.1% set in 2009. Net income of $2.8 billion also surpassed our previous milestone set in 2008, translating into earnings of $5.53 per diluted share for 2010.      

Freight Revenues    Our freight revenues grew 20% year-over-year to $16.1 billion. Freight revenues and volumes for all six commodity groups
increased. Overall, volume increased 13% in 2010, with particularly strong growth in automotive, intermodal, and industrial products shipments. Core pricing gains and higher fuel surcharges (due to higher fuel prices, volume growth, and new fuel
surcharge provisions in contracts renegotiated in 2010) also drove the growth in freight revenue in 2010 compared to 2009. We continued to focus on improving the reinvestibility of our business, and we have repriced approximately 88% of our business
since 2004.          

Network Operations    In 2010, we continued operating an efficient and fluid network, effectively handling the 13% increase in carloads compared to
2009. As reported to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), average train speed decreased 4% in 2010 compared to a record-setting 2009. Maintenance activities and weather disruptions, combined with higher volume levels, negatively impacted our
average train speed. Average terminal dwell time increased 2% while average rail car inventory decreased 3% in 2010 compared to 2009. We maintained more freight cars off-line and retired a number of old freight cars, which drove a decrease in
average rail car inventory during the year. In 2010, customer satisfaction improved, surpassing a record established in 2009, an indication that our ongoing efforts to improve operations again translated into better customer service.

Asset Utilization    In response to economic conditions and lower revenue in 2009, we implemented productivity initiatives to improve efficiency
and reduce costs, in addition to adjusting our resources to reflect lower demand. By the end of 2009, we had removed from service approximately 26% of our multiple purpose locomotives and 18% of our freight car inventory. As volume increased 13%
from      
         23   

Table of Contents  

2009 levels, we returned a portion of these assets to active service. At the end of 2010, we continued to maintain in storage approximately 17% of our multiple purpose locomotives and 14% of our
freight car inventory, reflecting our ability to effectively leverage our assets as volumes return to our network.          

Fuel Prices    Fuel prices generally increased throughout 2010 as the economy improved. Our average diesel fuel price per gallon increased nearly
20% from January to December of 2010, driven by higher crude oil barrel prices and conversion spreads. Compared to 2009, our diesel fuel price per gallon consumed increased 31%, driving operating expenses up by $566 million (excluding any impact
from year-over-year volume increases). To partially offset the effect of higher fuel prices, we reduced our consumption rate by 3% during the year, saving approximately 27 million gallons of fuel. The use of newer, more fuel efficient
locomotives; increased use of distributed locomotive power (the practice of distributing locomotives throughout a train rather than positioning them all in the lead resulting in safer and more efficient train operations); fuel conservation programs;
and efficient network operations and asset utilization all contributed to this improvement.          

Free Cash Flow    Cash generated by operating activities (adjusted for the reclassification of our receivables securitization facility) totaled
$4.5 billion, yielding record free cash flow of $1.4 billion in 2010. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities (adjusted for the reclassification of our receivables securitization facility), less cash used in investing
activities and dividends paid.         Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting
principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe free cash flow is important in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional
external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow
(non-GAAP measure):        

[a]   
     Effective January 1, 2010, a new accounting standard required us to account for receivables transferred under our receivables securitization facility
as secured borrowings in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and as financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The receivables securitization facility is included in our free cash flow calculation to adjust cash
provided by operating activities as though our receivables securitization facility had been accounted for under the new accounting standard for all periods presented.           2011 Outlook        

Safety    Operating a safe railroad benefits our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and the public. We will continue using a multi-faceted
approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, and training, and engaging our employees. We will continue implementing Total Safety Culture (TSC) throughout our operations. TSC is designed to establish, maintain,
reinforce, and promote safe practices among co-workers. This process allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. Reducing grade crossing incidents is a critical aspect of our safety programs, and we will
continue our efforts to maintain and close crossings; install video cameras on locomotives; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies),
various industry programs, and engaging local communities.          

Transportation Plan    To build upon our success in recent years, we will continue evaluating traffic flows and network logistic patterns, which
can be quite dynamic, to identify additional opportunities to simplify operations, remove network variability, and improve network efficiency and asset utilization. We plan to adjust manpower and our locomotive and rail car fleets to meet customer
needs and put      
         24   

Table of Contents  

us in a position to handle demand changes. We will also continue utilizing industrial engineering techniques to improve productivity.      

Fuel Prices    Uncertainty about the economy makes fuel price projections difficult, and we could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they
are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors. To reduce the impact of fuel price on earnings, we will continue to seek recovery from our customers through our fuel
surcharge programs and to expand our fuel conservation efforts.          

Capital Plan    In 2011, we plan to make total capital investments of approximately $3.2 billion, including expenditures for Positive Train Control
(PTC), which may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources  
Capital Plan.)          

Positive Train Control    In response to a legislative mandate to implement PTC by the end of 2015, we expect to spend approximately $250 million
during 2011 on developing PTC. We currently estimate that PTC will cost us approximately $1.4 billion to implement by the end of 2015, in accordance with rules issued by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA). This includes costs for installing
the new system along our tracks, upgrading locomotives to work with the new system, and adding digital data communication equipment so all the parts of the system can communicate with each other. During 2011, we plan to begin testing the technology
to evaluate its effectiveness.          

Financial Expectations    We remain cautious about economic conditions, but anticipate volume to increase from 2010 levels. In addition, we expect
volume, price, and productivity gains to offset expected higher costs for fuel, labor inflation, depreciation, casualty costs, and property taxes to drive operating ratio improvement.      
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS        Operating Revenues    
   
    Freight revenues are revenues
generated by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our
customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as a reduction to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We
recognize freight revenues as freight moves from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.   
  Other revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn
when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.   
  Freight revenues and volume levels for all six commodity groups increased during 2010 as a result of economic improvement in many market sectors.
We experienced particularly strong volume growth in automotive, intermodal, and industrial products shipments. Core pricing gains and higher fuel surcharges also increased freight revenues and drove a 6% improvement in ARC.   
  Freight revenues and volume levels for all six commodity groups decreased during 2009, reflecting continued economic weakness. We experienced the
largest volume declines in automotive and industrial   
         25   

Table of Contents  

products shipments. Lower fuel surcharges due to lower fuel prices also reduced freight revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. ARC decreased 7% during the full year, driven by lower fuel cost
recoveries, partially offset by core pricing gains of approximately 5%. Fuel cost recoveries include fuel surcharge revenue and the impact of resetting the base fuel price for certain traffic, which is described below in more detail.   
  Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated freight revenues of $1.2
billion, $605 million, and $2.3 billion in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Higher fuel prices, volume growth, and new fuel surcharge provisions in contracts renegotiated during the year increased fuel surcharge amounts in 2010. Furthermore, for
certain periods during 2009, fuel prices dropped below the base at which our mileage-based fuel surcharge begins, which resulted in no fuel surcharge recovery for associated shipments during those periods.   
  Fuel surcharge revenue is not entirely comparable to prior periods due to implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs. In April
2007, we converted regulated traffic, which represents approximately 20% of our current revenue base, to mileage-based fuel surcharge programs. In addition, we have converted and continue to convert portions of our non-regulated traffic to
mileage-based fuel surcharge programs. At the time of conversion, we reset the base fuel price at which the new mileage-based fuel surcharges take effect. Resetting the fuel price at which the fuel surcharge begins, in conjunction with rebasing the
affected transportation rates to include a portion of what had been in the fuel surcharge, does not materially change our freight revenue as higher base rates offset lower fuel surcharge revenue.   
  In 2010, other revenues increased from 2009 due primarily to higher revenues at our subsidiaries that broker intermodal and automotive services.
Assessorial revenues also increased in 2010 reflecting higher volume levels during the year.      In 2009, other revenue decreased from 2008
due primarily to lower revenues at one of our subsidiaries that brokers intermodal and automotive services. Assessorial revenues also decreased in 2009 reflecting lower volume levels during the year.   
  The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads (each container or trailer is counted as one
carload), and ARC by commodity type:       
 
         26   

Table of Contents  

Agricultural Products    Higher volume, fuel surcharges, and price improvements increased agricultural freight revenue in 2010 versus 2009.
Increased shipments from the Midwest to export ports in the Pacific Northwest combined with heightened demand in Mexico drove higher corn and feed grain shipments in 2010. Increased corn and feed grain shipments into ethanol plants in California and
Idaho and continued growth in ethanol shipments also contributed to this increase. In 2009, some ethanol plants temporarily ceased operations due to lower ethanol margins, which contributed to the favorable year-over-year comparison. In addition,
strong export demand for U.S. wheat via the Gulf ports increased shipments of wheat and food grains compared to 2009. Declines in domestic wheat and food shipments partially offset the growth in export shipments. New business in feed and animal
protein shipments also increased agricultural shipments in 2010 compared to 2009.   
     
      2010 Agricultural Revenue   

Lower volume and fuel surcharges decreased agricultural freight revenue in 2009
versus 2008. Price improvements partially offset these declines. Lower demand in both export and domestic markets led to fewer shipments of corn and feed grains, down 11% in 2009 compared to 2008. Weaker worldwide demand also reduced export
shipments of wheat and food grains in 2009 versus 2008.       

Automotive    37% and 24% increases in shipments of finished vehicles and automotive parts in 2010, respectively,
combined with core pricing gains and fuel surcharges, improved automotive freight revenue from relatively weak 2009 levels. Economic conditions in 2009 led to poor auto sales and reduced vehicle production, which in turn reduced shipments of
finished vehicles and parts during the year.         Declines
in shipments of finished vehicles and auto parts and lower fuel surcharges reduced freight revenue in 2009 compared to 2008. Vehicle shipments were down 35% and parts were down 24%. Core pricing gains partially offset these declines. These volume
declines resulted from economic conditions that reduced sales and vehicle production. In addition, two major domestic automotive manufacturers declared bankruptcy in the second quarter of 2009, affecting production    levels.
   Although    the   federal   Car   Allowance   
        
     2010 Automotive Revenue       

Rebate System (the  cash for clunkers  program) helped stimulate vehicle sales and shipments in the third quarter of 2009, production cuts and soft
demand throughout the year more than offset the program s benefits.     
         27   

Table of Contents  

Chemicals    Higher volume, price improvements, and fuel surcharges increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2010 versus 2009. Reduced inventories and
purchases delayed from 2009 increased fertilizer shipments by 30% in 2010. A modest rebound in market conditions and more normalized inventory levels increased demand for industrial chemicals during the year, driving volume levels up 8% versus 2009.
In addition, shipments of soda ash increased 12% as continued strong export demand outpaced weak 2009 export demand.   
        
     2010 Chemicals Revenue   

Reduced volume and fuel surcharges decreased freight
revenue from chemical shipments in 2009 versus 2008. Pricing improvements partially offset these declines. Weak market conditions reduced shipments of industrial chemicals in 2009 compared to 2008, driving volume     levels
    down     16%.     High     inventories,   

production curtailments, and delayed purchases combined to reduce fertilizer shipments by 29% in 2009. Additionally, business interruptions resulting from
Hurricanes Gustav and Ike lowered volume levels in the third quarter of 2008, contributing to a more favorable year-over-year comparison.         

Energy    Core pricing gains, higher fuel surcharges and modest volume growth increased freight revenue from energy
shipments in 2010 compared to 2009. Shipments from the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) were up 4% driven by higher demand resulting from improvement in economic conditions, warmer summer weather, and more efficient deliveries (higher tons per car
and increased train size). Higher inventory levels carried over from 2009 partially offset this demand increase. Shipments from Colorado and Utah mines were down 8% in 2010 versus 2009 due to mine production interruptions and increased competition
from other low cost fuel options (natural gas and eastern coal), weaker demand from our industrial customers, and high inventories at some utility customer locations.  

2010 Energy Revenue       

Lower volume and fuel surcharges reduced freight revenue from energy shipments in 2009 versus 2008.
Price increases partially offset these declines. Shipments curtailments, and delayed purchases combined to reduce fertilizer shipments by 29% in 2009. Additionally, business interruptions resulting from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike lowered volume
levels in the third quarter of 2008, contributing to a more favorable year-over-year comparison. tility customers, resulting in lower volumes. Production problems at the Colorado and Utah mines and the loss of SPRB customer contracts also
contributed to the volume declines.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

Industrial Products    Volume gains, core pricing improvement, and higher fuel surcharges increased freight revenue
from industrial products in 2010 versus 2009. A federal government remediation program involving removal of uranium mill tailings from a Moab, Utah, site drove an increase in short-haul hazardous waste shipments versus 2009. Shipments under this
program began modestly during the second quarter of 2009. Steel shipments also increased due to improving economic conditions, while shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand) grew in response to more drilling for natural gas. Stone,
sand and gravel shipments grew in 2010 compared to 2009 as increased oil drilling more than offset the decline in commercial construction activity.      
  Reduced volume and fuel surcharges resulted in lower
freight  revenue  from  industrial  products  shipments  in    
     
     2010 Industrial Products Revenue   

2009 versus 2008. Price improvements partially offset these declines. Weak demand and inventory reductions resulting
from the economic downturn drove a 53% decline in steel shipments in 2009 compared to 2008. The continued weakness in the housing market reduced lumber shipments, while surplus production and overall market uncertainty resulted in lower paper and
newsprint shipments in 2009 versus 2008. In addition, cement and stone shipments declined during 2009 due to high inventories and weak commercial and residential construction activity.  

Intermodal    Increased volume, higher fuel surcharges (including new recovery provisions in contracts renegotiated in 2010), and pricing gains drove the
increase in freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2010 compared to 2009. Volume from domestic and international traffic increased from 2009 levels, reflecting improvements in economic conditions. International volumes grew in response to
continued inventory restocking and higher consumer demand. Domestic shipments increased as a result of conversions from truck to rail fueled by improved service operations. A new contract with Hub Group, Inc., which included additional shipments,
was executed in the second quarter of 2009 and contributed to the increase in domestic shipments.   
     
     2010 Intermodal Revenue   

Decreased volumes and fuel surcharges reduced freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2009
versus 2008. Volume from international traffic decreased 24% in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting economic conditions, continued weak imports from Asia, and diversions to non-UPRR served ports. Additionally, continued weakness in the domestic
housing and automotive sectors translated into weak demand in large sectors of the international intermodal market, which also contributed to the volume decline. Conversely, domestic traffic increased 8% in 2009 compared to 2008. A new contract with
Hub Group, Inc., which included additional shipments, was executed in the second quarter of 2009 and more than offset the impact of weak market conditions in the second half of 2009.   
   Mexico Business    Each of our commodity groups include revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business
increased 30% in 2010 versus 2009 to $1.6 billion. Volume levels for all six commodity groups increased, up 25% in aggregate versus 2009, with particularly strong growth in automotive, industrial products, and intermodal shipments.   
  Revenue from Mexico business decreased 26% in 2009 versus 2008 to $1.2 billion. Volume declined in five of our six commodity groups, down 19% in
2009, driven by 32% and 24% reductions in industrial products and automotive shipments, respectively. Conversely, energy shipments increased 9% in 2009 versus 2008, partially offsetting these declines.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

    Operating Expenses        

Operating expenses increased $1.2 billion in 2010 versus 2009. Our fuel price per gallon increased 31% during the year, accounting for $566 million of the increase. Wage
and benefit inflation, depreciation, volume-related costs, and property taxes also contributed to higher expenses during 2010 compared to 2009. Cost savings from productivity improvements and better resource utilization partially offset these
increases.   
        
     2010 Operating Expenses   

Operating expenses decreased $3.1 billion in 2009 versus
2008. Our fuel price per gallon declined 44% during 2009, decreasing operating expenses by $1.3 billion compared to 2008. Cost savings from lower volume, productivity improvements, and better resource      utilization
also decreased operating expenses    in    2009.    In    addition,    lower    casualty    

expense resulting primarily from improving trends in safety performance decreased operating expenses in 2009. Conversely, wage and benefit inflation partially
offset these reductions.         Compensation and Benefits    Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll
taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. General wage and benefit inflation increased costs by approximately $190 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Volume-related expenses and higher equity
and incentive compensation also drove costs up during the year. Workforce levels declined 1% in 2010 compared to 2009 as network efficiencies and ongoing productivity initiatives enabled us to effectively handle the 13% increase in volume levels
with fewer employees.      Lower volume and productivity initiatives led to a 10% decline in our workforce in 2009 compared to 2008, saving
$516 million during the year. Conversely, general wage and benefit inflation increased expenses, partially offsetting these savings.   
   Fuel    Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Higher diesel fuel prices,
which averaged $2.29 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2010 compared to $1.75 per gallon in 2009, increased expenses by $566 million. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, increased 10% in 2010 versus 2009, driving fuel
expense up by $166 million. Conversely, the use of newer, more fuel efficient locomotives, our fuel conservation programs and efficient network operations drove a 3% improvement in our fuel consumption rate in 2010, resulting in $40 million of cost
savings versus 2009 at the 2009 average fuel price.      Lower diesel fuel prices, which averaged $1.75 per gallon (including taxes and
transportation costs) in 2009 compared to $3.15 per gallon in 2008, reduced expenses by $1.3 billion in 2009. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 17% in 2009, lowering expenses by $664 million compared to 2008. Our fuel consumption
rate improved 4% in 2009, resulting in $147 million of cost savings versus 2008 at the 2008 average fuel price. The consumption rate savings versus 2008 using the lower 2009 fuel price was $68 million. Newer, more fuel efficient locomotives,
reflecting locomotive acquisitions in recent years and the impact of a smaller fleet due to storage of some of our older locomotives; increased use of   
         30   

Table of Contents  

distributed locomotive power; our fuel conservation programs; and improved network operations all drove this improvement.       Purchased Services and Materials    Purchased services and materials expense includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors (including equipment maintenance and contract expenses
incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging
for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. A $148 million increase in expenses for contract services drove the higher expenses in 2010 versus
2009. Volume-related trucking and lift costs for intermodal containers and crew transportation and lodging costs also increased costs from 2009. In addition, an increase in locomotive maintenance materials used to prepare a portion of our locomotive
fleet for return to active service increased expenses during the year compared to 2009. Conversely, a decrease in freight car maintenance activity during 2010 drove lower freight car material costs, partially offsetting the cost increases versus
2009.      Contract services expense (including equipment maintenance) decreased $134 million in 2009 versus 2008 due to lower volume levels
and a favorable year-over-year comparison due to expenses incurred in 2008 resulting from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In addition, lower volume levels drove cost reductions of $55 million in transportation and lodging costs and $27 million in
expenses associated with operating jointly owned facilities in 2009 versus 2008. We also performed fewer locomotive and freight car repairs as a result of lower volumes and having portions of these fleets stored, which reduced related materials
expenses by $87 million in 2009 versus 2008. Clean-up and restoration expenses related to the Cascade mudslide in January, flooding in the Midwest in June, and the two September hurricanes also increased expenses in 2008, creating a favorable
year-over-year comparison.       Depreciation    The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties,
ballast, and other track material. A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher capital spending in recent years, increased depreciation expense in 2010 compared to 2009. Costs also increased $25 million in 2010 due to the restructuring of
certain locomotive leases in the second quarter of 2009. Lower depreciation rates for rail and other track material partially offset the increases. The lower rates, which became effective January 1, 2010, resulted from reduced track usage
(based on lower gross ton-miles in 2009).      A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher capital spending in recent years,
increased depreciation expense in 2009 versus 2008. Costs also increased $34 million in 2009 due to the restructuring of certain locomotive leases. Lower depreciation rates for rail and other track material partially offset the increases. The lower
rates, which became effective January 1, 2009, resulted from longer asset lives as determined by service life studies and reduced track usage (based on lower gross ton-miles in 2008).   
   Equipment and Other Rents    Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars
owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; other specialty equipment leases; and office and other rentals. Short-term freight car rental expense increased in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting
increased shipments of finished vehicles and intermodal containers. Increased lease expenses for containers also drove the increase. Conversely, lower lease expense for freight cars and locomotives decreased costs compared to 2009. The restructuring
of locomotive leases (completed in May 2009) also reduced lease expense by $36 million in 2010 compared to 2009. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financing Activities.)   
  Fewer shipments of industrial products and intermodal containers primarily contributed to the $85 million reduction in our short-term freight car
rental expense in 2009 versus 2008. In addition, the restructuring of locomotive leases reduced lease expense by $52 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Lower lease expense for freight cars, intermodal containers, and fleet vehicles also decreased
costs in 2009 versus 2008.       Other    Other expenses include personal injury, freight and property damage, destruction of
foreign equipment, insurance, environmental, bad debt, state and local taxes, utilities, telephone and cellular, employee travel, computer software, and other general expenses. Other costs were higher in 2010 compared to 2009, driven by higher
property taxes and the $45 million one-time payment in the first quarter of 2010 related to a transaction with CSXI. A $30 million payment in 2009 to Pacer International,   
         31   

Table of Contents  

Inc. and lower expenses for freight and property damages partially offset these increases in comparing 2009 with 2010. In addition, personal injury expense was lower in 2010 compared to 2009,
reflecting continued improvement in our personal injury incident rate and lower settlement costs per claim. The change in asbestos-related claim expenses in 2010 versus 2009 offset the lower personal injury costs. As a result of our 2009 annual
review of asbestos-related costs, we reduced expenses by $25 million, thus driving the unfavorable variance in 2010.      Other costs were
lower in 2009 compared to 2008, driven by a reduction in personal injury expense and asbestos-related claims expense. We completed actuarial studies of personal injury expenses in both the second and fourth quarters of 2009 and 2008 and annual
reviews of asbestos-related claims in both years, which resulted in a net reduction of $55 million in casualty expense in 2009 versus 2008. The reduction reflects improvements in our safety experience and lower estimated costs to resolve claims. In
addition, the year-over-year comparison was favorably impacted by $28 million due to an adverse development with respect to one personal injury claim in 2008 and favorable developments in three cases in 2009. Other costs were also lower in 2009
compared to 2008, driven by a decrease in expenses for freight and property damages, employee travel, and utilities. In addition, higher bad debt expense in 2008 due to the uncertain impact of the recessionary economy drove a favorable
year-over-year comparison. Conversely, an additional expense of $30 million related to a transaction with Pacer International, Inc. and higher property taxes partially offset lower costs in 2009.   
   Non-Operating Items        

Other Income    Other income decreased in 2010 versus 2009 due to lower gains from real estate sales (the second quarter of 2009
included a $116 million pre-tax gain from a land sale to the Regional Transportation District in Colorado) and premiums paid for early debt redemption.      Other income increased $103 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to higher gains from real estate sales, which included the $116 million pre-tax gain from a land sale in Colorado, and lower interest
expense on our receivables securitization facility, resulting from lower interest rates and a lower outstanding balance. Reduced rental and licensing income and lower returns on cash investments, reflecting lower interest rates, partially offset
these increases.       Interest Expense    Interest expense was flat in 2010 compared to 2009 due to a modestly higher
weighted-average debt level of $9.7 billion, compared to $9.6 billion in 2009, offset by a lower effective interest rate of 6.2% in 2010, compared to 6.3% in 2009.      Interest expense increased in 2009 versus 2008 due primarily to higher weighted-average debt levels. In 2009, the weighted-average debt level was $9.6 billion (including the restructuring of locomotive leases in
May of 2009), compared to $8.3 billion in 2008. Our effective interest rate was 6.3% in 2009, compared to 6.1% in 2008.       Income
Taxes    Income taxes were higher in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily driven by higher pre-tax income. Our effective tax rate for the year was 37.3% compared to 36.4% in 2009. Income taxes were lower in 2009 compared to 2008, driven by lower
pre-tax income. Our effective tax rate for 2009 was 36.4% compared to 36.0% in 2008.       OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS
      We report key Railroad performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), including carloads, average daily
inventory of rail cars on our system, average train speed, and average terminal dwell time. We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investors/reports/index.shtml.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

    Operating/Performance Statistics       Railroad performance measures reported to the AAR, as well as other performance measures, are included in the table below:       

Average Train Speed    Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals.
Maintenance activities and weather disruptions, combined with higher volume levels, led to a 4% decrease in average train speed in 2010 compared to a record set in 2009. Overall, we continued operating a fluid and efficient network during the year.
Lower volume levels, ongoing network management initiatives, and productivity improvements contributed to a 16% improvement in average train speed in 2009 compared to 2008.       Average Terminal Dwell Time    Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average
terminal dwell time increased 2% in 2010 compared to 2009, driven in part by our network plan to increase the length of numerous trains to improve overall efficiency, which resulted in higher terminal dwell time for some cars. Average terminal dwell
time improved slightly in 2009 compared to 2008 due to lower volume levels combined with initiatives to expedite delivering rail cars to our interchange partners and customers.   
   Average Rail Car Inventory    Average rail car inventory is the daily average number of rail cars on our lines, including rail cars in
storage. Lower average rail car inventory reduces congestion in our yards and sidings, which increases train speed, reduces average terminal dwell time, and improves rail car utilization. Average rail car inventory decreased 3% in 2010 compared to
2009, while we handled 13% increases in carloads during the period compared to 2009. We maintained more freight cars off-line and retired a number of old freight cars, which drove the decreases. Average rail car inventory decreased 6% in 2009
compared to 2008 driven by a 16% decrease in volume. In addition, as carloads decreased, we stored more freight cars off-line.       Gross
and Revenue Ton-Miles    Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff
miles. Gross and revenue-ton-miles increased 10% and 9% in 2010 compared to 2009 due to a 13% increase in carloads. Commodity mix changes (notably automotive shipments) drove the variance in year-over-year growth between gross ton-miles, revenue
ton-miles and carloads. Gross and revenue ton-miles decreased 17% and 15% in 2009 compared to 2008 due to a 16% decrease in carloads. Commodity mix changes (notably automotive shipments, which were 30% lower in 2009 versus 2008) drove the difference
in declines between gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles.       Operating Ratio    Operating ratio is defined as our operating
expenses as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratio improved 5.5 points to 70.6% in 2010 and 1.3 points to 76.1% in 2009. Efficiently leveraging volume increases, core pricing gains, and productivity initiatives drove the improvement
in 2010 and more than offset the impact of higher fuel prices during the year. Core pricing gains, lower fuel prices, network management initiatives, and improved productivity drove the improvement in 2009 and more than offset the 16% volume
decline.       Employees    Employee levels were down 1% in 2010 compared to 2009 despite a 13% increase in volume levels. We
leveraged the additional volumes through network efficiencies and other productivity initiatives. In addition, we successfully managed the growth of our full-time-equivalent train and engine force levels at a rate less than half of our carload
growth in 2010. All other operating functions and   
         33   

Table of Contents  

support organizations reduced their full-time-equivalent force levels, benefiting from continued productivity initiatives. Productivity initiatives and lower volumes reduced employee levels 10%
throughout the Company in 2009 versus 2008.       Customer Satisfaction Index    Our customer satisfaction survey asks customers
to rate how satisfied they are with our performance over the last 12 months on a variety of attributes. A higher score indicates higher customer satisfaction. The improvement in survey results in 2010 and 2009 generally reflects customer recognition
of our service quality.       Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity    
           
     Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP
financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the
Corporation s long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a
substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity. The tables above provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders 
equity to ROIC. Our 2010 ROIC improved 2.6 points compared to 2009, primarily as a result of higher earnings.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

    Debt to Capital / Adjusted Debt to Capital    
       
    Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP
financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease
obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. Effective January 1, 2010, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under our
receivables securitization facility is included in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as debt due after one year. At December 31, 2010, that amount was $100 million. Operating leases were discounted using 6.2% at December 31,
2010 and 6.3% at December 31, 2009. The lower discount rate reflects changes to interest rates and our current financing costs. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and
efficient access to the capital markets with the Corporation s overall cost of capital. Adjusted debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide reconciliations
from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2010 debt to capital ratios decreased as a result of a $606 million net decrease in debt from December 31, 2009. Debt, including the value of our receivables securitization
facility, decreased $1.0 billion from December 31, 2009.       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    
  As of December 31, 2010, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization facility, and our
revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets (such as the remaining authority under our shelf registration). We had $1.9 billion of committed credit available
under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2010. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the receivables
securitization facility was $100 million as of December 31, 2010, and is included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year. The receivables securitization facility is subject to certain requirements,
including maintenance of an investment grade bond rating. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market
conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is
also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity by issuing bonds to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets.   
  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had a working capital surplus, which in 2010 continues to be the result of our decision in 2009 to maintain
additional cash reserves to enhance liquidity in response to   
         35   

Table of Contents  

uncertain economic conditions. Historically, we have had a working capital deficit, which is common in our industry and does not indicate a lack of liquidity. We maintain adequate resources and,
when necessary, have access to capital to meet any daily and short-term cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.   
   
     Operating Activities    
  Higher net income in 2010 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2009. Conversely, the adoption of a new accounting standard
for our receivables securitization facility from a sale of undivided interests (recorded as an operating activity) to a secured borrowing (recorded as a financing activity) decreased cash provided by operating activities by $400 million in 2010
versus $184 million in 2009. Lower net income in 2009, a reduction of $184 million in the outstanding balance of our receivables securitization facility, higher pension contributions of $72 million, and changes to working capital combined to
decrease cash provided by operating activities compared to 2008.       Investing Activities    
  Higher capital investments and lower proceeds from asset sales in 2010 drove the increase in cash used in investing activities compared to 2009.
Lower capital investments and higher proceeds from asset sales drove the decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2009 versus 2008.      The tables below detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008:       

[a]   
     Other includes bridges and tunnels, signals, other road assets, and road work equipment.       

Capital Plan    In 2011, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $3.2 billion, which may be revised if business
conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. We expect that approximately 65% of our 2011 capital   
         36   

Table of Contents  

investments will replace and improve existing capital assets. Major investment categories include replacing and improving track infrastructure; increasing network and terminal capacity; upgrading
our locomotive, freight car and container fleet, including acquiring 100 locomotives, 600 covered hoppers, 4,800 containers and 4,800 chassis; improving technology, including investing in PTC; and other capital projects. We expect to fund our 2011
cash capital investments through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand at December 31, 2010. Our annual capital plan is a critical
component of our long-term strategic plan, which we expect will enhance the long-term value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe
and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.   
   Financing Activities       Cash used in financing
activities increased in 2010 versus 2009. During 2010, we repurchased $1.2 billion of shares under our common stock repurchase program, compared to no repurchases in 2009. Additionally, our net debt reduction in 2010 was $518 million compared to $28
million in 2009, which also contributed to the increase in cash used in financing activities in 2010. Cash used in financing activities decreased in 2009 versus 2008 driven by share repurchases totaling $1.6 billion in 2008. Additionally, debt
repayments were $337 million lower in 2009, partially offset by lower new debt issuances of $1.4 billion and higher dividend payments (we increased our dividend from $0.22 per share to $0.27 per share, effective in the third quarter of 2008). The
restructuring of equipment leases in 2009 also generated $87 million in cash consideration, further contributing to the decrease.   
   Credit Facilities    On December 31, 2010, we had $1.9 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the
facility). The facility is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2010. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and
rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt ratings. The facility requires Union
Pacific Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009 (and at all times during these periods), we were in compliance with this covenant.
     The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain
credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2010, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $35.5 billion of debt (as defined in the
facility), and we had $9.7 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable
control (including the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report) could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than
rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision. The facility will expire in April 2012 in accordance with
its terms, and we currently intend to replace the facility with a substantially similar credit agreement on or before the expiration date, which is consistent with our past practices with respect to our credit facilities.   
  During 2010, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper and, at December 31, 2010, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our commercial
paper balance is supported by our revolving credit facility but does not reduce the amount of borrowings available under the facility.   
  At December 31, 2010, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $100 million of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance.
This reclassification reflected our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis. At December 31, 2009, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $320
million of debt due within one year that we intended to refinance at that time.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges       For each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 6.9, 4.9, and 5.9, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated
basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount
representing the interest portion of rental charges. (See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.)   
   Common Shareholders  Equity    
   Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section
above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $12.9 billion and $11.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
      Share Repurchase Program    On May 1, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 40 million common
shares by March 31, 2011. Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. Any share repurchases under this program are expected to be funded through cash generated
from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.   
       
    On February 3, 2011, our Board of
Directors authorized us to repurchase up to 40 million additional shares of our common stock under a new program effective from April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2014.       Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings    We filed a shelf registration statement, which became effective upon filing on February 10, 2010. Our Board of Directors authorized the
issuance of up to $3 billion of debt securities, replacing the $2.25 billion of authority remaining under our shelf registration filed in March 2007. Under the shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities,
preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings.      During 2010, we issued the following
unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:       
 
  The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share
repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions.      We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities;
however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time. At
December 31, 2010, we had remaining authority to issue up to $2.5 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

    Debt Exchange    On July 14, 2010, we exchanged $376 million of 7.875% notes due in
2019 (Existing Notes) for 5.78% notes (New Notes) due July 15, 2040, plus cash consideration of approximately $96 million and $15 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. The cash consideration, recorded as an adjustment
to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes are being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the term of the New Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of
the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $2 million and were included in interest expense during the third quarter.   
   Debt Redemptions    On March 22, 2010, we redeemed $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012. The redemption resulted
in an early extinguishment charge of $16 million in the first quarter of 2010. On November 1, 2010, we redeemed all $400 million of our outstanding 6.65% notes due January 15, 2011. The redemption resulted in a $5 million early
extinguishment charge.       Receivables Securitization Facility    In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-16,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  (ASU 2009-16). ASU 2009-16 limits the circumstances in which transferred financial assets can be derecognized and requires enhanced disclosures
regarding transfers of financial assets and a transferor s continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. We adopted the authoritative accounting standard on January 1, 2010. As a result, we no longer account for the value of
the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under our receivables securitization facility as a sale. In addition, transfers of receivables occurring on or after January 1, 2010, are reflected as debt issued in our Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows, and the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors at December 31, 2010, is accounted for as a secured borrowing and is included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after
one year.      Under the receivables securitization facility, the Railroad sells most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific
Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a bankruptcy-remote subsidiary. UPRI may subsequently transfer, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in eligible accounts receivable to investors. The total capacity to transfer undivided
interests to investors under the facility was $600 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the facility was $100 million and $400 million at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $960 million and $817 million of accounts receivable at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the value
of the interest retained by UPRI was $960 million and $417 million, respectively. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   
  The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the availability of eligible receivables and is
directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would not change as of
December 31, 2010. Should our credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the right to discontinue the facility.
     The Railroad collected approximately $16.3 billion and $13.8 billion of receivables during the years ended December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.      The costs of the receivables
securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The costs of the receivables
securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $6 million during 2010. Prior to adoption of the new accounting standard, the costs of the receivables securitization facility were included in other income and were $9 million and
$23 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively.      The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets, except for customary
warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.      In August 2010, the receivables
securitization facility was renewed for an additional 364-day period at comparable terms and conditions.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

    Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments    
  As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and
commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and
structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand,
commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and
commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.      The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2010:       

[a]   
     Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,909 million and unamortized discount of $198 million. Includes an interest component of $4,861 million.

[b]   
     Represents total obligations, including interest component of $784 million.       

[c]   
     Includes locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for locomotives, freight cars, containers, fuel, ties, ballast, and rail; and agreements to
purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we can not reasonably estimate the year of settlement, the commitments are reflected in the Other column.       

[d]   
     Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments and payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years. No
amounts are included for funded pension as no contributions are currently required.           

[e]   
     Income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, as of December 31, 2010.
Where we can reasonably estimate the years in which these liabilities may be settled, this is shown in the table. For amounts where we can not reasonably estimate the year of settlement, the obligations are reflected in the Other column.

[b]   
     $100 million of the receivables securitization facility was utilized at December 31, 2010, which is accounted for as debt. The full program matures in
August 2011.           

[c]   
     Includes guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations.       
   
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        Guarantees    At December 31, 2010, we were
contingently liable for $382 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $3 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of
business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated   
         40   

Table of Contents  

operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.       OTHER MATTERS    
   Inflation    Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result,
assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.   
   Derivative Financial Instruments    We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall
exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge
accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging
instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these
derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.       Market and Credit Risk    We
address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is
minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.   
   Determination of Fair Value    We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair
values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.       Sensitivity Analyses    The
sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact
actual results.      At December 31, 2010, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 2.2% of our total debt. If variable
interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2011 than our December 31, 2010 variable rate, which was approximately 0.9%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $2 million. This amount was determined by considering the
impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2010.      Market risk for
fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2010, and amounts to an increase of approximately $824 million to the fair
value of our debt at December 31, 2010. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.   
   Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges    We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed
and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings.
We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing
outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.      Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge
the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the FASB
  
         41   

Table of Contents  

Accounting Standards Codification (ASC); therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until
the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had reductions of $3 million recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.       Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
  In June 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-16,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  (ASU 2009-16). ASU 2009-16 limits the circumstances in which transferred financial assets can be derecognized and
requires enhanced disclosures regarding transfers of financial assets and a transferor s continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. We adopted the authoritative accounting standard on January 1, 2010. As a result, we no
longer account for the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under our receivables securitization facility as a sale. In addition, transfers of receivables occurring on or after January 1, 2010, are reflected as debt
issued in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and recognized as debt due after one year in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.       Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our
consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We
do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into
account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.       Indemnities    Our maximum
potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to
whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do
not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.       Climate
Change    Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such
impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our
operations to increase fuel efficiency.         CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES    
  Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation
and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described
in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from
actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.       Personal Injury    The cost of personal
injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted
claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages   
         42   

Table of Contents  

are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at
work.      Our personal injury liability is discounted to present value using applicable U.S. Treasury rates. Approximately 88% of the
recorded liability related to asserted claims, and approximately 12% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2010. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future
costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $426 million to $464 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss is more probable than any other. Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:
      
    Our personal injury claims activity
was as follows:       
     Asbestos    We are a
defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is
updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:   

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
  Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.
Approximately 22% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 78% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2010. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is
reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $162 million to $178 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss is more probable than any other. In conjunction with the
liability update performed in 2010, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:

43   

Table of Contents  

   Our asbestos-related claims activity was as follows:   
   
    We believe that our estimates of
liability for asbestos-related claims and insurance recoveries are reasonable and probable. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as
the number of new claims to be filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if
strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with
respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.       Environmental    We are subject to federal, state, and local
environmental laws and regulations. We identified 294 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 31 sites that are the subject of
actions taken by the U.S. government, 17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate
environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.      When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we and our consultants perform environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of
the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and we can reasonably estimate such costs. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed
or readily determinable. At December 31, 2010, approximately 5% of our environmental liability was discounted at 2.8%, while approximately 12% of our environmental liability was discounted at 3.4% at December 31, 2009. Our environmental
liability activity was as follows:       
    Our environmental site activity was as
follows:       
    The liability includes future costs
for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially
responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other
potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability
  
         44   

Table of Contents  

may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.       Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly
capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to
enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and
electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and
are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the
number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.      We determine the estimated service lives of
depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road
property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:       

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic
corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2010, the estimated service lives of the
majority of this rail ranged from approximately 15 years to approximately 30 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation
studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.   
  Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other
factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets
may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.      Changes in
estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods  depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful
lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $42 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense
would increase by approximately $45 million. Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in changes in depreciation rates for some asset classes, but did not significantly affect our annual depreciation expense.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

   Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired
or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset
classes. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the
estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or
in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.   
  For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the
retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal
years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.   
   Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future changes in tax
laws are not anticipated. Future tax law changes, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a 1% increase in future income tax rates would
increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $300 million.      When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred
tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized,
based on management s judgments using available evidence about future events. In 2010, there is no valuation allowance because the deferred tax assets associated with the 2009 valuation allowance expired unrealized. Our total valuation
allowance at December 31, 2009 was $8 million.      At times, we may claim tax benefits that may be challenged by a tax authority. We
recognize tax benefits only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized
upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.   
   Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    We use an actuarial analysis to measure the liabilities and expenses associated with
providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension
obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and health care cost trend rate.   
  We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:   

Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of
cash flows matches our plans  expected benefit payments.          

Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market
conditions.          

Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.      
         46   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB
cost/(benefit) for 2010 and the estimated impact on 2010 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions:       

Sensitivities    
      
   Increase in Expense   

Millions   
      
   Pension   

OPEB   

0.25% decrease in discount rate   
      
  $  
  7  

$  
  -    

0.25% increase in salary scale   
      
  $  
  3  

N/A  

0.25% decrease in expected return on plan assets   
      
  $  
  6  

N/A  

1% increase in health care cost trend rate   

N/A  

$  
  2  
          The
following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for the years ended December 31:       
    Our net
periodic pension cost is expected to increase to approximately $79 million in 2011 from $51 million in 2010. The increase is driven by a decrease in the discount rate to 5.35%, a decrease in our expected rate of return on plan assets to 7.5%, and an
increase in the amortization of actuarial losses from accumulated other comprehensive income. We reduced our expected rate of return on plan assets to 7.5% in 2011 from 8% in 2010 to reflect our expected future returns on plan assets based on our
current asset allocation strategy. Our net periodic OPEB benefit is expected to decrease to approximately $(4) million in 2011 from $(14) million in 2010. The decrease in our net periodic OPEB benefit is primarily driven by a decrease in the
amortization of prior service credits from accumulated other comprehensive income.         CAUTIONARY INFORMATION    
  Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included
in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information
include, without limitation, (A) statements in the Chairman s letter preceding Part I regarding increasing profitability and financial returns, expanding international and domestic market share, and future capital investments; statements
regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption  2011 Capital Expenditures  in Item 2 of Part I; statements regarding dividends in Item 5 and statements; and information set forth under the captions  2011
Outlook  and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  in this Item 7, and (B) any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial
performance, revenue growth and cost savings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic
performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital
expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans (including statements set forth in Item 2 as to expectations related to our planned
capital expenditures); expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of costs relating to
environmental remediation and restoration;   
         47   

Table of Contents  

expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such
as  believes,   expects,   may,   should,   would,   will,   intends,   plans,   estimates,   anticipates,   projects  and similar words,
phrases or expressions.      Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not
necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to
differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances
over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any
forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are
qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.      Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the
statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking
statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.   
     Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk     
  Information concerning market risk sensitive instruments is set forth under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations   Other Matters, Item 7.      ****************************************   
         48   

Table of Contents  

      Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

49   

Table of Contents  

        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      Union Pacific Corporation, its Directors, and Shareholders:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related
consolidated statements of income, changes in common shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Table of
Contents at Part IV, Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Corporation s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in
 Internal Control     Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 4, 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting.   

Omaha, Nebraska      February 4, 2011   
         50   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         51   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         52   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

[a]   
     AOCI = Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (Note 9)           The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         54   

Table of Contents  

      NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies       For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the  Corporation ,  UPC ,  we ,  us , and  our  mean Union Pacific
Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which will be separately referred to herein as  UPRR  or the  Railroad .   
     1. Nature of Operations        Operations and Segmentation    We are a Class I railroad that operates in the U.S. We have 31,953 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and eastern U.S. gateways and
providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers for the handling of freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the
Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic is moved through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders.      The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although revenues are analyzed by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one
segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. The following table provides revenue by commodity group:       
    Although our revenues are principally
derived from customers domiciled in the U.S., the ultimate points of origination or destination for some products transported are outside the U.S.       Basis of Presentation    The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) as codified in the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).     
 
     2. Significant Accounting Policies        Principles of Consolidation    The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Union Pacific Corporation and all of its subsidiaries. Investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50% owned)
are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. We currently have no less than majority-owned investments that require consolidation under variable interest entity requirements.   
   Cash and Cash Equivalents    Cash equivalents consist of investments with original maturities of three months or less.   
   Accounts Receivable    Accounts receivable includes receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based
upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. Receivables not expected to be collected in one year and the associated allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position.       Investments    Investments represent our investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50% owned) that are accounted
for under the equity method of accounting and investments in companies (less than 20% owned) accounted for under the cost method of accounting.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

    Materials and Supplies    Materials and supplies are carried at the lower of average cost
or market.       Property and Depreciation    Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line
basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards), for which lives
are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected life are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite
depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies. Under the group
method of depreciation, no gain or loss is recognized when depreciable property is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business.       Impairment of Long-lived Assets    We review long-lived assets, including identifiable intangibles, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value as measured by the
discounted cash flows.       Revenue Recognition    We recognize freight revenues as freight moves from origin to destination. The
allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Other revenues, which include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail
operations, and accessorial revenue, are recognized as service is performed or contractual obligations are met. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are
recorded as a reduction to operating revenues based on actual or projected future customer shipments.       Translation of Foreign
Currency    Our portion of the assets and liabilities related to foreign investments are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the average rates of
exchange prevailing during the year. Unrealized gains or losses are reflected within common shareholders  equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.       Fair Value Measurements    We use a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy
within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels include:   
  Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.      Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.      Level 3:
Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.      We have applied fair value measurements to our pension plan assets and to our interest
rate fair value hedges.       Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and
non-employee directors receive stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover
option exercises and stock unit vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted.      We measure and recognize
compensation expense for all stock-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options. Compensation expense is based on the calculated fair value of the awards as measured at the grant date and is expensed ratably over the service
period of the awards (generally the vesting period). The fair value of retention awards is the closing stock price on the date of grant, while the fair value of stock options is determined by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.   
   Earnings Per Share    Basic earnings per share are calculated on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each
period. Diluted earnings per share include shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and stock-based awards where the conversion of such instruments would be dilutive.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

    Use of Estimates    Our Consolidated Financial Statements include estimates and assumptions
regarding certain assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and the disclosure of certain contingent assets and liabilities. Actual future results may differ from such estimates.   
   Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future changes in tax
laws are not anticipated. Future tax law changes, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.   
  When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining
whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence about future events.
     At times, we may claim tax benefits that may be challenged by a tax authority. We recognize tax benefits only for tax positions that
are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for
 unrecognized tax benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.       Pension and Postretirement Benefits    We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pensions and postretirement health benefits. In order to measure the expense associated with these
benefits, we must make various assumptions including discount rates used to value certain liabilities, expected return on plan assets used to fund these expenses, salary increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and expected
future health care costs. The assumptions used by us are based on our historical experience as well as current facts and circumstances. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability associated with these benefits.   
   Personal Injury    The cost of injuries to employees and others on our property is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate
cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability. Our personal injury liability is discounted to present value using applicable U.S. Treasury rates. Legal fees and incidental costs are
expensed as incurred.       Asbestos    We estimate a liability for asserted and unasserted asbestos-related claims based on an
assessment of the number and value of those claims. We use a statistical analysis to assist us in properly measuring our potential liability. Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty
surrounding the timing of future payments. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.       Environmental    When
environmental issues have been identified with respect to property currently or formerly owned, leased, or otherwise used in the conduct of our business, we and our consultants perform environmental assessments on such property. We expense the cost
of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not
fixed or readily determinable. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.   
 
     3. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements       In June 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-16,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  (ASU 2009-16). ASU 2009-16 limits the circumstances in which transferred financial
assets can be derecognized and requires enhanced disclosures regarding transfers of financial assets and a transferor s continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. We adopted the authoritative accounting standard on
January 1, 2010. As a result, we no longer account for the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under our receivables securitization facility as a sale. In addition, transfers of receivables occurring on or after
January 1, 2010, are reflected as debt issued in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and recognized as debt due after one year in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. (See the discussion of our receivables securitization
facility in Note 10.)   
         57   

Table of Contents  

4. Stock Options and Other Stock Plans       We have 12,542 options outstanding under the 1993 Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (1993 Plan). There are 7,140 restricted shares outstanding under the 1992 Restricted Stock Plan
for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation. We no longer grant options or awards of retention shares and units under these plans.      In April 2000, the shareholders approved the Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors Plan (Directors Plan) whereby 1,100,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance to our non-employee directors.
Under the Directors Plan, each non-employee director, upon his or her initial election to the Board of Directors, receives a grant of 2,000 retention shares or retention stock units. Prior to December 31, 2007, each non-employee director
received annually an option to purchase at fair value a number of shares of our common stock, not to exceed 10,000 shares during any calendar year, determined by dividing 60,000 by 1/3 of the fair market value of one share of our common stock on the
date of such Board of Directors meeting, with the resulting quotient rounded up or down to the nearest 50 shares. In September 2007, the Board of Directors eliminated the annual payment of options for 2008 and future years. As of December 31,
2010, 18,000 restricted shares and 264,000 options were outstanding under the Directors Plan.      The Union Pacific Corporation 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan (2001 Plan) was approved by the shareholders in April 2001. The 2001 Plan reserved 24,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in the form of non-qualified options,
incentive stock options, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards. Non-employee directors were not eligible for awards under the 2001 Plan. As of December 31, 2010, 1,861,066 options were outstanding under the 2001 Plan. We no
longer grant any stock options or other stock or unit awards under this plan.      The Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
(2004 Plan) was approved by shareholders in April 2004. The 2004 Plan reserved 42,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any shares subject to awards made under the 2001 Plan and the 1993 Plan that were outstanding on April 16,
2004, and became available for regrant pursuant to the terms of the 2004 Plan. Under the 2004 Plan, non-qualified options, stock appreciation rights, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of
the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under the 2004 Plan. As of December 31, 2010, 7,677,841 options and 3,788,877 retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2004 Plan.
     Pursuant to the above plans 32,904,291; 33,559,150; and 36,961,123 shares of our common stock were authorized and available for grant
at December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.       Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based
compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have
elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted. Information regarding stock-based compensation appears in the table below:   

58   

Table of Contents  

    Stock Options    We estimate the fair value of our stock option awards using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. Groups of employees and non-employee directors that have similar historical and expected exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. The table below shows the annual weighted-average
assumptions used for valuation purposes:       
    The risk-free rate is based on the
U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant; the dividend yield is calculated as the ratio of dividends paid per share of common stock to the stock price on the date of grant; the expected life is based on historical and expected
exercise behavior; and volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock price over the expected life of the option.      A
summary of stock option activity during 2010 is presented below:       
    Stock
options are granted at the closing price on the date of grant, have ten-year contractual terms, and vest no later than three years from the date of grant. None of the stock options outstanding at December 31, 2010 are subject to performance or
market-based vesting conditions.      At December 31, 2010, there was $17 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to
nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.9 years. Additional information regarding stock option exercises appears in the table below:   

59   

Table of Contents  

    Retention Awards    The fair value of retention awards is based on the closing price of the
stock on the grant date. Dividends and dividend equivalents are paid to participants during the vesting periods.      Changes in our
retention awards during 2010 were as follows:       
    Retention awards are granted at no
cost to the employee or non-employee director and vest over periods lasting up to four years. At December 31, 2010, there was $62 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested retention awards, which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.       Performance Retention Awards    In February 2010, our Board of
Directors approved performance stock unit grants. Other than different performance targets, the basic terms of these performance stock units are identical to those granted in January 2008 and February 2009, including using annual return on invested
capital (ROIC) as the performance measure. We define ROIC as net operating profit adjusted for interest expense (including interest on the present value of operating leases) and taxes on interest divided by average invested capital adjusted for the
present value of operating leases. In February 2009, we changed an underlying assumption used in connection with calculating a component of ROIC. As a result, for awards of performance stock units granted in 2009 and 2010, an assumed interest rate
was used in both the numerator and denominator when calculating the present value of our future operating lease payments to reflect changes to interest rates and our financing costs. This rate is consistent with the methodology used to calculate our
adjusted debt-to-capital ratio. For performance stock units granted in 2008, we calculated ROIC using the methodology and assumptions in effect when the performance stock units were granted.   
  Stock units awarded to selected employees under these grants are subject to continued employment for 37 months and the attainment of certain levels
of ROIC. We expense the fair value of the units that are probable of being earned based on our forecasted ROIC over the 3-year performance period. We measure the fair value of these performance stock units based upon the closing price of the
underlying common stock as of the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated future dividends. Dividend equivalents are paid to participants only after the units are earned.   
  The assumptions used to calculate the present value of estimated future dividends related to the February 2010 grant were as follows:   

Changes in our performance retention awards during 2010 were as follows:   

60   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2010, there was $25 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to
nonvested performance retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years. A portion of this expense is subject to achievement of the ROIC levels established for the performance stock unit grants.

5. Retirement Plans        Pension and
Other Postretirement Benefits        Pension Plans    We provide defined benefit retirement income to eligible non-union
employees through qualified and non-qualified (supplemental) pension plans. Qualified and non-qualified pension benefits are based on years of service and the highest compensation during the latest years of employment, with specific reductions made
for early retirements.       Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB)    We provide medical and life insurance benefits for eligible
retirees. These benefits are funded as medical claims and life insurance premiums are paid.       Plan Amendment    
  Effective January 1, 2010, Medicare-eligible retirees who are enrolled in the Union Pacific Retiree Medical Program received a contribution to
a Health Reimbursement Account, which can be used to pay eligible out-of-pocket medical expenses. The impact of the plan amendment was reflected in the projected benefit obligation (PBO) at December 31, 2009.   
   Funded Status       We are required by GAAP to
separately recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of our pension and OPEB plans as an asset or liability. The funded status represents the difference between the PBO and the fair value of the plan assets. Our non-qualified (supplemental)
pension plan is unfunded by design. The PBO of the pension plans is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants, including the effect of assumed future salary increases. The PBO of the OPEB plan is equal to the accumulated
benefit obligation, as the present value of the OPEB liabilities is not affected by salary increases. Plan assets are measured at fair value. We use a December 31 measurement date for plan assets and obligations for all our retirement plans.
     Changes in our PBO and plan assets were as follows for the years ended December 31:   

61   

Table of Contents  

   Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
consist of:       
    Pre-tax amounts recognized in
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 consist of:       
    Other pre-tax changes recognized in
other comprehensive income during 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:       
    Amounts included in accumulated other
comprehensive income expected to be amortized into net periodic cost (benefit) during 2011:       
     Underfunded Accumulated Benefit
Obligation    The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) is the present value of benefits earned to date, assuming no future salary growth. The underfunded accumulated benefit obligation represents the difference between the ABO and the fair
value of plan assets. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the non-qualified (supplemental) plan ABO was $257 million and $229 million, respectively. The PBO, ABO, and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of the fair value of the plan assets were as follows for the years ended December 31:       
 
         62   

Table of Contents  

   The ABO for all defined benefit pension plans was $2.7 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively.       Assumptions    The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at
December 31:       
     Expense
      Both pension and OPEB expense are determined based upon the annual service cost of benefits (the actuarial cost of benefits earned
during a period) and the interest cost on those liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets that recognizes changes in fair value over a
five-year period. This practice is intended to reduce year-to-year volatility in pension expense, but it can have the effect of delaying the recognition of differences between actual returns on assets and expected returns based on long-term rate of
return assumptions. Differences in actual experience in relation to assumptions are not recognized in net income immediately, but are deferred and, if necessary, amortized as pension or OPEB expense.   
  The components of our net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) were as follows for the years ended December 31:   
   
     Assumptions    The
weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine expense were as follows for the years ended December 31:       
    The
discount rate was based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds with cash flows matching our plans  expected benefit payments. The expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return,
taking into account current and expected market conditions. The actual return (loss) on pension plan assets, net of fees, was approximately 14% in 2010, 23% in 2009, and (30)% in 2008.   
         63   

Table of Contents  

   Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the expense and liabilities reported
for health care plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate is based on historical rates and expected market conditions. The 2011 assumed health care cost trend rate for employees under 65 is 7.07%. It is assumed the rate will decrease gradually
to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2028 and will remain at that level. A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects on OPEB:   

Millions   
      
   One % pt. Increase   

One % pt. Decrease   

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  1  

$  
  (1  
  )    
 
     Effect on accumulated benefit obligation   

11  

(9  
  )         Cash Contributions
      The following table details our cash contributions for the qualified pension plans and the benefit payments for the non-qualified
(supplemental) pension and OPEB plans:       
    Our
policy with respect to funding the qualified plans is to fund at least the minimum required by law and not more than the maximum amount deductible for tax purposes. All contributions made to the qualified pension plans in 2010 were voluntary and
were made with cash generated from operations.      The non-qualified pension and OPEB plans are not funded and are not subject to any
minimum regulatory funding requirements. Benefit payments for each year represent supplemental pension payments and claims paid for medical and life insurance. We anticipate our 2011 supplemental pension and OPEB payments will be made from cash
generated from operations.       Benefit Payments       The
following table details expected benefit payments for the years 2011 through 2020:       
     Asset Allocation
Strategy       Our pension plan asset allocation at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and target allocation for 2011, are as follows:   

64   

Table of Contents  

   The investment strategy for pension plan assets is to maintain a broadly diversified portfolio
designed to achieve our target of an average long-term rate of return of 7.5%. We reduced our expected rate of return on plan assets to 7.5% in 2011 from 8% in 2010 to reflect our expected future returns on plan assets based on our current asset
allocation strategy. While we believe we can achieve a long-term average rate of return of 7.5%, we cannot be certain that the portfolio will perform to our expectations. Assets are strategically allocated among equity, debt, and other investments
in order to achieve a diversification level that reduces fluctuations in investment returns. Asset allocation target ranges for equity, debt, and other portfolios are evaluated at least every three years with the assistance of an independent
external consulting firm. Actual asset allocations are monitored monthly, and rebalancing actions are executed at least quarterly, if needed.      The pension plan investments are held in a Master Trust, with The Northern Trust Company. The majority of pension plan assets are invested in equity securities because equity portfolios have historically provided
higher returns than debt and other asset classes over extended time horizons and are expected to do so in the future. Correspondingly, equity investments also entail greater risks than other investments. Equity risks are balanced by investing a
significant portion of the plans  assets in high quality debt securities. The average credit rating of the debt portfolio exceeded A+ as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The debt portfolio is also broadly diversified and invested primarily
in U.S. Treasury, mortgage, and corporate securities. The weighted-average maturity of the debt portfolio was 12 years at both December 31, 2010 and 2009.      The investment of pension plan assets in securities issued by Union Pacific is specifically prohibited by the plan for both the equity and debt portfolios, other than through index fund holdings.   
   Fair Value Measurements       The pension plan
assets are valued at fair value. The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the investments measured at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.   
   Temporary Cash Investments    These investments consist of U.S. dollars and foreign currencies held in master trust accounts at The
Northern Trust Company. Foreign currencies held are reported in terms of U.S. dollars based on currency exchange rates readily available in active markets. These temporary cash investments are classified as Level 1 investments.   
   Registered Investment Companies    Registered Investment Companies are mutual funds, unit trusts, and other commingled funds registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mutual fund and unit trust shares are traded actively on public exchanges. The share prices for mutual funds and unit trusts are published at the close of each business day. Holdings of mutual funds and
unit trusts are classified as Level 1 investments. Other registered commingled funds are not traded publicly, but the underlying assets (stocks and bonds) held in these funds are traded on active markets and the prices for these assets are readily
observable. Holdings in other registered commingled funds are classified as Level 2 investments.       U.S. Government Securities 
  U.S. Government Securities consist of bills, notes, bonds, and other fixed income securities issued directly by the U.S. Treasury or by government-sponsored enterprises. These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data
provided by independent pricing sources. U.S. Government Securities are classified as Level 2 investments.       Corporate
Bonds   Debentures    Corporate bonds and debentures consist of fixed income securities issued by U.S. and non-U.S. corporations. These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing
sources. Corporate bonds   debentures are classified as Level 2 investments.       Corporate Stock    This investment
category consists of common and preferred stock issued by U.S. and non-U.S. corporations. Common and preferred shares are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these shares are readily available. Holdings of corporate stock are
classified as Level 1 investments.       Venture Capital and Buyout Partnerships    This investment category is comprised of
interests in limited partnerships that invest in privately-held companies. Due to the private nature of the partnership   
         65   

Table of Contents  

investments, pricing inputs are not readily observable. Asset valuations are developed by the general partners that manage the partnerships. These valuations are based on the application of
public market multiples to private company cash flows, market transactions that provide valuation information for comparable companies, and other methods. Holdings of limited partnership interests are classified as Level 3 investments.   
   Real Estate Partnerships and Funds    Most of the real estate investments are partnership interests similar to those described in the
Venture Capital and Partnerships category. This category also includes real estate investments held in less commonly used structures such as private real estate investment trusts and pooled separate accounts. Valuations for the holdings in this
category are not based on readily observable inputs and are primarily derived from property appraisals. Interests in private real estate partnerships, investment funds and pooled separate accounts are classified as Level 3 investments.   
   Common Trust and Other Funds    Common trust funds are comprised of shares or units in commingled funds that are not publicly traded.
The underlying assets in these funds (equity securities, fixed income securities, and commodity-related securities) are publicly traded on exchanges and price quotes for the assets held by these funds are readily available. Holdings of common trust
funds are classified as Level 2 investments.      This category also includes an investment in a limited liability company that invests in
publicly-traded convertible securities. The limited liability company investment is a fund that invests in both long and short positions in convertible securities, stocks, and fixed income securities. The underlying securities held by the fund are
traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these investments are readily available. Interest in the limited liability company is classified as a Level 2 investment.       Other Investments    This category includes several miscellaneous assets such as commodity hedge fund investments. These investments have valuations that are based on observable inputs and are classified
as Level 2 investments.      As of December 31, 2010, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:   

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.       
         66   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2009, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.       
  The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2010:       
 
  The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2009:       
 
   Other Retirement Programs        401(k)/Thrift
Plan    We provide a defined contribution plan (401(k)/thrift plan) to eligible non-union employees for whom we make matching contributions. We match 50 cents for each dollar contributed by employees up to the first six percent of
compensation contributed. Our plan contributions were $13 million in 2010, $14 million in 2009 and $14 million 2008.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

    Railroad Retirement System    All Railroad employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement
System (the System). Contributions made to the System are expensed as incurred and amounted to approximately $566 million in 2010, $562 million in 2009, and $620 million in 2008.   
   Collective Bargaining Agreements    Under collective bargaining agreements, we participate in multi-employer benefit plans that provide
certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for eligible union employees. Premiums paid under these plans are expensed as incurred and amounted to $60 million in 2010, $48 million in 2009, and $49 million in 2008.   
 
     6. Other Income       Other income
included the following for the years ended December 31:       

[a]   
     Receivable securitization fees totaling $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 are classified as interest expense. (See Note 3 and Note 10 for
further discussion.)          In June of 2009, we completed a $118 million sale of land to the Regional Transportation
District (RTD) in Colorado, resulting in a $116 million pre-tax gain. The agreement with the RTD involved a 33-mile industrial lead track in Boulder, Colorado.   
 
     7. Income Taxes       Components of
income tax expense/(benefit) were as follows for the years ended December 31:       
 
         68   

Table of Contents  

   For the years ended December 31, reconciliations between statutory and effective tax rates are as follows:
      
    In February of 2009, California
enacted legislation that changed how we determine the amount of income subject to California tax. This change reduced our 2009 deferred tax expense by $14 million.      In January of 2008, Illinois enacted legislation that changed how we determine the amount of income subject to Illinois tax. This change reduced our 2008 deferred tax expense by $16 million.   
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the expected future tax consequences of events that are reported in different periods for
financial reporting and income tax purposes. The majority of our deferred tax liabilities relate to differences between the tax bases and financial reporting amounts of our land and depreciable property, due to accelerated tax depreciation
(including bonus depreciation), revaluation of assets in purchase accounting transactions, and differences in capitalization methods.      Deferred income
tax liabilities/(assets) were comprised of the following at December 31:       
 
  When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining
whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence about future events.
In 2010, there is no valuation allowance because the deferred tax assets associated with the 2009 valuation allowance expired unrealized. Our total valuation allowance at December 31, 2009 was $8 million.   
  Tax benefits are recognized only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount
recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits are tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement
standards.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of changes in unrecognized tax benefits liabilities/(assets) from the beginning to
the end of the reporting period is as follows:       
 
  A portion of our unrecognized tax benefits would, if recognized, reduce our effective tax rate. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits relate to
tax positions for which only the timing of the benefit is uncertain. Recognition of these tax benefits would reduce our effective tax rate only through a reduction of accrued interest and penalties. The unrecognized tax benefits that would reduce
our effective tax rate are as follows:       
 
  We recognize interest and penalties as part of income tax expense. Total accrued liabilities for interest and penalties were $19 million and $13
million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total interest and penalties recognized as part of income tax expense (benefit) were $6 million for 2010, $(11) million for 2009, and $(9) million for 2008.   
  Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations have been completed and settled for all years prior to 1999, and the statute of limitations bars any
additional tax assessments. Some interest calculations remain open back to 1986. The IRS has completed its examinations and issued notices of deficiency for tax years 1999 through 2006. We disagree with many of their proposed adjustments, and we are
at IRS Appeals for these years. We anticipate a partial settlement of the tax years 1999-2004 during 2011. The IRS is examining the Corporation s federal income tax returns for 2007 and 2008. Several state tax authorities are examining our
state income tax returns for tax years 2003 through 2006.      In 2008, we signed a closing agreement resolving all tax matters at IRS
Appeals for tax years 1995 through 1998. In connection with the settlement, we paid the IRS $52 million of tax and $67 million of interest in 2008. We filed interest refund claims in 2009 for years 1995-1998, and received refunds of $17 million in
October of 2009. The audit settlement and interest refund claims had only immaterial effects on our income tax expense for 2008 and 2009.   
  We expect our unrecognized tax benefits to decrease significantly in the next 12 months. Of the $86 million balance at December 31, 2010, $68
million is classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, in anticipation of a partial settlement of the 1999-2004 tax years, as well as a reasonable possibility that some state tax disputes will be resolved in 2011.
  
         70   

Table of Contents  

8. Earnings Per Share    
  The following table provides a reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Common
stock options totaling 0.3 million, 4.6 million, and 1.0 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices of these options exceeded the
average market price of our common stock for the respective periods, and the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.   
 
     9. Comprehensive Income/(Loss)       Comprehensive income/(loss) was as follows:       

The after-tax components of accumulated other comprehensive loss were as follows:       

10. Accounts Receivable       Accounts receivable includes freight and other receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic
conditions. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, our accounts receivable were reduced by $5 million and $3 million, respectively. Receivables not expected to be collected in one year and the associated allowances are classified as other assets in our
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, receivables classified as other assets were reduced by allowances of $51 million and $67 million, respectively.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

    Receivables Securitization Facility    As discussed in Note 3, we adopted a new accounting
standard on January 1, 2010. As a result, we no longer account for the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under our receivables securitization facility as a sale. In addition, transfers of receivables occurring on or
after January 1, 2010, are reflected as debt issued in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors at December 31, 2010, is accounted for as a secured borrowing and is
included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year.      Under the receivables securitization
facility, the Railroad sells most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a bankruptcy-remote subsidiary. UPRI may subsequently transfer, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in eligible
accounts receivable to investors. The total capacity to transfer undivided interests to investors under the facility was $600 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors
under the facility was $100 million and $400 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $960 million and $817 million of accounts receivable at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the value of the interest retained by UPRI was $960 million and $417 million, respectively. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position.      The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the
availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by
investors would not change as of December 31, 2010. Should our credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the
right to discontinue the facility.      The Railroad collected approximately $16.3 billion and $13.8 billion of receivables during the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.   
  The costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates, program fees
paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The costs of the receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $6 million during 2010. Prior to adoption of the new
accounting standard, the costs of the receivables securitization facility were included in other income and were $9 million and $23 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively.      The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets, except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.   
  In August 2010, the receivables securitization facility was renewed for an additional 364-day period at comparable terms and conditions.
  
         72   

Table of Contents  

11. Properties       The
following tables list the major categories of property and equipment, as well as the weighted-average composite depreciation rate for each category:       

[a]   
     Includes a weighted-average composite depreciation rate for rail in high-density traffic corridors as discussed below.       

[b]   
     Other includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.       
   Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type
assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers.
Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service
lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross
tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes,   
         73   

Table of Contents  

and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60
depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.      We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track
assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:       

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. For all other depreciable
assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented
prospectively.      Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in
the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and
(ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of
the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service
lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the
amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.   
  For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the
retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. A gain or loss is recognized
in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.      When we purchase an asset, we
capitalize all costs necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use. However, many of our assets are self-constructed. A large portion of our capital expenditures is for replacement of existing track assets and other road properties, which
is typically performed by our employees, and for track line expansion and other capacity projects. Costs that are directly attributable to capital projects (including overhead costs) are capitalized. Direct costs that are capitalized as part of
self-constructed assets include material, labor, and work equipment. Indirect costs are capitalized if they clearly relate to the construction of the asset. These costs are allocated using appropriate statistical bases.   
  General and administrative expenditures are expensed as incurred. Normal repairs and maintenance, including rail grinding, are also expensed as
incurred, while costs incurred that extend the useful life of an asset, improve the safety of our operations or improve operating efficiency are capitalized.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. Amortization
expense is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the period of the related lease.   
 
     12. Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities    

13. Financial Instruments        Strategy and Risk    We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances for other than trading purposes to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel
prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of
effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as
our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from
favorable interest rate and fuel price movements.       Market and Credit Risk    We address market risk related to derivative
financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for
counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.   
   Determination of Fair Value    We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair
values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.       Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges
   We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate
debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in
managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.      Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair
value hedges using the short-cut method; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

   The following is a summary of our interest rate derivatives qualifying as fair value hedges:   
   
    We
recognized the fair value as a Level 2 valuation. A Level 2 valuation is defined as observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.      On February 25, 2010, we elected to terminate an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $250 million prior to the scheduled maturity and received cash of $20 million (which is comprised of $16
million for the fair value of the swap that was terminated and $4 million of accrued but unpaid interest receivable). We designated the swap agreement as a fair value hedge, and as such the unamortized adjustment to debt for the change in fair value
of the swap remains classified as debt due after one year in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense through April 15, 2012. As of December 31, 2010, we do not have any
interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.       Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash
flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had reductions of $3 million recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a
straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.       Earnings Impact    Our use of derivative financial instruments had the following impact on pre-tax income for the years ended December 31:   

Fair Value of Debt Instruments    The fair value of our short- and long-term debt was estimated using quoted market prices, where
available, or current borrowing rates. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of total debt was $10.4 billion, approximately $1.2 billion more than the carrying value. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of total debt was $10.8 billion,
approximately $945 million more than the carrying value. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately $303 million and $320 million, respectively, of fixed-rate debt securities contained call provisions that allowed us to retire the debt
instruments prior to final maturity, with the payment of fixed call premiums, or in certain cases, at par.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

14. Debt       Total debt
as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, net of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, is summarized below:       

[a]   
     2010 and 2009 included a write-up of $0 million and $15 million, respectively, due to market value adjustments for debt with qualifying fair value hedges
that are recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.           Debt Maturities    The
following table presents aggregate debt maturities as of December 31, 2010, excluding market value adjustments.       
    As of December 31, 2010, we have reclassified as long-term debt approximately $100 million of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflects our ability and intent to
refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis. At December 31, 2009, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $320 million of debt due within one year that we intended to
refinance at that time.       Mortgaged Properties    Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $3.2 billion and $3.4
billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire such railroad equipment.   
  As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying
indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the
mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds.   
   Credit Facilities    On December 31, 2010, we had $1.9 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the
facility). The facility is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2010. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and
rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered   
         77   

Table of Contents  

Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt ratings. The facility requires us to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At
December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009 (and at all times during these periods), we were in compliance with this covenant.   
  The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit
arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2010, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $35.5 billion of debt (as defined in the facility),
and we had $9.7 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control could
affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post
collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision. The facility will expire in April 2012 in accordance with its term, and we currently intend to replace the facility with a substantially
similar credit agreement on or before the expiration date, which is consistent with our past practices with respect to our credit facilities.      During 2010, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper and, at December 31, 2010, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Outstanding commercial paper balances are supported by our revolving credit
facility but do not reduce the amount of borrowings available under the facility.       Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving
credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for
dividends was $12.9 billion and $11.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       Shelf Registration Statement and
Significant New Borrowings    We filed a new shelf registration statement, which became effective February 10, 2010. Our Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to $3 billion of debt securities, replacing the $2.25 billion of
authority remaining under our shelf registration filed in March 2007. Under the shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred
stock in one or more offerings.      During 2010, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:

The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share
repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions.      We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities;
however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time. At
December 31, 2010, we had remaining authority to issue up to $2.5 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.       Debt
Exchange    On July 14, 2010, we exchanged $376 million of 7.875% notes due in 2019 (Existing Notes) for 5.78% notes (New Notes) due July 15, 2040, plus cash consideration of approximately $96 million and $15 million for accrued
and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. The cash consideration, recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes are being amortized as an adjustment of
interest expense over the term of the New Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $2 million and were
included in interest expense during the third quarter.       Debt Redemptions    On March 22, 2010, we redeemed $175 million
of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $16 million in the first quarter of   
         78   

Table of Contents  

2010. On November 1, 2010, we redeemed all $400 million of our outstanding 6.65% notes due January 15, 2011. The redemption resulted in a $5 million early extinguishment charge.
      Receivables Securitization Facility    At December 31, 2010, we have recorded $100 million as secured debt under our
receivables securitization facility. (See further discussion of our receivables securitization facility in Note 10.)   
 
     15. Variable Interest Entities       We have entered into various lease transactions in which the structure of the leases contain variable interest entities (VIEs). These VIEs were created solely for the purpose of doing lease transactions
(principally involving railroad equipment and facilities) and have no other activities, assets or liabilities outside of the lease transactions. Within these lease arrangements, we have the right to purchase some or all of the assets at fixed
prices. Depending on market conditions, fixed-price purchase options available in the leases could potentially provide benefits to us; however, these benefits are not expected to be significant.   
  We maintain and operate the assets based on contractual obligations within the lease arrangements, which set specific guidelines consistent within
the railroad industry. As such, we have no control over activities that could materially impact the fair value of the leased assets. We do not hold the power to direct the activities of the VIEs and, therefore, do not control the ongoing activities
that have a significant impact on the economic performance of the VIEs. Additionally, we do not have the obligation to absorb losses of the VIEs or the right to receive benefits of the VIEs that could potentially be significant to the VIEs.
     We are not considered to be the primary beneficiary and do not consolidate these VIEs because our actions and decisions do not have the
most significant effect on the VIE s performance and our fixed-price purchase price options are not considered to be potentially significant to the VIE s. The future minimum lease payments associated with the VIE leases totaled $4.2
billion as of December 31, 2010.   
 
     16. Leases       We
lease certain locomotives, freight cars, and other property. The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 included $2,520 million, net of $901 million of accumulated depreciation, and $2,754 million, net of
$927 million of accumulated depreciation, respectively, for properties held under capital leases. A charge to income resulting from the depreciation for assets held under capital leases is included within depreciation expense in our Consolidated
Statements of Income. Future minimum lease payments for operating and capital leases with initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2010, were as follows:   
   
    The majority of capital lease payments relate to locomotives. Rent expense for operating leases with terms exceeding one month was $624 million in 2010, $686 million in 2009, and $747 million in 2008. When cash
rental payments are not made on a straight-line basis, we recognize variable rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals and sub-rentals are not significant.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

17. Commitments and Contingencies        Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our
consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We
do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into
account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.       Personal Injury    The cost of personal
injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted
claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety
of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.      Our personal injury liability is discounted to present
value using applicable U.S. Treasury rates. Approximately 88% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims, and approximately 12% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2010. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate
outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $426 million to $464 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss is more probable
than any other. Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:       
     Asbestos    We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis
of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:   

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
         80   

Table of Contents  

   Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty
surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 22% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 78% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2010. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate
outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $162 million to $178 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss is more probable
than any other. In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2010, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Our asbestos-related
liability activity was as follows:       
    We believe that our estimates of
liability for asbestos-related claims and insurance recoveries are reasonable and probable. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as
the number of new claims to be filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if
strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with
respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.       Environmental    We are subject to federal, state, and local
environmental laws and regulations. We identified 294 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 31 sites that are the subject of
actions taken by the U.S. government, 17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate
environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.      When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we and our consultants perform environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of
the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and we can reasonably estimate such costs. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed
or readily determinable. At December 31, 2010, approximately 5% of our environmental liability was discounted at 2.8%, while approximately 12% of our environmental liability was discounted at 3.4% at December 31, 2009. Our environmental
liability activity was as follows:       
    The environmental liability includes
future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other
potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with
other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and   
         81   

Table of Contents  

quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local
laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.   
   Guarantees    At December 31, 2010, we were contingently liable for $382 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $3
million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building,
equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.       Indemnities    Our maximum
potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to
whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do
not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.   
 
     18. Share Repurchase Program       On May 1, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 40 million common shares by March 31, 2011. Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the
timing and volume of all repurchases. Any share repurchases under this program are expected to be funded through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand.
Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.       
     Subsequent Event    On
February 3, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to 40 million additional shares of our common stock under a new program effective from April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2014.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

19. Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited)        

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
      None.         Item 9A.
 Controls and Procedures        As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under
the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of
the design and operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based upon that evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this
report, the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified by the SEC, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   
  Additionally, the CEO and CFO determined that there have been no changes to the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) during the last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

      MANAGEMENT S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
      The management of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)). The Corporation s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Corporation s
management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.      All internal
control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   
  The Corporation s management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework.  Based on our assessment,
management believes that, as of December 31, 2010, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.      The Corporation s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on
the next page.      February 3, 2011   
         84   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  Union Pacific Corporation, its Directors, and Shareholders:      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2010, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2010 of the Corporation and our report dated February 4, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.   

Omaha, Nebraska      February 4,
2011   
         85   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9B.  Other Information     
  None.        PART III     
     Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance     

(a)  
    Directors of Registrant.         Information as to the names, ages, positions and offices with UPC, terms of office, periods of service, business experience during the past five years and certain other directorships held by each director or person
nominated to become a director of UPC is set forth in the Election of Directors segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit Committee and the independence of its members, along with information about the audit committee financial expert(s) serving on the Audit Committee, is set forth in the Audit
Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.       

(b)  
    Executive Officers of Registrant.         Information concerning the executive officers of UPC and its subsidiaries is presented in Part I of this report under Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries.

(c)  
    Section 16(a) Compliance.         Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth in the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance segment of the Proxy Statement and
is incorporated herein by reference.       

(d)  
    Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers of Registrant.      
  The Board of Directors of UPC has adopted the UPC Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers (the
Code). A copy of the Code may be found on the Internet at our website www.up.com/investors/governance. We intend to disclose any amendments to the Code or any waiver from a provision of the Code on our website.   
     Item 11.  Executive Compensation        Information concerning compensation received by our directors and our named executive officers is presented in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Summary Compensation Table, Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
Fiscal Year 2010, Outstanding Equity Awards at 2010 Fiscal Year-End, Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal Year 2010, Pension Benefits at 2010 Fiscal Year-End, Nonqualified Deferred Compensation at 2010 Fiscal Year-End, Potential Payments Upon
Termination or Change in Control and Director Compensation in Fiscal Year 2010 segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information regarding compensation of directors, including Board committee members, is
set forth in the By-Laws of UPC and the Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors, both of which are included as exhibits to this report. Information regarding the Compensation Committee is set forth in the
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and Compensation Committee Report segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

      Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters        Information as to the number of shares of our equity securities beneficially owned by each of our
directors and nominees for director, our named executive officers, our directors and executive officers as a group, and certain beneficial owners is set forth in the Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management segment of the Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which Union
Pacific Corporation common stock may be issued as of December 31, 2010:       

[2]   
     Does not include the retention units or retention shares described above in footnote 1.       
     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     
  Information on related transactions is set forth in the Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. We do not have any relationship with any outside third party that would enable such a party to negotiate terms of a material transaction that may not be
available to, or available from, other parties on an arm s-length basis.      Information regarding the independence of our directors
is set forth in the Director Independence segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
     Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
  Information concerning the fees billed by our independent registered public accounting firm and the nature of services comprising the fees for each
of the two most recent fiscal years in each of the following categories: (i) audit fees, (ii) audit-related fees, (iii) tax fees, and (iv) all other fees, is set forth in the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s
Fees and Services segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit
Committee s policies and procedures pertaining to pre-approval of audit and non-audit services rendered by our independent registered public accounting firm is set forth in the Audit Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

     PART IV           Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules         

(a)  
    Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, and Exhibits:      

(1)  
    Financial Statements         The financial statements filed as part of this filing are listed on the index to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, on page 49.   

(2)  
    Financial Statement Schedules         Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts      Schedules not listed above have been
omitted because they are not applicable or not required or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, or notes thereto.   

Exhibits are listed in the exhibit index beginning on page 91. The exhibits include management contracts, compensatory plans and
arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K by Item 601 (10) (iii) of Regulation S-K.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 4   th    day of February, 2011.       

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    

By   
     
   /s/ James R. Young    

James R. Young,    

Chairman, President, Chief    

Executive Officer, and Director        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below, on this 4   th    day of February, 2011, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.   

PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

AND DIRECTOR:   

/s/ James R. Young    

James R. Young,    

Chairman, President, Chief    

Executive Officer, and Director    

PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:   

/s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    

Robert M. Knight, Jr.,    

Executive Vice President - Finance    

and Chief Financial Officer    

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:   

/s/ Jeffrey P. Totusek    

Jeffrey P. Totusek,    

Vice President and Controller         DIRECTORS:

Andrew H. Card, Jr.*   

Michael R. McCarthy*    
 
    Erroll B. Davis, Jr.*   

Michael W. McConnell*    
 
    Thomas J. Donohue*   

Thomas F. McLarty III*    
 
    Archie W. Dunham*   

Steven R. Rogel*    
 
    Judith Richards Hope*   

Jose H. Villarreal*    
 
    Charles C. Krulak*   

* By   /s/ James J. Theisen, Jr.    

James J. Theisen, Jr., Attorney-in-fact   

89   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

90   

Table of Contents  

    UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Exhibit Index        

Exhibit No.   
      
   Description    

Filed with this Statement   

10(a)   
      
    Form of 2011 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement dated February 3, 2011.    

10(b)   
      
    Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives dated February 3, 2011.    

10(c)   
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives dated February 3, 2011.    

10(d)   
      
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, effective as January 1, 2009 as amended December 30,
2010.    

10(e)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan, dated as of November 16, 2000, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009, as amended February 3,
2011.    

12   
      
    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.    

21   
      
    List of the Corporation s significant subsidiaries and their respective states of incorporation.    

23   
      
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Consent.    

24   
      
    Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.    

31(a)   
      
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - James R.
Young.    

31(b)   
      
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

32   
      
    Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - James R. Young and Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

101   
      
    eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents submitted electronically: 101.INS (XBRL Instance Document), 101.SCH (XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document),
101.CAL (XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document), 101.LAB (XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document), 101.DEF (XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document) and 101.PRE (XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document). The following financial and related
information from Union Pacific Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (filed with the SEC on February 4, 2011), is formatted in XBRL and submitted electronically herewith: (i) Consolidated Statements of
Income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
2008, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Common Shareholders  Equity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, and (v) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.     
         91   

Table of Contents  

Incorporated by Reference   

3(a)   
      
    By-Laws of UPC, as amended, effective May 14, 2009, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
May 15, 2009.    

3(b)   
      
    Revised Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended through May 1, 2008, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Corporation s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.    

4(a)   
      
    Indenture, dated as of December 20, 1996, between UPC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as successor to Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-18345).    

4(b)   
      
    Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1999, between UPC and The Bank of New York, as successor to JP Morgan Chase Bank, formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-75989).    

4(c)   
      
    Form of Debt Security (Note) is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 2,
2010.    

Certain instruments evidencing long-term indebtedness of UPC are not filed as exhibits because the total amount of securities authorized under any single such
instrument does not exceed 10% of the Corporation s total consolidated assets. UPC agrees to furnish the Commission with a copy of any such instrument upon request by the Commission.    

10(f)   
      
    Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, effective as of January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(g)   
      
    Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009 is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(h)   
      
    Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended and restated in its
entirety effective as of January 1, 1989, including all amendments adopted through January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008.    

10(i)   
      
    Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended and restated in its entirety
effective as of January 1, 1989, including all amendments adopted through January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008.    

10(j)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Executive Incentive Plan, effective May 5, 2005, amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.     
         92   

Table of Contents  

10(k)   
      
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended and restated in its entirety, effective as January 1, 2009 is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(l)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors Plan, effective as of April 21, 2000, as amended November 16, 2006, January 30, 2007 and January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(m)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Non-Grandfathered Component), effective as of January 1, 2009
is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(n)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Grandfathered Component), as amended and restated in its
entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(o)   
      
    2008 Long Term Plan Amended and Restated Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(p)   
      
    The 1993 Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of UPC, as amended November 16, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Corporation s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.    

10(q)   
      
    UPC 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended November 16, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2006.    

10(r)   
      
    Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union Pacific Merger Co. and Southern Pacific Rail
Corporation (SP) is incorporated herein by reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(s)   
      
    Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR, Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern Pacific Transportation Company (SPT), The Denver   Rio
Grande Western Railroad Company (D RGW), St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp. (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington Northern Railroad Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe), on
the other hand, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(t)   
      
    Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between UPC, UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one hand, and BN and Santa Fe, on the other hand,
is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(u)   
      
    The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as amended January 25, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.     
         93   

Table of Contents  

10(v)   
      
    The Executive Life Insurance Plan of UPC, as amended October 1997, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.    

10(w)   
      
    Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.    

10(x)   
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.    

10(y)   
      
    Form of 2009 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2008.    

10(z)   
      
    Form of 2010 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2009.    

10(aa)   
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Directors is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.    

10(bb)   
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005.    

10(cc)   
      
    Executive Incentive Plan (2005)   Deferred Compensation Program, dated December 21, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.    

99   
      
    U.S. $1,900,000,000 5-year revolving credit agreement, dated as of April 20, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99 to the Corporation s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.     
         94   

<EX-10.(A)>
 2
 dex10a.htm
 FORM OF 2011 LONG TERM PLAN STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT

Form of 2011 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement 

Exhibit 10(a)         2011 LONG TERM PLAN          STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  Dated: February 3, 2011      This
Letter Agreement (the  Agreement ) will confirm an award to you of stock units ( Stock Units ), as of the date hereof, by Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan of the Company, as
amended from time to time (the  Plan ), a copy of which is included in this grant package on this website and made a part hereof.        STOCK UNITS        1.   GRANT OF UNITS .  The Company hereby awards to you the
number of Stock Units, as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, each evidencing the right to receive, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan, (i) one share of Union Pacific Corporation Common
Stock, $2.50 par value per share ( Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), provided the
applicable Performance Criteria described below have been satisfied.      2.   RESTRICTION PERIOD .  The period during which the
restrictions set forth herein and in the Plan shall apply to your right to receive the Stock Units granted to you shall commence on the date hereof and expire February 3, 2014 if and to the extent the Performance Criteria described below for
such Stock Units have been satisfied (the  Restriction Period ), subject to the provisions of Section 6 hereof. During the Restriction Period, you may be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments, subject to the provisions of
Section 4 and Section 6(iii) hereof.      3.   PERFORMANCE CRITERIA .  The Performance Criteria is annual Return on
Invested Capital ( ROIC ). However, such Performance Criteria is of no force and effect unless and until the Company has operating income ( Operating Income ) in one or more of fiscal years 2011, 2012 or 2013. The definition and
calculation of annual ROIC and Operating Income shall be determined in accordance with the Long Term Plan document approved and adopted by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ).
     You may earn Stock Units during the Restriction Period based on the Company s satisfaction of the Performance Criteria in
accordance with the ROIC targets and payout schedule approved by the Committee, subject to Section 6(iii) hereof. For the fiscal year   

ending December 31, 2011, you may earn up to one-third of your Stock Unit Target Award as shown on Exhibit A based on the first fiscal year (2011) of ROIC performance achieved. For the
fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, you may earn up to a total of two-thirds of your Stock Unit Target Award as shown on Exhibit A (less any Stock Units earned in the first fiscal year) based on the average of the first two fiscal years (2011
and 2012) of ROIC performance achieved. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, you may earn up to two times your Stock Unit Target Award as shown on Exhibit A (less any Stock Units earned in the first two fiscal years) based on the
average of all three fiscal years (2011, 2012, and 2013) of ROIC performance achieved.      4.   DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS .  For
all dividend record dates occurring while you are employed and between the date that Stock Units are earned and the date that shares are delivered to you, you shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those Stock Units which have
been earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof. If you earn Stock Units in accordance with Section 3 hereof that are payable to you as specified in Section 6(iii) hereof, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, you shall
further receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for all dividend record dates occurring after you are separated from service through the date the shares are delivered to you as provided in and subject to the adjustment described in Section 6(iii)
hereof. Any such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments; provided, however, that if you have elected to defer receipt of such Stock Units in
accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), payment of such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 12 of
the Plan.      5.   RESTRICTIONS .  (i) You shall be entitled to delivery of the shares of Common Stock only as specified in
Section 6 hereof; (ii) none of the Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of; (iii) your right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on
the part of the Company at the earlier of your separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, except as provided in Section 6(iii) hereof, or your receipt of Common Stock under Section 6 hereof; (iv) all of the Stock Units
shall be forfeited and all of your rights to such Stock Units and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company in the event of your separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary
without having a right to delivery of shares of Common Stock under Section 6 hereof; and (v) any Stock Units not earned as of the end of the Restriction Period shall be forfeited and all of your rights to such Stock Units shall terminate
without further obligation on the part of the Company.   
         2   

6.   LAPSE OF RESTRICTIONS AND PAYMENT OF STOCK UNITS . 
(i) Following the end of the Restriction Period and provided you have remained continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary through the end of the Restriction Period and absent any Change of Control before the end of the Restriction
Period, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned pursuant to the achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria shall be delivered to you (through your account at
the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2011, 2012 or 2013. The payment of the Stock Units under this
Section 6(i) shall be made to you as soon as practicable following the end of the Restriction Period, but in no event later than two and one-half
(2   1   /  2  ) months following the end of the calendar year that
includes the date on which the Restriction Period ends. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period when the Company determines that the delivery of shares hereunder would
violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements.
      (ii) If you have a separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary prior to the end of the
Restriction Period and prior to a Change in Control because you die or become disabled (as determined under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan), you, your estate or your beneficiary, as the case may
be, shall be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of the fiscal year ending prior to the date of your death or
disability, as the case may be, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2011, 2012 or 2013 and further provided that such fiscal year precedes the date of your death or disability. The payment of the Stock Units
under this Section 6(ii) shall be as soon as practicable following your separation from service, but in no event later than two and one-half
(2   1   /  2  ) months following the end of the calendar year that
includes the date on which you die or become disabled.       (iii) Section 9(e)(i) and Section 9(f) of the Plan pertaining
to the vesting and payment of Stock Units upon  Age 65 Retirement Status  shall not applicable, and instead, if you have a separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary prior to
  
         3   

the end of the Restriction Period and prior to a Change in Control because you retire after having attained age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a
Subsidiary s pension plan ( Retirement ), you, your estate or your beneficiary, as the case may be, shall be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned based on the average of all
three fiscal years (2011, 2012 and 2013) of the applicable Performance Criteria achieved prorated based on the number of fiscal years in the Restriction Period during which you remained continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary until
September 30   th    of that year ( e.g. , if you retire on or after
September 30, 2011 then you would be entitled to receive payment for 33   1   /  3  % of the earned Stock Units, if you retire on or after September 30, 2012 then you would be entitled to receive payment for
66   2   /  3  % of the earned Stock Units and if you retire on or
after September 30, 2013 than you would be entitled to receive payment for 100% of the earned Stock Units), provided that the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2011, 2012 or 2013. You shall be entitled to receive
Dividend Equivalent Payments respecting all Stock Units earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof through the end of the fiscal year ending before your Retirement for all dividend record dates occurring after your Retirement and during the
Restriction Period until you receive Common Stock under this Section 6(iii), notwithstanding your Retirement. The Committee shall adjust the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to you and/or the total number of shares of
Common Stock paid to you following the end of the Restriction Period so that the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to you do not exceed the amount that would have been made based on the number of Stock Units which are earned as
set forth in this Section 6(iii). The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(iii) shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the Restriction Period, but in no event later than two and one-half (2   1   /  2  ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the end of the
Restriction Period.         (iv) If a Change in Control occurs prior to the end of the Restriction Period and prior to
your death, disability or Retirement, or separation from service for any other reason, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units that would have been earned if the Performance Criteria shall have been satisfied at the greater of one
hundred percent of your Stock Unit Target Award as shown on Exhibit A or the number of Stock Units that would have been earned based on the Performance Criteria satisfied through the end of each fiscal year prior to the occurrence of such Change in
Control and through the end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be delivered to you (through your account at the Company s third party
  
         4   

administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2011, 2012 or 2013 and further provided that any such
calendar year precedes the date of the Change in Control. In either event following the Change in Control no additional Stock Units may be earned under this Agreement. Shares of Common Stock to which you are entitled pursuant to this
Section 6(iv) shall be delivered as soon as practicable following the Change in Control, but in no event later than two and one-half (2   1   /  2  ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Change in Control occurs.    
  (v) If you have a separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary for any other reason, with or without cause, prior to the earlier of the
end of the Restriction Period or a Change in Control, you will forfeit all Stock Units and all of your rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company.   
  (vi) You may elect to defer receipt of payment of shares underlying the Stock Units to the extent and according to the terms, if any, provided by
the Deferred Compensation Plan. If you do so elect to defer payment of shares underlying the Stock Units, such payments will be made in accordance with the Deferred Compensation Plan.   
  7.   WITHHOLDING .  Upon payment of the Stock Units, you must arrange for the payment to the Company (through the Company s third
party stock plan administrator, if applicable) of all applicable withholding taxes resulting therefrom promptly after notification of the amount thereof. You may elect to have shares withheld to pay withholding taxes, but only at the statutory
minimum rate, if a proper election is made to pay withholding taxes in this manner.      8.   SUBJECT TO PLAN .  The award
confirmed by this Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with Section 20 thereof, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.   
    PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY        9.   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as
confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). Your electronic signature also
acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to
protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   
         5   

10.   TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS .  By electronically accepting this
Agreement, you acknowledge that you developed or have had or will have access to one or more of the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations;
business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods
and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective
bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting this Agreement, you
agree that any unauthorized disclosures by you to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct within the meaning of the Plan.   
  11.   AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will not, unless
you receive prior written consent from the Company s Senior Vice President, Human Resources   Secretary or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. VP-HR   S ), or
unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with you when you leave the Company
any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      12.   PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC .  (i) By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that if you become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other railroad, this would
create a substantial risk that you would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the Company. You further
acknowledge that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after you leave the Company. Therefore, by electronically signing Exhibit A, you agree that for a period of one-year after you leave the Company, before accepting any
employment or affiliation with another railroad you will give written notice to the Sr. VP-HR   S of your intention to accept such employment or   
         6   

affiliation. You also agree to confer in good faith with the Sr. VP-HR   S concerning whether your proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without
improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. (ii) If the Sr. VP-HR   S and you are unable to reach agreement on this issue, you agree to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American
Arbitration Association, for final resolution. You also agree that you will not begin to work for another railroad until the Sr. VP-HR   S or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed
without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      13.   FAILURE TO COMPLY .  By
electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if you fail to comply with any of the promises that you made in Section 11 or 12 above, you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the
market value of any shares of Common Stock received) which you received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when you leave the Company or (ii) the date you fail to comply with any such promise you made in
Section 11 or 12, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with any such promise. You agree that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and
conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of
Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company.        NO DIRECT COMPETITION     
  14.   SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NO EMPLOYMENT WITH WESTERN ROADS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree for a period
of one year following your departure from the Company, you will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit the business of any of the Company s customers with whom you actually did business or otherwise had personal contact
while you were employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in the states in which the Company now operates. You further agree that for the same
time period, you will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner,
investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, anywhere in the
  
         7   

United States. For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Business  means the operation of a Class I railroad in the United States. This Section 14 is not intended to prevent you
from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business.      15.   ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you have carefully read and considered all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the restraints imposed upon you pursuant to Sections 11, 12 and 14. You
also agree that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable
in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent you from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which you are bound by such restraints.
You further acknowledge that, were you to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 11, 12 and 14, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. You therefore agree that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it,
including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 13 and 16, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against your breach or threaten breach of said covenants. You and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of
Sections 11, 12 and 14 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be
deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.      16.   VIOLATION OF PROMISES .  By
electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that if you violate any of your promises in Section 14, then you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) granted to
you by this Agreement which you received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when you leave the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with the promises you made in Section 14. You agree
that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment
obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company.   
         8   

GENERAL        17.   RESTATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL RESULTS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will return such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company as
determined by the Committee in its exclusive discretion, which shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company and you. The Committee will exercise its discretion only in the event that the Committee s certification of a level of ROIC
was based on financial results subsequently revised by a restatement of such financial results and only to the extent that such restated financial results would have entitled you to a lesser award of Common Stock under the Performance Criteria.
     18.   SEVERABILITY .  If any provision of this Agreement is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable
in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in force and
effect.      19.   CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION .  All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect
of this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and you hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal
court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement. Sections 12(ii) and 14 shall not apply to employees who are
subject to California law.      20.   EMPLOYMENT AT WILL .  In accordance with Section 22(a) of the Plan, this Agreement
shall not be construed to confer upon any person any right to be continued in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary.      21.
  DEFINED TERMS .  For purposes of this Agreement, capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified in the Plan, unless a different meaning is provided in this Agreement or a different meaning is plainly required by the context.
     22.   AMENDMENTS .  The Plan and this Agreement may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of
Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.        
       To confirm acceptance of
the foregoing, kindly enter your password and click the  Accept  button.   
         9   

Notice of Performance   
   Retention       Unit Award -Exhibit A   Award   
   Agreement    

Union Pacific Corporation      ID:
13-2626465     Union Pacific Corporation     1400 Douglas
Street     Omaha, NE 68179    

FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME   

Award Number:  
      
   OPTION_NUMBER    
 
   ADDRESS_LINE_1   

Plan:  
      
   EQUITY_PLAN    
 
   CITY, STATE ZIPCODE   

ID:  
      
   EMPLOYEE_ID         
      Effective 02/03/2011, you have been granted a performance
retention unit award of Union Pacific Corporation (the Company) common stock. Please take time to review the  2011 Long Term Plan Summary , which is attached herewith. The units are restricted until the Restriction Period Termination Date
shown below.       

Type of Grant:    
      
  LTP Retention Units   

MAXIMUM Number of retention units granted:        The Stock Unit Target Award (amount of retention units granted at Target is half of the amount shown)  .  The amount of units shown is the  maximum  number of shares that you are eligible to
receive in accordance with the program design shown in the Long Term Plan Summary. The actual number of shares paid out at vesting, if any, depends on applicable performance criteria being met.    
      
  X,XXX   

Restriction Period:    
      
  3 years   

Restriction Period Commencement Date:    
      
  02/03/2011   

Restriction Period Termination Date:    
      
  02/03/2014       For general tax purposes, Retention Units are valued at the time
of vesting. The closing price of Union Pacific Corporation common stock on the vesting date as recorded by  The Wall Street Journal  is used when preparing tax calculations.      We would like to call your attention to confidentiality and non-compete provisions in the Agreement and recommend that you review the terms and conditions of these provisions as fully set forth in the Agreement.
Please note that failure to comply with these provisions will result in the forfeiture of the award or will require that any value received from the vesting of this award be returned to the Company. In addition, once you accept the terms of the
Agreement, these provisions will be binding on you whether or not the award vests.       
      By accepting this award, you acknowledge that you are bound
by all of the terms of the Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time, and the Agreement delivered herewith, each of which is incorporated by reference in this Exhibit A.   
       
         10   

</EX-10.(A)>

<EX-10.(B)>
 3
 dex10b.htm
 FORM OF STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT FOR EXECUTIVES

Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives 

Exhibit 10(b)         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        Dated: 2/3/2011   
  This Agreement (the  Agreement ) will confirm an award to you of stock units ( Stock Units ), as of the date hereof, by Union
Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended from time to time (the  Plan ), a copy of which is included in this grant package on this website and made a part hereof.
       STOCK UNITS        1.   GRANT OF UNITS .  The Company hereby awards to you the number of Stock Units shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, each unit evidencing the right to receive, upon the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan, (i) one share of Common Stock of the Company, $2.50 par value per share ( Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been
payable on one share of Common Stock ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ).      2.   RESTRICTION PERIOD .  The restriction
period shall be 48 months, commencing on the date hereof and terminating on 2/3/2015, unless sooner terminated under provisions of the Plan not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or under the terms of this Agreement (the  Restriction
Period ).      3.   DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS .  You will have the rights of a shareholder only after shares of Common Stock
have been issued to you following termination of the Restriction Period and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares. Stock Units shall not entitle you to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock and there are no
voting rights with respect to your Stock Units. During the Restriction Period and during any period following the end of the Restriction Period described in the last sentence of Section 5 hereof in which delivery of shares of Common Stock is
delayed, unless otherwise determined by Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ), you shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments. Such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall
be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments; provided, however, that (i) if you have elected to defer receipt of the Stock Units in accordance with the terms of the Deferred
Compensation Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), payment of such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 12 of the Plan and (ii) if such Dividend
Equivalent Payments relate to Stock Units whose payment is delayed as described in the last sentence of Section 5 hereof, on the date such Stock Units are paid.   

4.   RESTRICTIONS .  (i) Except as provided in Section 5
hereof, you shall not be entitled to delivery of the stock until the expiration of the Restriction Period; (ii) none of the Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of prior to the payment of
the Stock Units to you as provided in Section 5 hereof; (iii) your right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earlier of your separation from service with the
Company or a Subsidiary, or at the end of the Restriction Period, except as provided in the last sentence of Section 4 hereof; and (iv) all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of your rights to such Stock Units and the right to
receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless you remain in the continuous employment of the Company or a Subsidiary for the entire Restriction Period, except as provided by Section 9(c) and
Section 9(d) of the Plan and the following sentence. Section 9(e) and Section 9(f) of the Plan pertaining to the vesting and payment of Stock Units upon Age 65 Retirement Status shall not be applicable, and instead, in the event you
remain continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2011, and are age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan (    62   /  10   Status ) at any time during the Restriction Period during your period
of continuous employment, you shall (i) receive payment for all of the Stock Units shown on Exhibit A as provided in Section 5 hereof, and (ii) be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in accordance with Section 3
hereof until the earlier of the end of the Restriction Period or payment of the Stock Units under Section 5 hereof, in each case, notwithstanding any separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary on or after attaining    62   /  10   Status.     
  5.   PAYMENT OF STOCK UNITS .  Subject to Section 4 and Section 6 hereof, shares of Common Stock equal to
the number of Stock Units shall be delivered to you (through your account at the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) or your beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, free of all restrictions within thirty
(30) days of the first to occur of your right to payment arising under Sections 9(c) or (d) (for purposes of each such section, treating
   62   /  10   Status as Retirement Status) of the Plan or the end of
the Restriction Period, provided, however, if your Stock Units are  deferred compensation  subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A, they shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the end of the Restriction Period in the
event that your right to payment (i) under Sections 9(c)(i)(B) or (d)(i) (for purposes of each such section, treating
   62   /  10   Status as Retirement Status) of the Plan arises before
the end of the Restriction Period and after your attaining
   62   /  10   Status, (ii) arises under Section 9(c)(iii)
of the Plan, or (iii) arises under Section 9(d)(ii) of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period in which the Company reasonably anticipates
that the delivery of shares hereunder would: (A) violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to      
         2   

any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements; or (B) result in the reduction or
elimination of the Company s deduction under Internal Revenue Code section 162(m) with respect to such delivery of shares, and (ii) the date on which shares are delivered to you (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a
delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other administrative matters; provided, however, that delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying Stock Units (and any
Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units or, if such Dividend Equivalent Payments are invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) for Stock Units not
subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies the  short-term deferral  exception described in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(b)(4) and for Stock Units subject to Internal Revenue Code
section 409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies Treas. Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(7).      6.   DEFERRAL .  You may elect
to defer receipt of payment of shares underlying the Stock Units pursuant to the terms of, and in accordance with the provisions of, the Deferred Compensation Plan. If you do so elect to defer payment of shares underlying the Stock Units, such
payments will be made in accordance with the Deferred Compensation Plan.      7.   WITHHOLDING .  Upon payment of the Stock Units,
you must arrange for the payment to the Company (through the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) of all applicable withholding taxes resulting therefrom promptly after notification of the amount thereof. You may elect
to have shares withheld to pay withholding taxes, but only at the statutory minimum rate, if a proper election is made to pay withholding taxes in this manner.      8.   SUBJECT TO PLAN .  The award confirmed by this Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with Section 20 thereof,
except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.        PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY     
  9.   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Company regards
certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof
( Confidential Information ). Your electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its
disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   
         3   

10.   TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS .  By electronically accepting this
Agreement, you acknowledge that you developed or have had or will have access to one or more of the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations;
business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods
and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective
bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting this Agreement, you
agree that any unauthorized disclosures by you to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct within the meaning of the Plan.   
  11.   AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will not, unless
you receive prior written consent from the Company s Senior Vice President, Human Resources   Secretary or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. VP-HR   S ), or
unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain
or take with you when you leave the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.   
  12.   PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC .  (i) By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that if you become an
employee, contractor, or consultant for any other railroad, this would create a substantial risk that you would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of
the other railroad to the detriment of the Company. You further acknowledge that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after you leave the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a
period of one-year after you leave the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another railroad you will give written notice to the Sr. VP-HR   S of your intention to accept such employment or affiliation. You also
agree to confer in good faith with the Sr. VP-HR   S concerning whether your proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.
(ii) If the Sr. VP-HR   S and you are unable to reach agreement on this issue, you agree to submit this   
         4   

issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. You also agree that you will not begin to work for another railroad until the
Sr. VP-HR   S or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.   
  13.   FAILURE TO COMPLY .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if you fail to comply with any of the promises
that you made in Section 11 or 12 above, you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the market value of any shares of Common Stock received) which you received at any time from 180 days prior to
the earlier of (i) the date when you leave the Company or (ii) the date you fail to comply with any such promise you made in Section 11 or 12, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with any such
promise. You agree that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this
repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company.   
    NO DIRECT COMPETITION     
  14.   SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NO EMPLOYMENT WITH WESTERN ROADS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a
period of one year following your departure from the Company, you will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit the business of any of the Company s customers with whom you actually did business or otherwise had personal
contact while you were employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in the states in which the Company now operates. You further agree that for the
same time period, you will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner,
investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, anywhere in the United States. For purposes of
this Agreement, the term  Business  means the operation of a Class I railroad in the United States. This Section 14 is not intended to prevent you from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business.
     15.   ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you have
carefully read and considered all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the restraints imposed upon you pursuant to   
         5   

Sections 11, 12 and 14. You also agree that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate
interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent you from obtaining
other suitable employment during the period in which you are bound by such restraints. You further acknowledge that, were you to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 11, 12 and 14, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. You
therefore agree that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 13 and 16, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against your breach or threaten breach of said
covenants. You and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 11, 12 and 14 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too
large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.      16.   VIOLATION OF PROMISES .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that if you violate any of your promises in Section 14, then you will be required to immediately deliver to the
Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) granted to you by this Agreement which you received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when you leave the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that
you have not complied with the promises you made in Section 14. You agree that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You
further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to
you by the Company.        GENERAL        17.   SEVERABILITY .  If any provision of this Agreement is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or
limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in force and effect.      18.   CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION .  All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah,
without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and you hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of
any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement. Sections 12(ii) and 14 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
         6   

19.   EMPLOYMENT AT WILL .  In accordance with Section 22(a) of the Plan, this
Agreement shall not be construed to confer upon any person any right to be continued in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary.      20.
  DEFINED TERMS .  For purposes of this Agreement, capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified in the Plan, unless a different meaning is provided in this Agreement or a different meaning is plainly required by the context.
     21.   AMENDMENTS .  The Plan and this Agreement may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of
Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.        
       To confirm acceptance of
the foregoing, kindly enter your password and click the  Accept  button.   
         7   

Notice of Grant of Award - Exhibit A   
     Award Agreement    

Union Pacific Corporation      ID:
13-2626465     Union Pacific Corporation     1400 Douglas
Street     Omaha, NE 68179    

FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME   

Award Number:  
      
   OPTION_NUMBER    
 
   ADDRESS_LINE_1   

Plan:  
      
   EQUITY_PLAN    
 
   CITY, STATE   ZIPCODE   

ID:  
      
   EMPLOYEE_ID         
      Effective 2/3/2011, you have been granted a retention stock
unit award of X,XXX units of Union Pacific Corporation (the Company) common stock. These units are restricted until the Restriction Period Termination Date shown below.   

Type of Grant:   
      
  Retention Units   

Number of Retention Units Granted:   
      
  X,XXX   

Restriction Period:   
      
  4 years   

Restriction Period Commencement Date:   
      
  2/3/2011   

Restriction Period Termination Date:   
      
  2/3/2015       Generally, for tax purposes, Retention Units are valued at the time
of vesting. The closing price of Union Pacific Corporation common stock on the vesting date as recorded by  The Wall Street Journal  is used when preparing tax calculations.      We would like to call your attention to confidentiality and non-compete provisions in the Agreement and recommend that you review the terms and conditions of these provisions as fully set forth in the Agreement.
Please note that failure to comply with these provisions will result in the forfeiture of the award or will require that any value received from the vesting of this award be returned to the Company. In addition, once you accept the terms of the
Agreement, these provisions will be binding on you whether or not the award vests.       
      By accepting this award, you acknowledge that you are bound
by all of the terms of the Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time, and the Agreement delivered herewith, each of which is incorporated by reference in this Exhibit A.   
       
         8   

</EX-10.(B)>

<EX-10.(C)>
 4
 dex10c.htm
 FORM OF NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT FOR EXECUTIVES

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives 

Exhibit 10(c)         EXECUTIVE NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT        Dated: 2/3/2011   
  This Agreement (the  Agreement ) will confirm a grant to you of a non-qualified stock option ( NQ ) as of the date hereof, by
Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan of the Company (the  Plan ), a copy of which is included in this grant package on this website and made a part hereof.   
    OPTION        1.
  GRANT OF OPTION .  The Company hereby grants to you an NQ to purchase all or any part of the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company, par value $2.50 per share ( Common Stock ), as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement,
on the terms and conditions as set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   OPTION PRICE .  The price at which the option shares
may be purchased under the NQ (the  Option Price ) is shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, said price having been determined in accordance with the procedures established by a committee of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions
of Section 6(a) of the Plan.      3.   DURATION AND EXERCISE OF THE OPTION .  The NQ shall be exercisable upon the terms and
conditions of the Plan, as supplemented by this Agreement and not otherwise.      Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the NQ may be
exercised, at any time and from time to time, but only during the period beginning on 2/3/2012, for one third of the total number of shares as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, on 2/3/2013, for an additional one third of the total number of
shares as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, and on 2/3/2014, for an additional one third of the total number of shares as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement and ending on 2/3/2021. The NQ must be exercised in portions of 100 shares, or any
integral multiple thereof, except to complete the exercise of the NQ.      The NQ is also subject to forfeiture or certain time limits for
exercise in the event of your termination of employment or death, as provided in Section 6(g) of the Plan and the following sentence. Section 6(g) of the Plan with respect to the forfeiture of the shares of the NQ that have not vested
prior to retirement shall not be applicable, and instead, in the event you remain continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2011, and retire at or after attaining age 62 with 10 years of service under the
provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan, you shall be able to exercise the NQ in accordance with and at the times described in the previous paragraph of this Section 3, notwithstanding your separation from service
with the Company or a Subsidiary, for a period of five (5) years following your separation from service.   

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no NQ may be exercised subsequent to 2/3/2021.
If this expiration date or any other expiration date described herein falls on a weekend or any other day on which the New York Stock Exchange is not open, you may not exercise your NQ after 3:45p.m. New York time on the last New York Stock Exchange
trading day prior to the expiration date.      4.   METHOD OF EXERCISE .  The NQ may be exercised, during your lifetime, only by
you. Exercise of the NQ shall be by appropriate notice accompanied by valid payment in the form of (a) a check; (b) an attestation form confirming your current ownership of whole shares of Company Common Stock equal in value to the Option
Price; and/or (c) an authorization to sell shares equal in value to the Option Price. Notices and authorizations shall be delivered and all checks shall be payable to the Company s third party stock plan administrator for the Company, or
as otherwise directed by the Company. Shares of Common Stock will be issued as soon as practicable. You will have the rights of a shareholder only after shares of Common Stock have been issued to you following exercise of the NQ. For administrative
or other reasons, including, but not limited to the Company s determination that the exerciseability of the NQ would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws, the Company may from time to time suspend the ability of employees to
exercise an NQ for limited periods of time, which suspensions shall not change the period in which the NQ is exerciseable.      5.
  APPLICABILITY OF THE PLAN .  This Agreement and the NQ granted hereunder are subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended in accordance with Section 20 thereof, except as otherwise provided in
this Agreement, and may not be assigned or transferred, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution in the case of your death, as provided in paragraph (f) of Section 6 of the Plan.   
  6.   WITHHOLDING TAXES .  Upon exercise of the NQ, you must arrange for the payment to the Company (through the Company s third
party stock plan administrator, if applicable) of all applicable withholding taxes resulting from such exercise promptly after notification of the amount thereof. You may elect to have shares withheld to pay withholding taxes, but only at the
statutory minimum rate, if a proper election is made to pay withholding taxes in this manner.        PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY
       7.   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the
Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential or proprietary information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any

Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). Your electronic acceptance also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from
not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   
  8.   TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you developed
or have had or will have access to one or more of the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery
methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design,
programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and
internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that any unauthorized disclosures by you to
any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct within the meaning of the Plan.      9.
  AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will not, unless you receive prior written consent from the Company s Senior Vice President, Human Resources  
Secretary or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. VP-HR   S ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any
subsequent employer or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with you when you leave the Company any property of the Company or any documents
(including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      10.   PRIOR NOTICE OF
EMPLOYMENT, ETC .  (i) By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that if you become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other railroad, this would create a substantial risk that you would, intentionally or
unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the Company. You further acknowledge that such disclosures would be particularly damaging
if made shortly after you leave the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a period of one-year after you leave the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with

another railroad you will give written notice to the Sr. VP-HR   S of your intention to accept such employment or affiliation. You also agree to confer in good faith with the Sr.
VP-HR   S concerning whether your proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. (ii) If the Sr. VP-HR   S and you are
unable to reach agreement on this issue, you agree to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. You also agree that you will not begin to work for another
railroad until the Sr. VP-HR   S or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.   
  11.   FAILURE TO COMPLY .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if you fail to comply with any of the promises
that you made in Section 9 or 10 above, (a) the NQ, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited and cancelled and (b) you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount
(in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the NQ less the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by you upon
exercise of the NQ at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when you leave the Company or (ii) the date you fail to comply with any such promise that you made in Section 9 or 10, to 180 days after the date when
the Company learns that you have not complied with any such promise. You agree that you will deliver such amount (either in cash or in shares of Common Stock) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further
agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by
the Company.        NO DIRECT COMPETITION        12.   SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NO EMPLOYMENT WITH WESTERN ROADS .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a period of one year following your departure from the Company, you will
not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit the business of any of the Company s customers with whom you actually did business or otherwise had personal contact while you were employed by the Company, for the purpose of
providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in the states in which the Company now operates. You further agree that for the same time period, you will not, directly or indirectly, engage in
any activity which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor

(other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant
anywhere in the United States. For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Business  means the operation of a Class I railroad in the United States. This Section 12 is not intended to prevent you from engaging in any activity that is
not the same as or competitive with the Business.      13.   ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF .  By electronically accepting this
Agreement, you acknowledge that you have carefully read and considered all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the restraints imposed upon you pursuant to Sections 9, 10 and 12. You also agree that each of the restraints contained
herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and
geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent you from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which you are bound by such restraints. You further acknowledge that, were you to breach
any of the covenants contained in Sections 9, 10 and 12, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. You therefore agree that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth
in Sections 11 and 14, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against your breach or threaten breach of said covenants. You and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 9, 10 and 12 shall be determined by any court
of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the
maximum extent permitted by law.      14.   FAILURE TO COMPLY .  By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if
you fail to comply with any of the promises that you made in Section 12 above, (a) the NQ, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited and cancelled and (b) you will be required to
immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the NQ less the exercise price paid for such shares to the
extent such shares were acquired by you upon exercise of the NQ at any time from 180 days prior to the date when you leave the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with any such promise. You agree
that you will deliver such amount (either in cash or in shares of Common Stock) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation
by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company.   

GENERAL        15.   SEVERABILITY .  If any provision of this Agreement is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or
limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in force and effect.      16.   CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION .  All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah,
without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and you hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of
any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement. Sections 10(ii) and 12 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
  17.   EMPLOYMENT AT WILL .  In accordance with Section 22(a) of the Plan, this Agreement shall not be construed to confer upon any
person any right to be continued in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary.      18.   DEFINED TERMS .  For purposes of this
Agreement, capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified in the Plan, unless a different meaning is provided in this Agreement or a different meaning is plainly required by the context.   
  19.   AMENDMENTS .  The Plan and this Agreement may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to
the extent provided in the Plan.             
  To confirm acceptance of the foregoing, kindly enter your password and click the  Accept  button.   

FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME   

Option Number:   
      
   OPTION_NUMBER    
 
   ADDRESS_LINE_1   

Plan:   
      
   EQUITY_PLAN    
 
   CITY-, STATE ZIPCODE   

ID:   
      
   EMPLOYEE_ID         
      Effective 2/3/2011, you have been granted a Non-Qualified
Stock Option to buy X,XXX shares of Union Pacific Corporation (the Company) stock at $XXXX per share. The option price is the closing price of Union Pacific Corporation common stock on the date of grant as recorded by  The Wall Street Journal. 
     Shares in each period will become fully vested on the date shown.       
    We would like to call your attention to
confidentiality and non-compete provisions in the Agreement and recommend that you review the terms and conditions of these provisions as fully set forth in the Agreement. Please note that failure to comply with these provisions will result in the
forfeiture of the award or will require that any value received from the vesting of this award be returned to the Company. In addition, once you accept the terms of the Agreement, these provisions will be binding on you whether or not the award
vests.              By accepting this award, you acknowledge that you are bound by all of the terms of the Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and the Agreement delivered herewith, each of which is incorporated by
reference in this Exhibit A.           

</EX-10.(C)>

<EX-10.(D)>
 5
 dex10d.htm
 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10(d)        
       DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN    
   (409A Non-Grandfathered Component)        of        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   (Originally effective as January 1, 2009, with amendments approved December 30, 2010.)    

ARTICLE ONE         Scope of
Plan and Definitions         

1.1   
    Purpose and Scope of Plan   - The purpose of the Plan (this and other capitalized terms having the meanings set forth below) is to provide a deferral opportunity and
related benefits to Eligible Employees who participate in EIP and SIP. The Plan is intended to be an unfunded nonqualified deferred compensation plan that is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group
of management or highly compensated employees of the Company, pursuant to sections 201, 301 and 401 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ) and, as such, to be exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3
and 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA. The rights of each Participant and his Beneficiaries to benefits under the Plan shall be governed by the Plan as set forth herein and as it may hereafter be amended from time to time. This Plan is effective
January 1, 2009, unless expressly provided otherwise herein.         

1.2   
    Applicability   - The Deferred Compensation Plan was bifurcated into two components, effective January 1, 2009. As reflected in the terms of this
Non-Grandfathered Plan, one such component is applicable solely to those amounts that were not, as of December 31, 2004, both credited to a Participant s Account and fully vested or as to which the Participant had a vested right in
accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004 (including related investment gains and losses occurring thereafter). With respect to any other amounts credited to a Participant s account under
the Deferred Compensation Plan, the rights of the Participant and his Beneficiaries shall be governed by the component of the Deferred Compensation Plan known as the  Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific
Corporation, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009.  Prior to January 1, 2009, with respect to all amounts credited under the Deferred Compensation Plan that were subject to section 409A of the Code, the Deferred
Compensation Plan was administered in good faith compliance with section 409A of the Code.         

1.3   
    Definitions   - As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:

(a)   
     Account  shall mean the entries maintained on the books of the Company which represent a Participant s interest under the Non-Grandfathered Plan. The term
 Account  shall refer to:         

(1)   
    The value of amounts credited to a Participant under the Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on January 1, 2005, other than amounts (including investment gains
and losses thereon) which under the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan were credited and fully vested or as to which the Participant had a vested right, as of December 31, 2004, valued in accordance with Article 3 and adjusted for payments
made pursuant to Article 4.     
         1   

(2)   
    The value of amounts credited to a Participant s Account pursuant to Section 2.1, valued in accordance with Article 3 and adjusted for payments made pursuant to
Article 4.        Under no circumstances shall a Participant s Account under this Non-Grandfathered Plan be
deemed to include amounts (including investment gains and losses thereon) which under the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan were credited and fully vested or as to which the Participant has a vested right as of December 31, 2004.

(b)   
   Award  shall mean an award as defined under EIP or SIP consisting of cash or stock units. Stock options or retention share awards are not eligible for deferral under
this Plan.         

(c)   
     Award Account  shall mean the entries maintained on the books of the Company which represent a Participant s interest under the Plan with respect to each
separate Award payable to the Participant under EIP or SIP that the Participant elects to defer under the terms of this Non-Grandfathered Plan. Each Award Account shall separately reflect the Participant s interest in each investment fund
established under Section 3.1.         

(d)   
     Beneficiary  shall mean the person designated by a Participant to receive his interest under the Deferred Compensation Plan in the event of his death hereunder
pursuant to procedures adopted by the Committee. Absent such designation, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be his estate.         

(e)   
   Committee  shall mean the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or such other committee of the Board of Directors as may from
time to time be designated by the Board of Directors to administer the Deferred Compensation Plan.         

(f)   
     Deferred Compensation Plan  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. The Deferred
Compensation Plan is comprised of the following components, each of which is set forth in a separate document: (1) The Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component), and (2) The Union Pacific
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component).         

(g)   
     EIP  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Executive Incentive Plan, effective May 5, 2005, and as it may thereafter be amended from time to time, and
any successor executive incentive plan.     
         2   

(h)   
     Eligible Employee  shall mean an employee eligible to receive an Award who the Committee has designated as eligible to participate in this Plan.

(i)   
     Participant  shall mean (1) any Eligible Employee for whom credits have been or are being made hereunder, or (2) any former Eligible Employee for whom
credits have been made hereunder and who either (A) continues to be employed by the Company or an Affiliated Company, or (B) has an interest in all or a portion of his Account which has not been distributed pursuant to Article 4.

(j)   
     Plan  or  Non-Grandfathered Plan  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component), effective as
of January 1, 2009 as set forth herein, and as it may hereafter be amended from time to time.         

(k)   
     Separation from Service  shall mean a  separation from service  with the Company and all Affiliated Companies within the meaning of Code section 409A
and the regulations promulgated thereunder.         

(l)   
     SIP  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, effective April 20, 2001, as amended; and the Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan, effective April 16, 2004, and as it may thereafter be amended from time to time, or any successor stock incentive plan.         

(m)   
     Thrift Plan  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Thrift Plan, as in effect from time to time.     

1.4   
    Terms Defined in the Thrift Plan   - For all purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings specified in the Thrift Plan, unless a different
meaning is plainly required by the context:  Affiliated Company   Board of Directors   Code   Company   Employee   ERISA  and  Plan Year.      

1.5   
    Other Definitional Provisions   - The terms defined in Sections 1.3 and 1.4 of the Plan shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the
terms defined. The masculine pronoun, whenever used, shall include the feminine and    vice versa   . The words  hereof,   herein  and  hereunder  and words of similar import when used in the Plan shall
refer to the Plan as a whole and not to any particular provision of the Plan, unless otherwise specified.     
         3   

ARTICLE TWO         Deferrals
and Credits         

2.1   
    Deferrals and Credits           

(a)   
    The Committee may permit an Eligible Employee to elect to make deferrals from Awards (or, in the case of an Award under EIP, a portion of such Award) to be credited under
the Plan by filing an Award deferral agreement with the Committee on such form as may prescribed by the Committee for such purpose, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may from time to time impose in its sole discretion.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, such agreement must be filed within the period permitted under paragraph (b) below and shall authorize the Company or the Affiliated Company by which the Eligible Employee is employed to reduce the Eligible
Employee s Award as elected by the Eligible Employee as of the date determined pursuant to subparagraph (c) below. The Company shall credit such amount to the Eligible Employee s Account under the Plan.     

(b)   
    Any election by an Eligible Employee to defer an Award pursuant to paragraph (a) must be made:     

(1)   
    If the Award is not performance-based compensation as defined under Code section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder, prior to the beginning of the calendar
year in which the Eligible Employee performs the services for which the Award is payable; and         

(2)   
    If the Award is performance-based compensation, as defined under Code section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder, at least six (6) months prior to the
end of the performance period to which the Award relates and before the date as of which such performance-based compensation becomes readily ascertainable, within the meaning of Code section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder, provided,
however, that the Eligible Employee is continuously employed from the earlier of the beginning of such performance period or the date the performance goals for such performance period are established through the date of the deferral election.

(c)   
      An Eligible Employee s deferral under paragraph (a) above shall be made as of the same date that such Award would have been payable to the
Eligible Employee under EIP or SIP had such Award not been deferred under the Plan. In the event the Eligible Employee satisfies the requirements for an Award under the EIP but has a Separation from Service before the date the EIP Award would have
been paid to the Eligible Employee had such Award not been deferred under the Plan, it shall nevertheless be paid in accordance with such deferral election and the terms of this Plan (including without limitation the Specified Employee Restriction
at Section 4.2) with respect to the implementation of such deferral election.   1             
 
         4   

ARTICLE THREE    
    Valuation of Accounts         

3.1   
    Establishment of Investment Funds   - The Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion to provide a Participant with one or more investment funds for the
Participant s Account and to add, delete, consolidate, substitute or otherwise change any such investment funds from time to time as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan that may be
interpreted to the contrary, the investment funds are to be used for measurement purposes only, and a Participant s election of any such investment fund, the allocation of the Participant s Account thereto, the calculation of additional
amounts and the crediting or debiting of such amounts to a Participant s Account shall not be considered an actual investment of a Participant s Account in any such investment fund.     

3.2   
    Transfers Between Investment Funds   - Subject to such rules as the Committee may prescribe from time to time in its sole discretion, a Participant may elect to
transfer such portion of a Participant s interest in any investment fund as permitted by the Committee to any other available investment fund. Such rules may require that a Participant s Account under this Non-Grandfathered Plan is
commingled for investment purposes with any  Account  a Participant may have in the Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component). However, separate recordkeeping shall be maintained with respect to
the portions of the Participant s benefit in the Deferred Compensation Plan attributable to its Grandfathered and Non-Grandfathered components.         

3.3   
    Valuation and Accounting   -         

(a)   
    Each investment fund shall be valued as such times and in accordance with such method(s) of valuation as determined from time to time in the sole discretion of the
Committee, and the value of each Participant s Account shall be determined by reference to the portion of the Participant s Account allocable to each investment fund. The value of each Participant s interest in an investment fund may
be measured in units, shares or dollars.         

(b)   
    The value of a Participant s Account shall equal the aggregate value of the investment funds allocable to such Account.     
         5   

ARTICLE FOUR         Payments

4.1   
    Payments on Separation from Service or Date Certain   -         

(a)   
      A Participant who fails to make a timely election described in subparagraph (b) shall be deemed to have elected to receive the value of his Award
Account at the time of his Separation from Service in a single lump-sum payment. Subject to Section 4.2, such payment shall be made to the Participant (or if such Participant is not living at the time of payment, to such Participant s
Beneficiaries) as soon as administratively practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs or, if later,
ninety (90) days after such Separation from Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Award Account established for an Award attributable to SIP to which an amount is credited under Section 2.1(c) by reason of a Participant s
disability shall be paid as soon as administratively practicable following the date on which such amount is credited to the Award Account, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year or the
15   th    day of the third calendar month following the date on which such amount
is credited to the Award Account, regardless of any election made by the Participant.          

(b)   
     
     (1)   
     
    A Participant who has any Award Account in the Plan as of any time during the 2008 calendar year may elect in writing, according to such rules and using such
forms as may be prescribed by the Committee, to have any such Account paid to him in one of the forms specified in paragraph (c) below, provided such Participant s Separation from Service occurs after December 31, 2008. Such election
must be made no later than December 31, 2008.         

(2)   
    A Participant who makes a deferral election under Section 2.1 for an Award made after December 31, 2008 may elect in writing, according to such rules and using
such forms as may be prescribed by the Committee, to have the Award Account attributable to such Award paid to him in one of the forms specified in paragraph (c) below. Such election must be made before the end of the period in which to make a
deferral election under Section 2.1(b) with regard to such Award.         

(c)   
    A Participant may elect to have his Award Account paid to him in accordance with one of the following payment options, subject to Sections 4.2 and 4.3:

(1)   
  A single lump sum distribution as provided in subparagraph (a) payable at the earlier of (i) July of the year selected by the Participant or (ii) within thirty
(30) days of the Participant s Separation from Service.     
         6   

(2)   
    A single lump-sum distribution as provided in subparagraph (a) payable (i) in the year of the Participant s Separation from Service or (ii) if selected
by the Participant, January of the next year following such Separation from Service;         

(3)   
    Annual installments over a period not to exceed fifteen (15) years (such installment period to be elected by the Participant), beginning (i) as soon as
administratively practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs or, if later, ninety (90) days after
such Separation from Service, or (ii) if elected by the Participant, January of the next year following such Separation from Service, with (under either option) subsequent installments paid in January of each subsequent year, with each
installment determined by dividing the value of the Participant s then-undistributed Award Account under the Non-Grandfathered Plan by the number of installments remaining to be made; or     

(4)   
    A single lump-sum distribution payable in January of a year following the Participant s Separation from Service that is not earlier than two (2) years, and not
later than fifteen (15) years following the Participant s Separation from Service, such year to be elected by the Participant. The amount of such distribution shall equal the balance in the Participant s Award Account at such
specified date. Pending the lump-sum distribution as aforesaid, the Participant s Award Account shall continue to be invested in accordance with Article Three. If the Award Account relates to amounts deferred into this Plan from the SIP, the
increase or decrease in the value of such Award Account shall be accumulated as part of the Award Account and paid out as part of such lump sum distribution. If the Award Account relates to amounts deferred into this Plan from the EIP, then at the
end of each calendar quarter following the Participant s Separation from Service, the net increase or decrease in the value of such Award Account, measured from the first valuation of such Award Account pursuant to Article Three which coincides
with or next follows the Participant s Separation from Service, shall be determined. Subject to subparagraph (d)(1)(A), the amount of any such net increase for any calendar quarter shall be distributed to the Participant within thirty
(30) days following the end of such calendar quarter.         

(d)   
    A Participant who has made the election or the deemed election described in subparagraphs (b) or (a) respectively may elect in writing to modify the form of
payment and/or the payment commencement date for any Award Account (a  modification election ) in accordance with the following rules:         

(1)   
    When a Participant s existing form of payment     
         7   

(A) is described in subparagraphs (a), (c)(2) or (c)(3) above, a Participant may elect to receive the
Participant s Award Account in the form set forth in paragraph (c)(2), (c)(3) and (c)(4) above, provided that any election of the form described in subparagraph (c)(4) above shall not provide separate quarterly payments of investment income,
     (B) is described in subparagraph (c)(1) above, a Participant may (i) elect to receive the Participant s Award Account in a
single lump sum distribution in July of a later year, provided such July occurs before the Participant s Separation from Service or (ii) elect to receive the Participant s Award Account in the form described in subparagraph (c)(2),
(c)(3) or (c)(4) above, provided that any election of the form described in subsection (c)(4) above shall not provide separate payments of investment income, and      (C) is described in subparagraph (c)(4) above, a Participant may elect to receive the Participant s Account in the form described in subsection (c)(3) above or change to a later date as of which the
Participant will be paid a single lump-sum under subparagraph (c)(4) above.       

(2)   
    A Participant s modification election shall be made both prior to his Separation from Service and at least twelve (12) months prior to the date on which payments
would have commenced in accordance with his prior election.         

(3)   
    Notwithstanding the payment date indicated by the form of payment elected thereby, a Participant s modification election to alter the date on which his payments will
commence and/or the form in which payment is made must have the effect of postponing the payment commencement date by at least five (5) years, and shall be administered accordingly. A Participant shall be permitted to make a modification
election or elections with respect to (i) all of his Award Accounts with respect to amounts deferred from the SIP that are payable at the same time and in the same form; (ii) all of his Award Accounts with respect to amounts deferred from
the EIP that are payable at the same time and in the same form, and (iii) fifty percent (50%) of the balance as of the applicable payment date of the Award Account(s) attributable to deferrals from the SIP or EIP, as the case may be, that
are payable in accordance with subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) in the same year elected by the Participant in accordance with subparagraph 4.1(c)(1), each of which shall be considered a separately identified amount to which the Participant is entitled to
payment on a determinable date with the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-2(b)(2)(i), in accordance within such rules as may be established by the Committee for this purpose consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code and the regulations thereunder. No such modification election shall be permitted if the payment commencement date that was previously elected was more than ten (10) years after the Participant s Separation from Service.
    
         8   

(4)   
    In the case of a Participant who desires to (A) change the method of payment from a single lump-sum distribution to annual installments, or (B) postpone the
payment commencement date of annual installments that he previously elected, the maximum number of annual installments shall be fifteen (15), minus the number of years (with a fractional year rounded up to a full year) between the Participant s
Separation from Service and the postponed payment commencement date.         

(5)   
    For purposes of this paragraph (d),        (A) the
date as of which payments to a Participant would have commenced, absent the election provided by this paragraph, shall be deemed to be the first possible date as of which such payments could have been made to the Participant;   
  (B) the quarterly payment of investment income provided under paragraph (c)(4) above shall be treated as a separate form of payment from the single
lump-sum distribution provided by such paragraph; and      (C) the entitlement to a series of installment payments shall be treated as the
entitlement to a single form of payment.       

(e)   
    On the death of a Participant who has not received payment of his full Account under subparagraphs (a) or (c), the Committee shall cause the unpaid balance of the
Participant s vested account to be paid in a single lump-sum payment to such Participant s Beneficiaries. Such payment shall be made as soon as administratively practicable following completion of the first valuation of the
Participant s Account pursuant to Article Three which coincides with or next follows the Participant s date of death, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Participant s date of death occurs or, if
later, ninety (90) days after such date of death.         

(f)   
    Subject to Sections 4.2 and 4.3 and notwithstanding the deemed election or election of a Participant described in Section 4.1(a) or (b) respectively, any Award
Account established for an Award attributable to SIP, other than such an Award in which the Participant has vested due to such Participant s disability, which is granted in 2011 that is not performance-based compensation, as defined under Code
section 409A, shall be paid to a Participant:         

(1)   
    who has a Separation from Service before February 3, 2015, in a single sum as soon as administratively practicable following such date, but in no event later than the
end of the 2015 calendar year or, if later, ninety (90) days after such date or;         

(2)   
      who has a Separation from Service on or after February 3, 2015, in accordance with the payment option set forth in Section 4.1(c) and elected
     
         9   

by the Participant (or in accordance with Section 4.1(a) in the event the Participant fails to make such election); provided, however, that a Participant who has elected the form of payment
set forth in Section 4.1(c)(1) shall be paid at the earlier of (i) July of the year selected by the Participant that is after 2015 or (ii) within thirty (30) days of the Participant s Separation from Service.   2         

4.2   
    Specified Employee Restriction   - Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, no payment shall be made to a  specified employee  (as determined
in accordance with a uniform policy adopted by the Company with respect to all arrangements subject to Section 409A of the Code maintained by the Company and its Affiliated Companies) on account of such specified employee s Separation from
Service until six (6) months plus one day following such specified employee s Separation from Service; provided however, in the event of the specified employee s death before his payment commencement date, this provision shall not
prevent payment of death benefits at the time prescribed by Section 4.1(e).         

4.3   
    Additional Restrictions on Payment Options   - Notwithstanding anything in Section 4.1 to the contrary; except, however the last sentence of subparagraph 4.1(a):

(a)   
    the Participant may always elect the payment option described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) (providing for payment as of a specified date prior to Separation from
Service) with respect to amounts to be deferred to an Award Account, regardless of the payment options the Participant may have elected with respect to any Award Accounts previously established under this Non-Grandfathered Plan.

(b)   
    with regard to the payment options described in subparagraphs 4.1(c)(2), 4.1(c)(3) or 4.1(c)(4) (each providing for payment following Separation from Service and
henceforth referred to as the  Separation Payment Options ), the Participant may elect only one such Separation Payment Option with respect to (i) all Award Accounts consisting of amounts deferred into this Plan from the SIP and
(ii) all Award Accounts consisting of amounts deferred into this Plan from the EIP (other than, in each case, Award Accounts for which the payment option described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) has been elected). A Participant s initial
election of a Separation Payment Option, with respect to amounts deferred from the SIP or EIP, as the case may be, shall apply to all subsequent deferrals from the SIP or EIP, as applicable, unless the Participant elects the payment option described
in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) for such subsequent deferral.         

(c)   
    a Participant s modification election made in accordance with Section 4.1(d) may not change the form of payment of an Award Account from a Separation Payment
Option to the form of payment described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1). In addition, any change to a different Separation Payment Option must apply to all Award Accounts attributable to deferrals from the SIP or EIP, as the case may be, for which a
Separation Payment Option has been elected.         
 
         10   

(d)   
      in the event an Award Account is to be paid in accordance with the payment option described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) prior to the Participant having a
Separation from Service, and at the time of such payment the Company reasonably anticipates that its deduction with respect to the Award Account payable to such Participant would be reduced or eliminated by Code section 162(m), such payment shall be
delayed until the Company s first taxable year in which it reasonably anticipates that its deduction of such payment will not be reduced or eliminated by Code Section 162(m), and following such determination will then be paid in a single
lump-sum distribution as soon as administratively practicable in such taxable year.   3      ,      4         

4.4   
    Responsibility for Payments   - All payments attributable to credits made hereunder on behalf of a Participant shall be made by the Company on its own behalf or on
behalf of the Affiliated Company by who such Participant was employed when such credits were made. Such Affiliated Company shall reimburse the Company for all amounts paid on its behalf.     

11   

ARTICLE FIVE    
    Administration         

5.1   
    Responsibilities and Powers of the Committee   - The Committee shall be solely responsible for the operation and administration of the Plan and shall have all powers
necessary and appropriate to carry out its responsibilities in operating and administering the Plan. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall have the responsibility and power to interpret the Plan, to make factual
determinations and to determine whether a credit should be made on behalf of a Participant, the amount of the credit and the value of the amount so credited on any subsequent date. The determination of the Committee, made in good faith, shall be
conclusive and binding on all persons, including Participants and their Beneficiaries. The Committee may delegate part or all of its authority to operate and administer the Plan to the Senior Vice President-Human Resources of the Company and may
grant authority to such person to execute agreements or other documents relating to the administration of the Plan as such person deems necessary or appropriate.     

5.2   
    Outside Services   - The Committee may engage counsel and such clerical, medical, financial, investment, accounting and other specialized services as its may deem
necessary or desirable to the operation and administration of the Plan. The Committee shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in any action or determination or omission taken or made or omitted in good faith in so relying, upon any
opinions, reports or other advice which is furnished by counsel or other specialist engaged for that purpose.         

5.3   
    Indemnification   - The Company shall indemnify the members of the Committee against any and all claims, loss, damages, expense (including reasonable counsel fees)
and liability arising from any action or failure to act or other conduct in the Committee member s official capacity, except when the same is due to her own gross negligence or willful misconduct.     

5.4   
    Claims Procedures   - The claims procedures set forth in Article XIII of the Thrift Plan shall apply to any claim for benefits hereunder, subject to such changes
as the Committee deems necessary or appropriate.     
         12   

ARTICLE SIX         Amendment
and Termination         

6.1   
    Amendment   - The Board of Directors reserves the right at any time and from time to time, and retroactively if deemed necessary or appropriate to conform with
governmental regulations or other policies, to modify or amend in whole or in part any or all of the provisions of the Plan. In addition, the Senior Vice President-Human Resources of the Company may make (a) all technical, administrative,
regulatory and compliance amendments to the Plan or (b) any other amendment to the Plan that will not significantly increase the cost of the Plan to the Company as she deems necessary or appropriate. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
above, no amendment shall operate to reduce the accrued benefit of any individual who is a Participant at the time the amendment is adopted.         

6.2   
    Termination   - The Plan is purely voluntary and the Board of Directors reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time, provided, however, that the termination
shall not operate to reduce the accrued benefit of any individual who is a Participant at the time the Plan is terminated.     
         13   

ARTICLE SEVEN         General
Provisions         

7.1   
    Source of Payments   - The Plan shall not be funded and all payments hereunder to Participants and their Beneficiaries shall be paid from the general assets of the
Company. The Company shall not, by virtue of any provisions of the Plan or by any action of any person hereunder, be deemed to be a trustee or other fiduciary of any property for any Participant or his Beneficiaries and the liabilities of the
Company to any Participant or his Beneficiaries pursuant to the Plan shall be those of a debtor only pursuant to such contractual obligations as are created by the Plan and no such obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any
pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the Company. To the extent that any Participant or his Beneficiaries acquire a right to receive a payment from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured
general creditor of the Company.         

7.2   
    No Warranties   - Neither the Committee nor the Company warrants or represents in any way that the value of each Participant s Account will increase or not
decrease. Such Participant assumes all risk in connection with any change in such value.         

7.3   
    Inalienability of Benefits   - No benefit payable under, or interest in, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer,
assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any attempt to do so shall be void; nor shall any such benefit or interest be in any manner liable for or subject to garnishment, attachment, execution or levy or liable for or subject to the debts,
contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any Participant or his Beneficiaries. In the event that the Committee shall find that any Participant or his Beneficiaries has become bankrupt or that any attempt has been made to anticipate, alienate,
sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any benefit payable under, or interest in, the Plan, the Committee shall hold or apply such benefit or interest or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such Participant or his Beneficiaries,
his spouse, children, parents or other relatives or any of them.         

7.4   
    Expenses   - The Company shall pay all costs and expenses incurred in operating and administering the Plan, including the expense of any counsel or other specialist
engaged by the Committee.         

7.5   
    No Right of Employment   - Nothing herein contained nor any action taken under the provisions hereof shall be construed as giving any Participant the right to be
retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliated Company.         

7.6   
    Limitations on Obligations   - Neither the Company, nor any Affiliated Company, nor any officer or employee of either, nor any member of the Board of Directors nor
the Committee shall be responsible or liable in any manner to any Participant, Beneficiary or any person claiming through them for any action taken or omitted in connection with the granting of benefits or the interpretation and administration of
the Plan.     
         14   

7.7   
    Withholding   - The Company shall, on its own behalf or on behalf of the Affiliated Companies, withhold from any payment hereunder the required amounts of income and
other taxes.         

7.8   
    Headings   - The headings of the Sections in the Plan are placed herein for convenience of reference and, in the case of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather
than such heading, shall control.         

7.9   
    Construction   - The Plan shall be construed, regulated and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the choice of law
principles thereof.         

7.10   
    Payments to Minors, Etc.   - Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting therefor shall be
deemed paid when paid to such person s guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person and such payment shall fully discharge the Committee, the Company, all Affiliated Companies and all other
parties with respect thereto.     
         15   

</EX-10.(D)>

<EX-10.(E)>
 6
 dex10e.htm
 UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION KEY EMPLOYEE CONTINUITY PLAN

Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan 

Exhibit 10(e)        
       
       UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION
       KEY EMPLOYEE CONTINUITY PLAN        
      Dated as of November 16, 2000   
  (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009 and as further amended February 3, 2011)   
  (The severance benefits provided under this Plan are subject to the terms and limitation of the Board of Director s Policy Regarding Shareholder Approval of
Future Severance Agreements, adopted on September 25, 2003)           

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   KEY EMPLOYEE CONTINUITY PLAN (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009)    
  The Company herebefore adopted, effective as of November 16, 2000, the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan for the benefit
of certain employees of the Company and its Affiliates (the  Plan ). The Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009, to reflect the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. All
capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 1 hereof. The Plan, as a  severance pay arrangement  within the meaning of Section 3(2)(B)(i) of ERISA, is intended to be excepted from the definitions of  employee
pension benefit plan  and  pension plan  set forth under Section 3(2) of ERISA, and is intended to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a  severance pay plan  within the meaning of regulations
published by the Secretary of Labor at Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations,   2510.3-2(b).       SECTION 1.   DEFINITIONS . As
hereinafter used:       SECTION 1.1    Affiliate   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12 of the Exchange
Act.       SECTION 1.2    Beneficial Owner   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.   
   SECTION 1.3    Board   means the Board of Directors of the Company.       SECTION 1.4    Cause   means (i) the willful and continued failure by the Eligible Employee to substantially perform the Eligible Employee s duties with the Employer (other than any
such failure resulting from the Eligible Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness), or (ii) the willful engaging by the Eligible Employee in conduct which is demonstrably injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise.
For purposes of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Eligible Employee s part shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Eligible Employee not in good faith or without reasonable belief that the
Eligible Employee s act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company.       SECTION 1.5  A   Change in Control  
shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:       (i)  any
Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20%
or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (A) of paragraph (iii) below; or
  
         2   

(ii)  the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of
directors then serving: individuals who, on November 16, 2000, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not
limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or   
   (iii)  there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other
corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or
consolidation or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not
including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or
      (iv)  the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is
consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity, more
than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which is owned by shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.   
   SECTION 1.6    Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time.   
   SECTION 1.7    Company   means Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation, or any successors thereto.   
   SECTION 1.8    Eligible Employee   means any employee who is a Tier 1, Tier 2 or Tier 3 Employee. An Eligible Employee becomes
a   Severed Employee   once he or she incurs a Severance.       SECTION 1.9    Employer   means the Company or any of its
Affiliates which is an employer of an Eligible Employee.   
         3   

SECTION 1.10    Equity Award   shall mean stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units
and other similar equity-based awards which are granted to an Eligible Employee by the Company (excluding, however, restricted stock unit awards made under the Company s 2006 Long Term Plan, 2007 Long Term Plan, 2008 Long Term Plan, or any
similar awards with performance criteria made under a long term incentive plan adopted by the Company subsequent to the date hereof).       SECTION 1.11
   Exchange Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.       SECTION 1.12    Excise
Tax   shall mean any excise tax imposed under section 4999 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.       SECTION 1.13
   Good Reason   means the occurrence, on or after the date of a Change in Control and without the affected Eligible Employee s written consent, of any of the following: (i) the assignment to the Eligible Employee of
duties that are materially inconsistent with the Eligible Employee s duties immediately prior to the Change in Control (other than pursuant to a transfer or promotion to a position of equal or enhanced responsibility or authority) or any
material diminution in the nature or scope of the Eligible Employee s responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (ii) a reduction by the Employer (or any member of the Parent Group) in the Eligible
Employee s annual base salary or annual incentive opportunity from that in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; provided, however, that such reduction results in a material diminution in the total package of compensation and
benefits provided to the Eligible Employee for performing services from that in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (iii) a material reduction by the Employer (or any member of the Parent Group) in the pension, thrift, medical or
long term disability benefits provided to the Eligible Employee from those provided to the Eligible Employee immediately prior to the Change in Control; provided, however, that such reduction results in a material diminution in the total package of
compensation and benefits provided to the Eligible Employee for performing services from that in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; or (iv) the failure by any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger,
consolidation or otherwise), to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, to expressly assume and agree to perform this Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if
no succession had taken place.      (a) The Eligible Employee must notify the Employer of the existence of the reason or condition that the
Eligible Employee believes would permit a separation from service for Good Reason within ninety (90) days of the initial existence of such reason or condition. The Employer (or member of the Parent Group, as applicable) shall, following receipt
of such notice, have a period of not less than thirty (30) days to cure the condition and not be required to pay the Severance Payment or provide any other payment or benefit described in Section 2 that is conditioned on the Eligible
Employee s Severance. The Employer may establish procedures with respect to the notice and cure provisions described above, consistent with Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(n), and may in appropriate circumstances waive part or all of the
above-described cure period.       SECTION 1.14    Gross-Up Payment   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5 hereof.
  
         4   

SECTION 1.15    Parent   shall mean the ultimate parent, if any, of the Company after a Change in
Control.       SECTION 1.16    Parent Group   shall mean, collectively, the Parent and its Affiliates.   
   SECTION 1.17    Person   shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and
14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its Affiliates, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) an
underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of
the Company.       SECTION 1.18    Plan   means the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan, as set forth herein, as it
may be amended from time to time.       SECTION 1.19    Plan Administrator   means the person or persons appointed from time to time by
the Board which appointment may be revoked at any time by the Board.       SECTION 1.20  A   Potential Change in Control   shall be
deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:      (a) the Company enters into
an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control;      (b) the Company or any Person publicly
announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute a Change in Control;      (c) any Person
becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing fifteen
(15%) or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or      (d) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that a Potential Change in Control has occurred.       SECTION 1.21
   Severance   means the separation from service (as such term is defined in section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of an Eligible Employee from the Employer on or within two years following the date
of the Change in Control, (i) by the Employer, other than for Cause or pursuant to mandatory retirement policies of the Employer that existed prior to the Change of Control, or (ii) by the Eligible Employee for Good Reason. An Eligible
Employee will not be considered to have incurred a Severance if his or her employment is (a) discontinued by reason of the Eligible Employee s death or a physical or mental condition causing such Eligible Employee s inability to
substantially perform his or her   
         5   

duties with the Employer, including, without limitation, such condition entitling him or her to benefits under any sick pay or disability income policy or program of the Employer or
(b) discontinued by reason of the divestiture of a facility, sale of a business or business unit, or the outsourcing of a business activity with which the Eligible Employee is affiliated, if the Eligible Employee is offered comparable
employment by the entity which acquires such facility, business or business unit or which succeeds to such outsourced business activity and such entity agrees to assume the obligations of the Employer to the Eligible Employee under this Plan.
      SECTION 1.22    Severance Date   means the date on or after the date of the Change in Control on which an Eligible Employee incurs
a Severance.       SECTION 1.23    Severance Payment   means the payment determined pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.   
   SECTION 1.24    Tier 1 Employee   means any employee of the Employer designated as such by a resolution of the Board.   
   SECTION 1.25    Tier 2 Employee   means any employee of the Employer designated as such by a resolution of the Board.   
   SECTION 1.26    Tier 3 Employee   means any employee of the Employer designated as such by a resolution of the Board.   
   SECTION 1.27    Total Payments   means any payments contemplated by and as defined in Section 2.5(a) hereof.   
   SECTION 2.   BENEFITS .       SECTION 2.1  (a) Each
Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance shall be entitled, subject to Section 2.9 hereof, to receive a Severance Payment equal to the product of (i) the sum of (A) such Eligible Employee s annual base salary as in effect
immediately prior to such Severance, plus (B) the average annual incentive compensation earned (or foregone at the election of the Eligible Employee) by such Eligible Employee in respect of the three (or fewer, as hereinafter described) annual
incentive compensation determinations (including determinations that no annual incentive compensation will be awarded) immediately preceding the Severance (or, if higher, in respect of the three (or fewer, as hereinafter described) annual incentive
compensation determinations immediately preceding the Change in Control) multiplied by (ii) in the case of a Tier 1 Employee, three (3), in the case of a Tier 2 Employee, two (2); and in the case of a Tier 3 Employee, one and one-half (1.5).
For purposes of clause (A) above, annual base salary shall be determined immediately prior to the Severance (without regard to any reductions therein which constitute Good Reason) and for purposes of clause (B) above, annual incentive
compensation determinations prior to 2000 (with respect to annual incentive compensation earned for plan years prior to 1999) shall be disregarded.   
         6   

(b) The Severance Payment shall be paid to a Severed Employee in a cash lump sum,
within twenty (20) business days immediately following the expiration of the revocation period, if any, applicable to such Severed Employee s release described in Section 2.9; but in no event later than March 15   th    of the year following the calendar year in which the Severance Date occurs.   
   SECTION 2.2  Each Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance and who is, at the time of such Severance, a participant in the Supplemental Pension Plan for
Officers and Managers of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates (the  UPC SERP ) shall, for purposes of the UPC SERP, (i) be deemed to have accumulated an additional thirty-six (36) months of age and service credit beyond the
Severance Date solely for purposes of determining the amount of any UPC SERP benefit (but in no event beyond age 65 and in no event shall aggregate service under the UPC SERP exceed forty (40) years), and (ii) be deemed to be fully vested
under such SERP.       SECTION 2.3  For a period of three years following a Severed Employee s Severance Date (or, if sooner, until such Severed
Employee attains the age of fifty-two (52), at which time the Severed Employee shall become entitled to receive benefits under the Company s retiree medical benefit plans if such Severed Employee s original hire date with (A) the
Company or (B) any Affiliate that on December 31, 2003 was a participating employer in the Flexible Benefits Program for Full-Time Salaried and Full-Time Hourly Employees of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, is before
January 1, 2004), the Company shall provide such Severed Employee and anyone entitled to claim under or through such Severed Employee all benefits under any medical or dental program to the same extent as if such Severed Employee had continued
to be an employee during such period; provided, however, (a) that such Severed Employee shall pay the fair market value for such coverage (active or retiree, as applicable), as determined under section 61 of the Code and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, and (b) the benefit amounts otherwise receivable by or in respect of a Severed Employee hereunder shall be reduced to the extent benefits of the same type are received by such Severed Employee from a subsequent employer
(and the Severed Employee shall report the receipt of such benefits to the Company). The coverage period for purposes of the group health continuation requirements of section 4980B of the Code shall commence on the Severance Date.   
   SECTION 2.4  (a) Subject to Section 2.9 hereof, in the event an Eligible Employee incurs a Severance, the Eligible Employee shall become fully vested in
all outstanding Equity Awards that are, at the Severance Date, unvested or subject to forfeiture restrictions. In the case of an Equity Award consisting of a stock option, such option shall continue to be exercisable for a period of three years from
the Severance Date (or such longer period as may be prescribed in the plan or agreement governing such option), but in no event later than the expiration date of such option. In the case of an Equity Award consisting of restricted stock, the Company
shall make payment of such restricted stock within five (5) business days following lapse of any revocation period for the release contemplated by Section 2.9.      (b) In the case of an Equity Award (or any part thereof) that is a Stock Unit (as defined in the Company s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the  Stock Plan )) granted to an Eligible Employee
who incurs a Severance under this Plan, such Stock Unit shall, subject to Section 2.9 and the final sentence of this paragraph (b) regarding deferrals, be paid within five (5) business days following lapse of any revocation period for
the release   
         7   

contemplated by Section 2.9. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that such a Severed Employee has attained Retirement Status (as defined below) prior to the Exempt Date (as defined
below), the Stock Unit shall not be paid until sixty (60) days after the Severance Date, subject to Section 2.9 and the final sentence of this paragraph (b) regarding deferrals.  Retirement Status  means, (i) for
Eligible Employees who were granted Stock Unit Equity Awards in 2006 and/or 2007 under the Stock Plan, an individual who, during the Restriction Period for such Equity Award, attained age 60 with eligibility for retirement under the provisions of
the Company s or a subsidiary s pension plan (or who had attained such age and eligibility at the time the Stock Unit Equity Award was granted), (ii) for Eligible Employees who were granted Stock Unit Equity Awards in 2005 or in any
year 2008-2010, an individual who, during the Restriction Period for such Equity Award, attained age 65 (or who had attained such age at the time the Stock Unit Equity Award was granted), (iii) for Eligible Employees who were granted a Stock
Unit Equity Award in 2011, an individual who was continually employed with the Company or a subsidiary until September 30, 2011 and during the Restriction Period for such Equity Award and while continually employed with the Company or a
subsidiary, attained age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a subsidiary s pension plan (or who had attained such age and service at the time the Stock Unit Equity Award was granted), and (iv) for
Eligible Employees who are granted a Stock Unit Equity Award in a year subsequent to 2011 under the Stock Plan or any successor thereto adopted by the Company,  Retirement Status  shall be defined in accordance with and to the extent such
term is defined under the Stock Plan or such other document evidencing such Stock Unit Equity Award.  Exempt Date  means January 1 of the calendar year in which the Restriction Period ends, or, in the case of a Restriction Period that
ends such that payment would be made by March 15 of the calendar year in which such Restriction Period ends, January 1 of the preceding year. If a Severed Employee has previously elected to defer receipt of a Stock Unit to a date beyond
the applicable payment date referenced herein, payment of such Stock Unit will be made on the later of (A) the deferred payment date selected by the Severed Employee (which, for this purpose, will be the first deferred payment date selected by
the Severed Employee in the event the Severed Employee elected to receive installment payments) and (B) the date established in this subparagraph (b).      (c) If a provision of an Eligible Employee s Stock Unit Agreement should conflict with the terms of this Plan, the terms of this Plan shall control and Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with
Section 2.4 hereof.      (d) The amount of any cash incentive bonus awarded under any Company long-term incentive plan or program shall
be calculated in accordance with the applicable plan document and paid, subject to Section 2.9, to an Eligible Employee who has a Severance within five (5) business days following the lapse of any revocation period for the release
contemplated by Section 2.9, or, in the event such cash incentive bonus is  deferred compensation  under Section 409A of the Code because the Eligible Employee elected to defer payment of such bonus in accordance with the terms
of a deferral program applicable to such bonus, at such other date as provided under the terms of the Eligible Employee s payment election made in accordance with such deferral program.       SECTION 2.5  (a) Whether or not the Eligible Employee becomes entitled to the Severance Payment, if any payment or benefit received or to be received by the Eligible Employee in connection with a Change in
Control or the Eligible   
         8   

Employee s separation from service (whether pursuant to the terms of this Plan or any other plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company, any Person whose actions result in a Change in
Control or any Person affiliated with the Company or such Person) (all such payments and benefits, including the Severance Payment, being hereinafter called  Total Payments ) will be subject (in whole or part) to the Excise Tax, then,
subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section 2.5, the Company shall pay to the Eligible Employee an additional amount (the  Gross-Up Payment ) such that the net amount retained by the Eligible Employee, after
deduction of any Excise Tax on the Total Payments and any federal, state and local income and employment taxes and Excise Tax upon the Gross-Up Payment, shall be equal to the Total Payments. For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up
Payment, the Eligible Employee shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation in the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made and state and local income taxes at the highest
marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of the Eligible Employee s residence on the Severance Date (or if there is no Severance Date, then the date on which the Gross-Up Payment is calculated for purposes of this Section 2.5),
net of the maximum reduction in federal income tax which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, no Eligible Employee who is initially designated as such on or after November 17,
2010 is eligible for a Gross-Up Payment under the Plan.      (b) In the event that the amount of the Total Payments exceeds 100% of, but
does not exceed 110% of, the largest amount that would result in no portion of the Total Payments being subject to the Excise Tax (the  Safe Harbor ), then subsection (a) of this Section 2.5 shall not apply and the Severance
Payments under Section 2.1 shall be reduced (if necessary, to zero) so that the amount of the Total Payments is equal to the Safe Harbor.      (c) For purposes of determining whether any of the Total Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax, (i) all of the Total Payments shall be treated as  parachute
payments  within the meaning of section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, unless in the opinion of tax counsel ( Tax Counsel ) reasonably acceptable to the Eligible Employee and selected by the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to
the Change in Control, the Company s independent auditor (the  Auditor ), such other payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, including by reason of section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code,
(ii) all  excess parachute payments  within the meaning of section 280G(b)(l) of the Code shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax unless, in the opinion of Tax Counsel, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part)
represent  reasonable compensation for services actually rendered , within the meaning of section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code, in excess of the  base amount  within meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code allocable to such
reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax, and (iii) the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Auditor in accordance with the principles of sections 280G(d)(3)
and (4) of the Code. Prior to the payment date set forth in Section 2.6 hereof, the Company shall provide the Eligible Employee with its calculation of the amounts referred to in this Section 2.5(c) and such supporting materials as
are reasonably necessary for the Eligible Employee to evaluate the Company s calculations. If the Eligible Employee disputes the Company s calculations (in whole or in part), the reasonable opinion of Tax Counsel with respect to the matter
in dispute shall prevail.   
         9   

(d) In the event that the Excise Tax is finally determined to be less than the amount taken into
account hereunder in calculating the Gross-Up Payment, and after giving effect to such redetermination, the Severance Payment under Section 2.1 are to be reduced pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 2.5, the Eligible Employee
shall repay to the Company, within five (5) business days following the time that the amount of such reduction in Excise Tax is finally determined, the portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to such reduction (plus that portion of the
Gross-Up Payment attributable to the Excise Tax and federal, state and local income and employment taxes imposed on the Gross-Up Payment being repaid by the Eligible Employee), to the extent that such repayment results in (i) no portion of the
Total Payments being subject to the Excise Tax and (ii) a dollar-for-dollar reduction in the Eligible Employee s taxable income and wages for purposes of federal, state and local income and employment taxes, plus interest on the amount of
such repayment at the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(b) of the Code. In the event that (x) the Excise Tax is finally determined to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder at the time of the Eligible Employee s separation from
service (including by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the time of the Gross-Up Payment) and (y) after giving effect to such redetermination, the Severance Payment under Section 2.1 should not
have been reduced pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 2.5, the Company shall make the previously reduced Severance Payment and shall make an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of such excess and in respect of any portion of the
Excise Tax with respect to which the Company had not previously made a Gross-Up Payment (plus any interest, penalties or additions payable by the Eligible Employee with respect to such excess and such portion) within five (5) business days
following the time that the amount of such excess is finally determined; provided, however, that such final determination shall be made such that any such additional Gross-Up Payment can be made by the end of the calendar year following the calendar
year in which the Employee pays the Excise Tax to which the Gross-Up Payment relates.       SECTION 2.6  The payments provided in subsection
(a) of Section 2.5 hereof shall be made not later than the fifth business day following the date of the event that triggers the Severed Employee s right to the benefit that generates the Excise Tax;  provided ,  however ,
that if the amounts of such payments, and the limitations on such payments set forth in Section 2.5 hereof, cannot be finally determined on or before such day, the Company shall pay to the Eligible Employee on such day an estimate of the
minimum amount of such payments to which the Eligible Employee is clearly entitled and shall pay the remainder of such payments (together with interest on the unpaid remainder (or on all such payments to the extent the Company fails to make such
payments when due) at the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) as soon as the amount thereof can be determined but in no event later than the thirtieth (30th) day after the date of the event that triggers the Severed
Employee s right to the benefit that generates the Excise Tax.       SECTION 2.7  The Company shall reimburse the Eligible Employee for all
reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the Eligible Employee in seeking to obtain or enforce any benefit or right provided by this Plan, so long as the Eligible Employee s claim is not frivolous. The Company shall reimburse the Eligible
Employee for all reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the Eligible Employee in connection with any tax audit or proceeding to the extent   
         10   

attributable to the application of section 4999 of the Code to any payment or benefit provided hereunder. Reimbursement of such fees and expenses shall be subject to the following restrictions:
(i) the amount of fees and expenses eligible for reimbursement during any calendar year shall not affect the fees and expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year; (ii) the reimbursement of an eligible fee or expense
shall be made as soon as practicable by the Company after the Eligible Employee submits the request for reimbursement including appropriate documentation, but not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which
the fee or expense was incurred and (iii) the Company s obligation to reimburse such fees and expenses is not subject to the liquidation or exchange for another benefit.       SECTION 2.8  In the event of a claim for benefits hereunder by an Eligible Employee, such Eligible Employee shall present the reason for his or her claim in writing to the Plan Administrator. The Plan
Administrator shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of such written claim, send a written notification to the Eligible Employee as to its disposition. In the event the claim is wholly or partially denied, such written notification shall
(a) state the specific reason or reasons for the denial, (b) make specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, (c) provide a description of any additional material or information necessary for the
Eligible Employee to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (d) set forth the procedure by which the Eligible Employee may appeal the denial of his or her claim. In the event an Eligible
Employee wishes to appeal the denial of his or her claim, he or she may request a review of such denial by making application in writing to the Plan Administrator within sixty (60) days after receipt of such denial. Such Eligible Employee (or
his or her duly authorized legal representative) may, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, review any documents pertinent to his or her claim, and submit in writing, issues and comments in support of his or her position. Within forty-five
(45) days after receipt of a written appeal (unless special circumstances, such as the need to hold a hearing, require an extension of time, but in no event more than one hundred twenty (120) days after such receipt), the Plan
Administrator shall notify the Eligible Employee of the final decision. The final decision shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and specific
references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based.       SECTION 2.9  No Severed Employee shall be eligible to receive a
Severance Payment or other benefits under the Plan that are subject to this Section 2.9 unless he or she first executes a written release substantially in the form attached hereto as Schedule A. Payments made under this Plan that are contingent
on the Severed Employee s execution of the release shall in all events be paid no later than two and one-half months following the end of the calendar year in which the Severance Date, or other triggering event for the payment, occurs; except
that with respect to any benefits under the Plan that are  deferred compensation  under section 409A of the Code, payment shall be made sixty (60) days after the Severance Date, unless the Severed Employee is a  specified
employee  (as determined in accordance with a uniform policy adopted by the Company with respect to all arrangements subject to section 409A of the Code maintained by the Company and its Affiliates), in which case such deferred compensation
shall be paid six months plus one day following such employee s  separation from service  as defined in the regulations promulgated under section 409A of the Code. In order to ensure compliance with the
  
         11   

foregoing, the Company shall provide the release described in this Section 2.9 to the Severed Employee in sufficient time so that the Severed Employee can consider the release for the full
consideration period required by applicable law, and have the ability to revoke such release during the revocation period(s) required by applicable law, before payment is made by the applicable deadline.   
   SECTION 2.10  An Employer shall be entitled to withhold from amounts to be paid to the Severed Employee hereunder any federal, state or local withholding or
other taxes or charges which it is from time to time required to withhold.       SECTION 3.   PLAN ADMINISTRATION .   
   SECTION 3.1  The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan and may interpret the Plan, prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations under the Plan
and make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, subject to all of the provisions of the Plan.       SECTION
3.2  The Plan Administrator may delegate any of its duties hereunder to such person or persons from time to time as it may designate.       SECTION 3.3
 The Plan Administrator is empowered, on behalf of the Plan, to engage accountants, legal counsel and such other personnel as it deems necessary or advisable to assist it in the performance of its duties under the Plan. The functions of any such
persons engaged by the Plan Administrator shall be limited to the specified services and duties for which they are engaged, and such persons shall have no other duties, obligations or responsibilities under the Plan. Such persons shall exercise no
discretionary authority or discretionary control respecting the management of the Plan. All reasonable expenses thereof shall be borne by the Employer.   
   SECTION 4.   PLAN MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION .      The Plan may be amended or terminated by the Board at any time;  provided ,  however , that, during the following periods, the Plan may not be terminated nor may the Plan be amended in any manner adverse
to the interests of any Eligible Employee (including, without limitation, any adverse changes to a person s status as an Eligible Employee) without such Eligible Employee s written consent (and any such termination or amendment shall be
void and of no force and effect): (i) within one year preceding a Potential Change in Control (in the case of any action (other than in connection with a separation from service) pursuant to which an individual ceases to be designated as an
Eligible Employee or is designated in a lower tier of Eligible Employee) or within 90 days preceding a Potential Change in Control (in the case of termination of the Plan or any other amendment which is adverse to the interests of any Eligible
Employee), (ii) during the pendency of or within 90 days following the cessation of a Potential Change in Control or (iii) within two years following a Change in Control. This Plan shall terminate automatically two years and one day after
a Change in Control. No Plan termination   
         12   

shall, without such Eligible Employee s written consent, adversely affect any rights of any Eligible Employee which accrued under this Plan prior to such termination.   
   SECTION 5.   GENERAL PROVISIONS .       SECTION 5.1
 Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, no right or interest of any Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be assignable or transferable, in whole or in part, either directly or by operation of law or otherwise, including without
limitation by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge or in any manner; no attempted assignment or transfer thereof shall be effective; and no right or interest of any Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be liable for, or subject to, any
obligation or liability of such Eligible Employee. When a payment is due under this Plan to a Severed Employee who is unable to care for his or her affairs, payment may be made directly to his or her legal guardian or personal representative.
      SECTION 5.2  If an Employer is obligated by law, contract, policy or otherwise to pay severance pay, a termination indemnity, notice pay, or the
like, or if an Employer is obligated by law to provide advance notice of separation ( Notice Period ), then any Severance Payment hereunder shall be reduced by the amount of any such severance pay, termination indemnity, notice pay or the
like, as applicable, and by the amount of any compensation received during any Notice Period.       SECTION 5.3  Neither the establishment of the Plan,
nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Eligible Employee, or any person whomsoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Employer, and
all Eligible Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.       SECTION 5.4  If any provision
of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.   
   SECTION 5.5  This Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties,
including each Eligible Employee, present and future, and any successor to the Employer. If a Severed Employee shall die while any amount would still be payable to such Severed Employee hereunder if the Severed Employee had continued to live, all
such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan to the executor, personal representative or administrators of the Severed Employee s estate.   
   SECTION 5.6  The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be
employed in the construction of the Plan.   
         13   

SECTION 5.7  The Plan shall not be funded. No Eligible Employee shall have any right to, or interest in, any
assets of any Employer which may be applied by the Employer to the payment of benefits or other rights under this Plan.       SECTION 5.8  Any notice
or other communication required or permitted pursuant to the terms hereof shall have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States mail, first class, postage prepaid, addressed to the intended recipient at his, her or its last known
address.       SECTION 5.9  This Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of Nebraska, to the extent not preempted by federal law,
which shall otherwise control.   
         14   

SCHEDULE A    
    WAIVER AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS AGREEMENT         YOU HAVE
BEEN ADVISED TO CONSULT AN ATTORNEY PRIOR TO SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT.        YOU HAVE [FORTY-FIVE] [TWENTY-ONE] DAYS AFTER RECEIVING THIS AGREEMENT TO
CONSIDER WHETHER TO SIGN IT.        AFTER SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, YOU HAVE ANOTHER SEVEN DAYS IN WHICH TO REVOKE IT, AND IT DOES NOT TAKE EFFECT UNTIL
THOSE SEVEN DAYS HAVE ENDED.       In consideration of, and subject to, the payments to be made to me by [Name of Employer Corporation]
( Union Pacific ) or any of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan (the  Plan ), which I acknowledge that I would not otherwise be entitled to receive, I hereby waive any claims I
may have for employment or re-employment by Union Pacific or any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific after the date hereof, and I further agree to and do release and forever discharge Union Pacific or any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific and
their respective past and present officers, directors, shareholders, employees and agents from any and all claims and causes of action, known or unknown, arising out of or relating to my employment with Union Pacific or any subsidiary or parent of
Union Pacific or the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, by reason of any event, matter, cause or thing which has occurred to the date of execution of this Release relating in any way to my employment relationship with Union Pacific
or to my termination of employment thereof, whether for severance or based on statutory or common law claims for employment discrimination, wrongful discharge, breach of contract or any other theory, whether legal or equitable, or arising under any
statute or regulation, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, and the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, each as amended, or any other federal, state or local law, regulation, ordinance or common law.      Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision hereof, nothing in this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement shall adversely affect (i) my rights under the Plan; (ii) my rights to benefits other
than severance benefits under plans, programs and arrangements of Union Pacific or any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific; or (iii) my rights to indemnification under any indemnification agreement, applicable law and the certificates of
incorporation and bylaws of Union Pacific and any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific, and my rights under any director s and officer s liability insurance policy covering me.   
  I acknowledge that I have signed this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement voluntarily, knowingly, of my own free will and without reservation or
duress, and that no   
         15   

promises or representations, written or oral, have been made to me by any person to induce me to do so other than the promise of payment set forth in the first paragraph above and Union
Pacific s acknowledgment of my rights reserved under the second paragraph above.      I understand that this release will be deemed to
be an application for benefits under the Plan, and that my entitlement thereto shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan, and I expressly hereby consent to such terms and conditions.   
  I acknowledge that I have been given not less than [forty-five (45)] [twenty-one (21)] days to review and consider this Waiver and Release of
Claims Agreement, and that I have had the opportunity to consult with an attorney or other advisor of my choice and have been advised by Union Pacific to do so if I choose. I may revoke this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement seven days or less
after its execution by providing written notice to Union Pacific.      Finally, I acknowledge that I have carefully read this Waiver and
Release of Claims Agreement and understand all of its terms. This is the entire Agreement between the parties and is legally binding and enforceable.      This Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement shall be governed and interpreted under federal law and the laws of Nebraska.      I knowingly and voluntarily sign this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement.       

Date Delivered to Employee:    

[Name of Employer Corporation]   

Date Signed by Employee:    

By:   

Title:   

Seven-Day Revocation Period Ends:    

Signed:    

Date:   

(Print Employee s Name)   

16   

</EX-10.(E)>

<EX-12>
 7
 dex12.htm
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12        RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF THE CORPORATION'S SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

List of the Corporation's significant subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21        SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES OF UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        

Name of Corporation   
      
  State of Incorporation  

Union Pacific Railroad Company   

Delaware  

Southern Pacific Rail Corporation   

Utah  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 dex23.htm
 INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM'S CONSENT

Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's Consent 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 33-12513, Registration Statement No. 33-53968, Registration Statement No. 33-49785, Registration Statement No. 33-49849, Registration Statement No. 33-51071, Registration
Statement No. 333-10797, Registration Statement No. 333-13115, Registration Statement No. 333-16563, Registration Statement No. 333-88225, Registration Statement No. 333-88709, Registration Statement No. 333-61856, Registration Statement No.
333-42768, Registration Statement No. 333-106707, Registration Statement No. 333-106708, Registration Statement No. 333-105714, Registration Statement No. 333-105715, Registration Statement No. 333-116003, Registration Statement No. 333-132324,
Registration Statement No. 333-155708, Registration Statement No. 333-170209, and Registration Statement No. 333-170208 on Forms S-8 and Registration Statement No. 333-88666, Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 333-88666, Registration
Statement No. 333-111185, Registration Statement No. 333-141084, and Registration Statement 333-164842 on Forms S-3 of our reports dated February 4, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Union
Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) and the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary
Companies for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

Omaha, Nebraska      February 4, 2011   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 10
 dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY EXECUTED BY THE DIRECTORS OF UPC

Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC 

Exhibit 24        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Powers of Attorney    
  Each of the undersigned directors of Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the Company), do hereby appoint each of James R. Young, Barbara
W. Schaefer, and James J. Theisen, Jr. his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, to sign on his or her behalf the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2010, and any and all amendments thereto,
and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this
Power of Attorney as of February 3, 2011.       

/s/ Andrew H. Card, Jr.   

/s/ Michael R. McCarthy   

Andrew H. Card, Jr.   

Michael R. McCarthy   

/s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.   

/s/ Michael W. McConnell   

Erroll B. Davis, Jr.   

Michael W. McConnell   

/s/ Thomas J. Donohue   

/s/ Thomas F. McLarty III   

Thomas J. Donohue   

Thomas F. McLarty III   

/s/ Archie W. Dunham   

/s/ Steven R. Rogel   

Archie W. Dunham   

Steven R. Rogel   

/s/ Judith Richards Hope   

/s/ Jose H. Villarreal   

Judith Richards Hope   

Jose H. Villarreal   

/s/ Charles C. Krulak   

Charles C. Krulak   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 11
 dex31a.htm
 SECTOIN 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Sectoin 302 Certification of CEO 

Exhibit 31(a)        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER       I, James R. Young, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 4, 2011        

/s/ James R. Young    
 
    James R. Young    
 
    Chairman, President and    
 
    Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 12
 dex31b.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Section 302 Certification of CFO 

Exhibit 31(b)        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER       I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., certify that:
     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 4, 2011        

/s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
 
    Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
 
    Executive Vice President   Finance and    
 
    Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32>
 13
 dex32.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO

Section 906 Certification of CEO and CFO 

Exhibit 32        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    
   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the Report), I, James R. Young, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the
best of my knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ James R. Young       James R. Young      Chairman, President and   
  Chief Executive Officer      Union
Pacific Corporation      February 4, 2011      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO    
   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending
December 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
  Robert M. Knight, Jr.      Executive Vice President - Finance and
     Chief Financial Officer      Union Pacific Corporation
     February 4, 2011      A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 unp-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 unp-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 unp-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 unp-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 unp-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 unp-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

