<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140207_10-K_edgar_data_100885_0001193125-14-040752_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>14602652</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>492073</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3967751</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3180784</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4476333</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2123109</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>110</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-14-040752.hdr.sgml : 20140207
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140207162146
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-14-040752
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		32
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140207
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140207

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNION PACIFIC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000100885
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING [4011]
		IRS NUMBER:				132626465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			UT
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06075
		FILM NUMBER:		14584596

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179
		BUSINESS PHONE:		402 544 5214

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-14-040752.txt : 20140207

10-K
 1
 d668613d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K    
   (Mark One)        

[X]  
    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013    
   OR       

[    ]  
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the transition period from                        to
                         
    Commission File Number 1-6075         UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

UTAH   

13-2626465    
 
  (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer     Identification No.)    
     1400 DOUGLAS STREET, OMAHA, NEBRASKA       (Address of principal executive offices)       68179    
  (Zip Code)       (402) 544-5000
      (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       

Title of each Class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock (Par Value $2.50 per share)   
      
   New York Stock Exchange, Inc.    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required
to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
 10-K.                

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      
  Large accelerated filer  
               Accelerated filer                  
Non-accelerated  filer                 Smaller
reporting company            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).      
           Yes            
         No            
     As of June 28, 2013, the aggregate market value of the registrant s Common Stock held by non-affiliates (using the New York
Stock Exchange closing price) was $71.3 billion.      The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock as of
January 31, 2014 was 455,057,609.           

Table of Contents  

    Documents Incorporated by Reference    Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 15, 2014, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. The registrant s Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A.         UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   TABLE OF CONTENTS        

CEO s Letter    

3  

Directors and Senior Management    

4  

PART I    

Item 1.   
     
     Business    

5  

Item 1A.   
     
     Risk Factors    

10  

Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

13  

Item 2.   
     
     Properties    

14  

Item 3.   
     
     Legal Proceedings    

17  

Item 4.   
     
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

18  

Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries    

19  

PART II    

Item 5.   
     
     Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

20  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    

22  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

23  

Critical Accounting Policies    

41  

Cautionary Information    

46  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

47  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

48  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

49  

Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

83  

Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and Procedures    

83  

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

84  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

85  

Item 9B.   
     
     Other Information    

86  

PART III    

Item 10.   
     
     Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance    

86  

Item 11.   
     
     Executive Compensation    

86  

Item 12.   
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

87  

Item 13.   
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence    

87  

Item 14.   
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

87  

PART IV    

Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

88  

Signatures    

89  

Certifications    

99  

2   

Table of Contents  

     February 7, 2014      Fellow Shareholders:      2013 was another tremendous year for Union Pacific, with our overall financial
performance exceeding all previous milestones. The year was a testament to the strength and diversity of our franchise and the dedication and commitment of our employees. We achieved record earnings of $9.42 per share, driven by a best-ever
operating ratio of 66.1 percent. As a result, our return on invested capital* of 14.7 percent also hit an all-time high, while free cash flow* exceeded the $2 billion mark. Shareholders were rewarded with increased financial returns, including a 19
percent increase in dividends declared per share compared to 2012 and $2.2 billion in share repurchases, up 50 percent from 2012. UP s stock price reached new highs in 2013, increasing 34 percent, and outpaced the S P 500 by 4 percentage
points.      Despite the challenges from a significantly weaker coal market and the carry-over impact of the 2012 drought on our grain
shipments, other markets within our diverse portfolio of business, including automotive, base chemicals, shale-related moves, construction-related shipments, and domestic intermodal traffic were positive. Operationally, we successfully managed the
shifts in business mix, improved network efficiency and fluidity, and operated a safe railroad.      Excellent service is the key to our
future success. It provides the value that attracts and retains our customers, supports our pricing initiatives, and improves resource utilization. It also demonstrates the power of our value proposition to new customers that are looking for viable
transportation alternatives. But, above all, it is our unrelenting focus on safety that serves as the foundation for everything we do. With our Total Safety Culture and The UP Way instilled throughout the Company, employee injuries hit a near-record
low in 2013. We re proud of the significant improvement we ve made, lowering our personal injury rate more than 45 percent over the past decade. As proud as we are of these results, the most important numbers are zero fatalities and zero
injuries, which is our ultimate goal.      Our capital investments play a critical role in meeting the long-term demand for freight
transportation in the U.S. In 2013, we invested $3.6 billion across our network. Over half was spent on replacing and hardening our infrastructure to further enhance safety and reliability. The balance was invested to increase customer value,
support business growth, and continue development of Positive Train Control (PTC), a federally mandated program. Although we achieved best-ever financial returns to support these investments, our returns must continue to improve to support higher
asset replacement costs and our safety, service, and growth initiatives.      In an evolving marketplace, our diverse franchise is
unparalleled in the industry today. Supporting six strong business groups, it remains an absolute core strength of Union Pacific. An increasing U.S. population base will stimulate long-term growth for many of the goods we carry. To meet this growing
demand, we anticipate continued opportunities to convert freight from the highway, supported by our integrated network, competitive service offerings, and environmental advantages. Global population growth will also stimulate world food demand.
Union Pacific plays a vital role in the supply chains for domestic and export grain, supporting our country s position as the top global corn producer.      With a resurging chemical industry fueled by low natural gas prices and continued strength in the construction and housing markets, Union Pacific s manifest network is well positioned to meet the growing
demand for various chemical and industrial products. In addition, UP is the only railroad that serves all six major gateways to Mexico. We are in an excellent position to benefit from economic growth in that country. Union Pacific currently touches
more than two-thirds of the goods moving cross-border by rail and is uniquely poised to accommodate forecasted growth in Mexico automotive production and manufacturing activity.   
  We will build on these strengths and opportunities for profitable growth in the future, while continuing our unrelenting focus on both safety and
service for our customers. We strongly believe in the power and potential of the Union Pacific franchise to drive even greater performance on all fronts and increase shareholder returns in the years to come.   

President   Chief Executive Officer   

3  
     
  *See Item 7 of this report for reconciliations to U.S. GAAP.    

Table of Contents  

      DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT    

BOARD OF DIRECTORS     

Andrew H. Card, Jr.      Executive Director of
the     Office of the Provost and     Vice President of
Academic     Affairs,     Texas A M University  
   Board Committees: Audit, Finance           Erroll B. Davis, Jr.      Superintendent     Atlanta Public Schools      Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits (Chair), Corporate       Governance and Nominating   
       Thomas J. Donohue      President and     Chief Executive Officer     U.S. Chamber of Commerce      Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate Governance       and Nominating   
       Archie W. Dunham      Retired Chairman     ConocoPhillips      Board Committees: Corporate       Governance and Nominating,   
   Finance    
      
     Judith Richards Hope      Emerita Professor of
Law and     Distinguished Visitor from Practice     Georgetown
University Law Center      Board Committees: Corporate   
   Governance and Nominating, Finance       
   John J. Koraleski      President and  
  Chief Executive Officer     Union Pacific Corporation and  
  Chief Executive Officer     Union Pacific Railroad Company  
       Charles C. Krulak      General, USMC, Ret.     President     Birmingham   Southern College      Board Committees: Audit, Finance   
       Michael R. McCarthy      Chairman     McCarthy Group, LLC      Board Committees: Audit,       Finance (Chair)   
       Michael W. McConnell      General Partner and     Former Managing Partner     Brown Brothers Harriman   Co.      Board Committees: Audit (Chair),   
   Finance    
      
     Thomas F. McLarty III      President  
  McLarty Associates      Board Committees: Compensation and Benefits,
Corporate Governance and Nominating           Steven R. Rogel   
  Retired Chairman     Weyerhaeuser Company  
   Lead Independent Director       Board Committees:
Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate Governance   
   and Nominating (Chair)           Jose H. Villarreal      Advisor     Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer       Feld, LLP      Board Committees: Audit, Compensation and Benefits           James R. Young      Chairman     Union Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad Company    

SENIOR MANAGEMENT     

John J. Koraleski      President and  
  Chief Executive Officer     Union Pacific Corporation and  
  Chief Executive Officer     Union Pacific Railroad Company  
       Lance M. Fritz      President and     Chief Operating Officer     Union Pacific Railroad Company          Eric L.
Butler      Executive Vice President      Marketing and
Sales     Union Pacific Railroad Company      
   Diane K. Duren      Executive Vice President and  
  Corporate Secretary     Union Pacific Corporation  
       Mary Sanders Jones      Vice President and Treasurer     Union Pacific Corporation   
      
     D. Lynn Kelley      Vice President Supply
and     Continuous Improvement     Union Pacific Railroad
Company          Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
  Executive Vice President Finance     and Chief Financial
Officer     Union Pacific Corporation      
   Joseph E. O Connor, Jr.      Vice President Labor
Relations     Union Pacific Railroad Company      
   Patrick J. O Malley      Vice President Taxes and
General Tax Counsel     Union Pacific Corporation      
   Michael A. Rock      Vice President External
Relations     Union Pacific Corporation   
      
     Cameron A. Scott      Executive Vice
President      Operations     Union Pacific Railroad
Company          Lynden L. Tennison   
  Senior Vice President and     Chief Information Officer  
  Union Pacific Corporation          Gayla L. Thal      Senior Vice President Law     and General Counsel     Union Pacific Corporation  
       Jeffrey P. Totusek      Vice President and Controller     Union Pacific Corporation  
       Robert W. Turner      Senior Vice President      Corporate Relations     Union Pacific Corporation    
 
         4   

Table of Contents  

     PART I           Item 1.  Business         GENERAL    
  Union Pacific Railroad is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation. One of America s most recognized companies, Union
Pacific Railroad links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail, providing a critical link in the global supply chain. The Railroad s diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Coal,
Industrial Products and Intermodal. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers, operates from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada s rail systems and is the only
railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways. Union Pacific provides value to its roughly 10,000 customers by delivering products in a safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible manner.   
  Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.
The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP .   
  For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to  UPC ,  Corporation ,
 Company ,  we ,  us , and  our  shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as  UPRR  or the
 Railroad .       Available Information    Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our
website (under the  Investors  caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4,
and 5, filed on behalf of our directors and certain executive officers; and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We provide these reports and statements as soon
as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website previously filed SEC reports and exhibits via a link to EDGAR on the
SEC s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Additionally, our corporate governance materials, including By-Laws, Board Committee charters, governance guidelines and policies, and codes of conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees are
available on our website. From time to time, the corporate governance materials on our website may be updated as necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the NYSE or as desirable to promote the effective and efficient governance of our
company. Any security holder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials should send a written request to: Secretary, Union Pacific Corporation, 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.
     We have included the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certifications regarding our public disclosure
required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31(a) and (b) to this report.      References to our website
address in this report, including references in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation
by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.       OPERATIONS       The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one
reportable operating segment. Although we provide revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. Additional information regarding our business and
operations, including revenue and financial information and data and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item  Selected Financial Data, Item 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item  and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8 (which include information regarding revenues, statements of income, and total
assets).   
         5   

Table of Contents  

Operations    UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 31,838 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and
eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific
Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. Our freight traffic consists  
of   bulk,   manifest,   and   premium   
      
     2013 Freight Revenue       

business. Bulk traffic primarily consists of coal, grain, soda ash, rock and crude oil shipped in unit trains   trains transporting a single commodity
from one source to one destination. Manifest traffic includes individual carload or less than train-load business involving commodities such as lumber, steel, paper, food and chemicals. The transportation of finished vehicles, auto parts, intermodal
containers and truck trailers are included as part of our premium business. In 2013, we generated freight revenues totaling $20.7 billion from the following six commodity groups:    
     Agricultural    Transportation of grains, commodities produced from these grains, and food and beverage
products generated 16% of the Railroad s 2013 freight revenue. The Company accesses most major grain markets, linking the Midwest and western U.S. producing areas to export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and Gulf Coast ports, as well as
Mexico. We also serve significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders and ethanol producers in the Midwest, West, South and Rocky Mountain states. Unit trains, which transport a single commodity between producers and export
terminals or domestic markets, represent approximately 36% of our agricultural shipments.       Automotive    We are the largest
automotive carrier west of the Mississippi River and operate or access over 40 vehicle distribution centers. The Railroad s extensive franchise serves vehicle assembly plants and connects to West Coast ports and the Gulf of Mexico to
accommodate both import and export shipments. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, UP provides expedited handling of automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers destined for Mexico, the U.S. and Canada. The automotive group
generated 10% of Union Pacific s freight revenue in 2013.       Chemicals    Transporting chemicals generated 17% of our
freight revenue in 2013. The Railroad s unique franchise serves the chemical producing areas along the Gulf Coast, where roughly two-thirds of the Company s chemical business originates, terminates or travels. Our chemical franchise also
accesses chemical producers in the Rocky Mountains and on the West Coast. The Company s chemical shipments include four broad categories: Petrochemicals, Fertilizer, Soda Ash, and Other. Petrochemicals include industrial chemicals, plastics and
petroleum products, including crude oil and liquid petroleum gases. Currently, these products move primarily to and from the Gulf Coast region. Fertilizer movements originate in the Gulf Coast region, the western U.S. and Canada (through interline
access) for delivery to major agricultural users in the Midwest, western U.S., as well as abroad. Soda ash originates in southwestern Wyoming and California, destined for chemical and glass producing markets in North America and abroad. Other
shipments include sodium products, phosphorus rock and sulfur.       Coal    Shipments of coal and petroleum coke accounted for
19% of our freight revenue in 2013. The Railroad s network supports the transportation of coal and petroleum coke to independent and regulated power companies and industrial facilities throughout the U.S. Through interchange gateways and ports,
UP s reach extends to eastern U.S. utilities, Mexico, Europe and Asia. Water terminals allow the Railroad to move western U.S. coal east via the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, as well as the Great Lakes. Export coal moves through West Coast ports
to Asia and through the Mississippi River and Houston to Europe. Coal traffic originating in the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) area of Wyoming is the largest segment of UP s coal business.   
   Industrial Products    Our extensive network facilitates the movement of numerous commodities between thousands of origin and
destination points throughout North America. The Industrial Products group consists of several categories, including construction products, minerals, consumer goods, metals,   
         6   

Table of Contents  

lumber, paper, and other miscellaneous products. In 2013, this group generated 18% of Union Pacific s total freight revenue. Commercial, residential and governmental infrastructure
investments drive shipments of steel, aggregates (cement components), cement and wood products. Oil and gas drilling generates demand for raw steel, finished pipe, frac sand, stone and drilling fluid commodities. Industrial and light manufacturing
plants receive steel, nonferrous materials, minerals and other raw materials. Paper and packaging commodities, as well as appliances, move to major metropolitan areas for consumers. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the Pacific Northwest and
western Canada and move throughout the U.S. for use in new home construction and repair and remodeling.       Intermodal    Our
Intermodal business includes two segments: international and domestic. International business consists of import and export container traffic that mainly passes through West Coast ports served by UP s extensive terminal network. Domestic
business includes container and trailer traffic picked up and delivered within North America for intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and logistics companies), as well as truckload carriers. Less-than-truckload and package
carriers with time-sensitive business requirements are also an important part of domestic shipments. Together, international and domestic business generated 20% of UP s 2013 freight revenue.   
   Seasonality    Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity, such
as certain agricultural and food products that have specific growing and harvesting seasons, and the demand cycle for the commodity, such as intermodal traffic, which generally has a peak shipping season during the third quarter to meet
holiday-related demand for consumer goods during the fourth quarter. The peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably from year to year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international
economies and currencies and the strength of harvests and market prices for agricultural products. In response to an annual request delivered by the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to all of the
Class I railroads operating in the U.S., we issue a publicly available letter during the third quarter detailing our plans for handling traffic during the third and fourth quarters and providing other information requested by the STB.   
   Working Capital    At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had a modest working capital surplus, which provides enhanced liquidity. In
addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.   
   Competition    We are subject to competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ship and barge operators, and pipelines. Our main
railroad competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC. Its primary subsidiary, BNSF Railway Company (BNSF), operates parallel routes in many of our main traffic corridors. In addition, we operate in corridors served by other railroads and motor
carriers. Motor carrier competition exists for five of our six commodity groups (excluding most coal shipments). Because of the proximity of our routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways, barges can be particularly competitive, especially for
grain and bulk commodities in certain areas where we operate. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times, quality and reliability of service from motor carriers and other railroads. Motor carriers in
particular can have an advantage over railroads with respect to transit times and timeliness of service. However, railroads are much more fuel efficient than trucks, which reduces the impact of transporting goods on the environment and public
infrastructure, and railroads operating in the U.S., including us, have been making efforts to convert certain traffic from motor carriers to railroad service. Additionally, we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system; trucks and barges
are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any of the following could also affect the competitiveness of our transportation services for some or all of our commodities: (i) improvements or expenditures materially
increasing the quality or reducing the costs of these alternative modes of transportation, (ii) legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the size or weight limitations applied to motor carriers, or (iii) legislation or
regulatory changes that impose operating restrictions on railroads or that adversely affect the profitability of some or all railroad traffic. For more information regarding risks we face from competition, see the Risk Factors in Item 1A of
this report.       Key Suppliers    We depend on two key domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives. Due to the capital
intensive nature of the locomotive manufacturing business and sophistication of this equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers of entry into this industry. Therefore, if one of these domestic suppliers discontinues manufacturing
locomotives for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience a significant cost increase and risk reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary to our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail
purchases, we utilize two steel   
         7   

Table of Contents  

producers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical for both maintenance of our network and replacement and improvement or expansion of our network and
facilities. Rail manufacturing also has high barriers of entry, and, if one of those suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience cost increases and difficulty obtaining rail.   
   Employees    Approximately 86% of our 46,445 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. In 2012, we
concluded the most recent round of negotiations, which began in 2010, with the ratification of new agreements by several unions. All of the unions executed similar multi-year agreements that provide for higher employee cost sharing of employee
health and welfare benefits and higher wages. The current agreements will remain in effect until renegotiated under provisions of the Railway Labor Act. The next round of negotiations will begin in early 2015.   
   Railroad Security    Our security efforts rely upon a wide variety of measures including employee training, cooperation with our
customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies. While federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and
other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives.       UPRR Security Measures   
We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and to respond to any potential or actual threats as they arise. The plan includes four levels of alert status, each with its own set of countermeasures. We employ our own police
force, consisting of more than 200 commissioned and highly-trained officers. Our employees also undergo recurrent security and preparedness training, as well as federally-mandated hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the
sufficiency of our employee training programs. We maintain the capability to move critical operations to back-up facilities in different locations.      We have an emergency response management center, which operates 24 hours a day. The center receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from
our employees, the public, and law enforcement and other government officials. In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public events, and, as necessary, we may alter rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize
risk to communities and our operations. We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law. We also design our operating plan to expedite the movement of hazardous material shipments to minimize the
time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers. Additionally, in compliance with Transportation Security Agency regulations, we deployed information systems and instructed employees in tracking and
documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Material with customers and interchange partners.      We also have established a number
of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in technology to The Officer on the Train program, which provides local law enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance
their understanding of railroad operations and risks. Our staff of information security professionals continually assesses cyber security risks and implements mitigation programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment. To date,
we have not experienced any material disruption of our operations due to a cyber threat or attack directed at us.       Cooperation with
Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies    We work closely on physical and cyber security initiatives with government agencies that include the DOT and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as well as local police departments, fire
departments, and other first responders. In conjunction with DOT, DHS, and other railroads, we sponsor Operation Respond, which provides first responders with secure links to electronic railroad resources, including mapping systems, shipment
records, and other essential information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations. We also participate in the National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of
Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism.      We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (CBP), and the Military Transport Management Command, which monitor shipments entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports. We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP s
Customs-  
         8   

Table of Contents  

Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to develop, enhance, and maintain effective security processes throughout the global supply chain.   
   Cooperation with Customers and Trade Associations    Along with other railroads, we work with the American Chemistry Council to train
approximately 200,000 emergency responders annually. We work with many of our chemical shippers to establish plant security plans, and we continue to take steps to more closely monitor and track hazardous materials shipments. In cooperation with the
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and other interested groups, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will further limit the risk of releases of hazardous materials.   
   GOVERNMENTAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION    
   Governmental Regulation    Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulations, generally applicable to all
businesses. (See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings in Legal Proceedings, Item 3.)      The operations of the
Railroad are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the STB. The STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic; common carrier service of regulated traffic; freight car compensation; transfer, extension, or
abandonment of rail lines; and acquisition of control of rail common carriers. In 2013, the STB continued its efforts to explore whether to expand rail regulation. The STB has requested parties to submit studies that describe and quantify the
potential impact of expanded reciprocal switching or trackage rights arrangements on railroads. For the past several legislative sessions, proposed bills have been introduced in Congress that aim to alter the regulatory structure of the railroad
industry. We will continue to monitor any legislative activity involving rail and transportation regulation and respond accordingly.   
  The operations of the Railroad also are subject to the regulations of the FRA and other federal and state agencies. On January 12, 2010, the
FRA issued initial rules governing installation of Positive Train Control (PTC) by the end of 2015. The final regulation is still forthcoming. Although still under development, PTC is a collision avoidance technology intended to override engineer
controlled locomotives and stop a train before an accident. Following the issuance of the initial rules, the FRA acknowledged that projected costs will exceed projected benefits by a ratio of at least 22 to one, and we estimate that our costs will
be higher than those assumed by the FRA. In August 2012, the FRA provided Congress with a status report regarding implementation of PTC. This report indicated that the rail industry will likely achieve only partial deployment of PTC by the current
deadline due to significant technical and other issues. Through 2013, we have invested over $1.2 billion in the development of PTC.   
  DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and DHS, along with other federal
agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of safety, movement of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, emissions requirements, and equipment standards. The Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, among other things, revised hours of service
rules for train and certain other railroad employees, mandated implementation of PTC, imposed passenger service requirements, addressed safety at rail crossings, increased the number of safety related employees of the FRA, and increased fines that
may be levied against railroads for safety violations. Additionally, various state and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste and seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in ways not preempted by federal law.
      Environmental Regulation    We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental statutes and regulations pertaining
to public health and the environment. The statutes and regulations are administered and monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and by various state environmental agencies. The primary laws affecting our operations are the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, regulating the management and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, regulating the cleanup of contaminated properties; the Clean Air Act,
regulating air emissions; and the Clean Water Act, regulating waste water discharges.      Information concerning environmental claims and
contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7 and Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A.  Risk Factors     
  The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this report, including
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8.       We Must Manage Fluctuating Demand for Our Services and Network Capacity    If there is significant demand for our services that exceeds the designed capacity of our network, we may experience network
difficulties, including congestion and reduced velocity, that could compromise the level of service we provide to our customers. This level of demand may also compound the impact of weather and weather-related events on our operations and velocity.
Although we continue to improve our transportation plan, add capacity, improve operations at our yards and other facilities, and improve our ability to address surges in demand for any reason with adequate resources, we cannot be sure that these
measures will fully or adequately address any service shortcomings resulting from demand exceeding our planned capacity. We may experience other operational or service difficulties related to network capacity, dramatic and unplanned increases or
decreases of demand for rail service with respect to one or more of our commodity groups or operating regions, or other events that could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In the event that we experience significant reductions of demand for rail services with respect to one or more of our commodity groups, we may experience increased costs associated with
resizing our operations, including higher unit operating costs and costs for the storage of locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment; work-force adjustments; and other related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Transport Hazardous Materials    We transport certain hazardous
materials and other materials, including crude oil and toxic inhalation hazard (TIH) materials, such as chlorine, that pose certain risks in the event of a release or combustion. Additionally, U.S. laws impose common carrier obligations on railroads
that require us to transport certain hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. A rail accident or other incident or accident on our network, at our facilities, or at the facilities of our customers involving the release
or combustion of hazardous materials could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of our insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Are Subject to Significant Governmental
Regulation    We are subject to governmental regulation by a significant number of federal, state, and local authorities covering a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, economic (as discussed below), and other matters. Many laws
and regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits, and other authorizations, and we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a
material adverse effect on us. Governments or regulators may change the legislative or regulatory frameworks within which we operate without providing us any recourse to address any adverse effects on our business, including, without limitation,
regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution, business relationships with other railroads, calculation of our cost of capital or other inputs relevant to computing our revenue adequacy, the prices we charge, and costs and
expenses. Significant legislative activity in Congress or regulatory activity by the STB could expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network, facilities and equipment
and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. As part of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, rail carriers must currently implement PTC by the end of 2015, which could have a material
adverse effect on our ability to make other capital investments. Rail carriers likely will not meet the current mandatory deadline for PTC implementation due to various factors. Additionally, one or more consolidations of Class I railroads could
also lead to increased regulation of the rail industry.       We May Be Affected by General Economic Conditions    Prolonged
severe adverse domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of financial and credit markets may affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry and may have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity and our
results of operations and financial condition.       We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers 
  We face competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ships, barges, and pipelines. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. While we must build or
  
         10   

Table of Contents  

acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks, barges and maritime operators are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future improvements or expenditures materially
increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation, or legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the burden of the size or weight limitations currently applicable to motor carriers, could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, any future consolidation of the rail industry could materially affect the competitive environment in which we operate.   
   Severe Weather Could Result in Significant Business Interruptions and Expenditures    As a railroad with a vast network, we are exposed
to severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, mudslides or landslides, extreme temperatures, and significant precipitation that may cause business interruptions, including line outages on
our rail network, that can adversely affect our entire rail network and result in increased costs, increased liabilities, and decreased revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity.       We Rely on Technology and Technology Improvements in Our Business Operations    We rely on information technology
in all aspects of our business. If we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or if we are unable to develop or implement new technology such as PTC or the latest version of our transportation control systems, we may suffer a
competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, if a
cyber attack or other event causes significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could suffer a significant service interruption,
safety failure, security breach, or other operational difficulties, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   We May Be Subject to Various Claims and Lawsuits That Could Result in Significant Expenditures    As a railroad with operations in
densely populated urban areas and other cities and a vast rail network, we are exposed to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability, and other matters.
Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability that exceed our insurance coverage for such risks could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Are Subject to Significant
Environmental Laws and Regulations    Due to the nature of the railroad business, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air;
discharges to waters; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and hazardous material or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous and non-hazardous waste in our operations, and we did so in our
former operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties, and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties we currently own. Environmental liabilities have arisen and may also
arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. We have been and may be subject to allegations or findings that we have violated, or are strictly liable under, these laws or regulations. We
currently have certain obligations at existing sites for investigation, remediation and monitoring, and we likely will have obligations at other sites in the future. Liabilities for these obligations affect our estimate based on our experience and,
as necessary, the advice and assistance of our consultants. However, actual costs may vary from our estimates due to any or all of several factors, including changes to environmental laws or interpretations of such laws, technological changes
affecting investigations and remediation, the participation and financial viability of other parties responsible for any such liability and the corrective action or change to correction actions required to remediate any existing or future sites. We
could incur significant costs as a result of any of the foregoing, and we may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown, or future environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or Regulatory
Responses to Climate Change    Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on
emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry
  
         11   

Table of Contents  

to produce energy, (b) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of
energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to
alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government
incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for
example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our
operations on climate change. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle and have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations as
the Majority of Our Employees Belong to Labor Unions and Labor Agreements    The U.S. Class I railroads are party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our
potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of our operations and have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise our service reliability or
significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   The Availability of Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations    Changes in demographics, training requirements, and the
availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to meet demand for rail service. Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services and a lack of network fluidity may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact
on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       Rising or Elevated Fuel Costs and Our Ability to Mitigate These Costs with Fuel Surcharges    Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our transportation expenses. Diesel fuel prices can be subject
to dramatic fluctuations, and significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although we currently are able to recover a significant amount of our fuel expenses from our customers through revenue from fuel
surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will always be able to mitigate rising or elevated fuel costs through our fuel surcharges. Additionally future market conditions or legislative or regulatory activities could adversely affect our ability to
apply fuel surcharges or adequately recover increased fuel costs through fuel surcharges. International, political, and economic factors, events and conditions affect fuel prices and supplies. Weather can also affect fuel supplies and limit domestic
refining capacity. A severe shortage of, or disruption to, domestic fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   We Utilize Capital Markets    Due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient
railroad, we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements. We utilize long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper from time-to-time, and we pledge certain of our receivables. Significant instability or
disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or prohibit our access to, and significantly increase the cost of, commercial paper and
other financing sources, including bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt, including corporate bonds. A significant deterioration of our financial condition could result in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment
grade, which could restrict, or at certain credit levels below investment grade may prohibit us, from utilizing our current receivables securitization facility. This may also limit our access to external sources of capital and significantly increase
the costs of short and long-term debt financing.       A Significant Portion of Our Revenue Involves Transportation of Commodities to and
from International Markets    Although revenues from our operations are attributable to transportation services provided in the United States, a significant portion of our revenues involves the transportation of commodities to and
  
         12   

Table of Contents  

from international markets, including Mexico and Southeast Asia, by various carriers and, at times, various modes of transportation. Significant and sustained interruptions of trade with Mexico
or countries in Southeast Asia, including China, could adversely affect customers and other entities that, directly or indirectly, purchase or rely on rail transportation services in the U.S. as part of their operations, and any such interruptions
could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Any one or more of the following could cause a significant and sustained interruption of trade with Mexico or countries in Southeast Asia: a
deterioration of security for international trade and businesses; the adverse impact of new laws, rules and regulations or the interpretation of laws, rules and regulations by government entities, courts or regulatory bodies, including taxing
authorities, that affect our customers doing business in foreign countries; any significant adverse economic developments, such as extended periods of high inflation, material disruptions in the banking sector or in the capital markets of these
foreign countries, and significant changes in the valuation of the currencies of these foreign countries that could materially affect the cost or value of imports or exports; shifts in patterns of international trade that adversely affect import and
export markets; and a material reduction in foreign direct investment in these countries.       We Are Subject to Legislative, Regulatory,
and Legal Developments Involving Taxes    Taxes are a significant part of our expenses. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates,
enactment of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and liquidity.       We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail    Due to the capital intensive
nature and sophistication of locomotive equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry. Therefore, if one of the domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including
bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience significant cost increases and reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary for our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two steel producers
(one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical to our operations for rail replacement programs, maintenance, and for adding additional network capacity, new rail and storage yards, and expansions of existing
facilities. This industry similarly has high barriers to entry, and if one of these suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience both significant cost increases for rail purchases and
difficulty obtaining sufficient rail for maintenance and other projects.       We May Be Affected by Acts of Terrorism, War, or Risk of
War    Our rail lines, facilities, and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Terrorist attacks, or other similar events, any government response
thereto, and war or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of our current coverages could increase dramatically, or certain coverages may not be
available to us in the future.         Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments     
  None.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

      Item 2.  Properties     
  We employ a variety of assets in the management and operation of our rail business. Our rail network covers 23 states in the western two-thirds of
the U.S.         

TRACK    
  Our rail network includes 31,838 route miles. We own 26,009 miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. The following
table describes track miles at December 31, 2013 and 2012.       
     HEADQUARTERS BUILDING       We maintain our headquarters in Omaha, Nebraska. The facility has 1.2 million square feet of space for approximately 4,000 employees and is subject to a financing arrangement.   
   HARRIMAN DISPATCHING CENTER       The Harriman
Dispatching Center (HDC), located in Omaha, Nebraska, is our primary dispatching facility. It is linked to regional dispatching and locomotive management facilities at various locations along our
  
         14   

Table of Contents  

network. HDC employees coordinate moves of locomotives and trains, manage traffic and train crews on our network, and coordinate interchanges with other railroads. Approximately 850 employees
currently work on-site in the facility. In the event of a disruption of operations at HDC due to a cyber attack, flooding or severe weather or other event, we maintain the capability to conduct critical operations at back-up facilities in different
locations.       RAIL FACILITIES       In
addition to our track structure, we operate numerous facilities, including terminals for intermodal and other freight; rail yards for train-building (classification yards), switching, storage-in-transit (the temporary storage of customer goods in
rail cars prior to shipment) and other activities; offices to administer and manage our operations; dispatching centers to direct traffic on our rail network; crew quarters to house train crews along our network; and shops and other facilities for
fueling, maintenance, and repair of locomotives and repair and maintenance of rail cars and other equipment. The following tables include the major yards and terminals on our system:   

RAIL EQUIPMENT       Our equipment includes owned and leased locomotives and rail cars; heavy maintenance equipment and machinery; other equipment and tools in our shops, offices, and facilities; and vehicles for maintenance,
transportation of crews, and other activities. As of December 31, 2013, we owned or leased the following units of equipment:       
 
         15   

Table of Contents  

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES       Our rail network requires significant annual capital investments for replacement, improvement, and expansion. These investments enhance safety, support the transportation needs of our customers, and improve our
operational efficiency. Additionally, we add new locomotives and freight cars to our fleet to replace older, less efficient equipment, to support growth and customer demand, and to reduce our impact on the environment through the acquisition of more
fuel efficient and low-emission locomotives.       2013 Capital Expenditures    During 2013, we made cash and non-cash capital
investments totaling $3.6 billion. (See the cash capital expenditures table in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financial Condition,
Item 7.)       2014 Capital Expenditures    In 2014, we expect to make capital investments of approximately $3.9 billion,
which will include expenditures for PTC of approximately $450 million and may include non-cash investments. We may revise our 2014 capital plan if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient
returns on these investments. (See discussion of our 2014 capital plan in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   2014 Outlook, Item 7.)   
   OTHER        Equipment Encumbrances   
Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $2.9 billion at both December 31, 2013, and 2012 served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to
acquire or refinance such railroad equipment.      As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR
on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger
date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of
the outstanding balance of such bonds.       Environmental Matters    Certain of our properties are subject to federal, state, and
local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. (See discussion of environmental issues in Business   Governmental and Environmental Regulation, Item 1, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.)   
         16   

Table of Contents  

      Item 3.  Legal Proceedings     
  From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and litigation that occur in connection with our business. We routinely assess our
liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest available information and, when necessary, we seek input from our third-party advisors when making these assessments. Consistent with SEC rules and requirements, we
describe below material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business), material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities, other proceedings arising under federal, state, or
local environmental laws and regulations (including governmental proceedings involving potential fines, penalties, or other monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000), and such other pending matters that we may determine to be appropriate.
      ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS       As
previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2012, the Illinois Attorney General s Office notified UPRR on January 14, 2013, that it will seek a penalty against the Railroad for environmental conditions caused by its
predecessor at a former locomotive fueling facility in South Pekin, Illinois. This former CNW facility discontinued fueling operations in the early 1980s. Subsequent environmental investigation revealed evidence of fuel releases to soil and
groundwater. In January 2007, the State rejected UPRR s proposed compliance commitment agreement and responded with a notice of intent to pursue legal action. UPRR continued to perform remedial investigations under the supervision of the
Illinois EPA. In June 2012, the Illinois EPA approved UPRR s proposed remedial action plan for the contamination. Although no further action is required for the contamination, the State is now seeking to recover a penalty. The State offered to
settle the matter prior to litigation for payment of a $240,000 penalty. UPRR rejected that offer, and the state sued UPRR on October 26, 2013 in the Circuit Court for the Tenth Judicial Circuit, Tazewell County, Illinois. UPRR will vigorously
defend against the allegations in the complaint. Although the complaint does not state an amount for the proposed penalty, any penalty, whether payable by settlement or following an unsuccessful defense of the claim, may exceed $100,000.   
  We received notices from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are or may be liable under federal or state environmental laws
for remediation costs at various sites throughout the U.S., including sites on the Superfund National Priorities List or state superfund lists. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings and suits because of the number of potentially
responsible parties involved, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs.   
  Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.       OTHER MATTERS
       Antitrust Litigation    As we reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, 20
rail shippers (many of whom are represented by the same law firms) filed virtually identical antitrust lawsuits in various federal district courts against us and four other Class I railroads in the U.S. Currently, UPRR and three other Class I
railroads are the named defendants in the lawsuit. The original plaintiff filed the first of these claims in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey on May 14, 2007. The number of complaints reached a total of 30. These suits allege that the
named railroads engaged in price-fixing by establishing common fuel surcharges for certain rail traffic.      In addition to suits filed by
direct purchasers of rail transportation, a few of the suits involved plaintiffs alleging that they are or were indirect purchasers of rail transportation and sought to represent a purported class of indirect purchasers of rail transportation that
paid fuel surcharges. These complaints added allegations under state antitrust and consumer protection laws. On November 6, 2007, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered that all of the rail fuel surcharge cases be transferred to
Judge Paul Friedman of the U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. Following numerous hearings and rulings, Judge Friedman dismissed the complaints of the indirect purchasers, which the
indirect purchasers appealed. On April 16, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed Judge Friedman s ruling dismissing the indirect purchasers  claims based on various state laws.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

   With respect to the direct purchasers  complaint, Judge Friedman conducted a two-day hearing on
October 6 and 7, 2010, on the class certification issue and the railroad defendants  motion to exclude evidence of interline communications. On April 7, 2011, Judge Friedman issued an order deferring any decision on class
certification until the Supreme Court issued its decision in the Wal-Mart employment discrimination case.      On June 21, 2012, Judge
Friedman issued his decision, which certified a class of plaintiffs with eight named plaintiff representatives. The decision included in the class all shippers that paid a rate-based fuel surcharge to any one of the defendant railroads for
rate-unregulated rail transportation from July 1, 2003, through December 31, 2008. This was a procedural ruling, which did not affirm any of the claims asserted by the plaintiffs and does not affect the ability of the railroad defendants
to disprove the allegations made by the plaintiffs. On July 5, 2012, the defendant railroads filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia requesting that the court review the class certification ruling. On
August 28, 2012, a panel of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia referred the petition to a merits panel of the court to address the issues in the petition and to address whether the district court properly granted class certification.
The Circuit Court heard oral arguments on May 3, 2013. On August 9, 2013, the Circuit Court vacated the class certification decision and remanded the case to the district court to reconsider the class certification decision in light of a
recent Supreme Court case and incomplete consideration of errors in the expert report of the plaintiffs. On October 31, 2013, Judge Friedman approved a schedule agreed to by all parties for consideration of the class certification issue on
remand. The schedule, which includes dates for briefs, expert reports and depositions, concludes in June 2014. The court has not set a date for hearing arguments on the class certification issue or any other aspect of this litigation.   
  As we reported in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 10, 2011, the Railroad received a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Columbia on June 7, 2011, by Oxbow Carbon   Minerals LLC and related entities (Oxbow). The complaint named the Railroad and one other U.S. Class I Railroad as defendants and alleged that the named railroads engaged
in price-fixing and monopolistic practices in connection with fuel surcharge programs and pricing of shipments of certain commodities, including coal and petroleum coke. The complaint sought injunctive relief and payment of damages of over $30
million, and other unspecified damages, including treble damages. Some of the allegations in the complaint were addressed in the existing fuel surcharge litigation referenced above. The complaint also included additional unrelated allegations
regarding alleged limitations on competition for shipments of Oxbow s commodities. Judge Friedman, who presides over the fuel surcharge matter described above, also presides over this matter. On February 26, 2013, Judge Friedman granted
the defendants  motion to dismiss Oxbow s complaint for failure to state properly a claim under the antitrust laws. However, the dismissal was without prejudice to refile the complaint. Judge Friedman approved a schedule that allowed Oxbow
to file a revised complaint, which Oxbow filed on May 1, 2013. The amended complaint alleges that UPRR and one other Class I railroad violated Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act and that UPRR also breached a tolling agreement between
Oxbow and UPRR. Oxbow claims that it paid more than $50 million in wrongfully imposed fuel surcharges. UPRR and the other railroad filed separate motions to dismiss the Oxbow revised complaint on July 1, 2013.   
  We deny the allegations that our fuel surcharge programs violate the antitrust laws or any other laws. We believe that these lawsuits are without
merit, and we will vigorously defend our actions. Therefore, we currently believe that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on any of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
     Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures        Not applicable.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

       Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries
       The Board of Directors typically elects and designates our executive officers on an annual basis at the board meeting held in
conjunction with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and they hold office until their successors are elected. Executive officers also may be elected and designated throughout the year, as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. There are no
family relationships among the officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. The following table sets forth certain information current as of February 7,
2014, relating to the executive officers.       

Name   
      
    Position   
      
    Age   
      
    Business Experience During Past Five Years    

John J. Koraleski   
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and Chief Executive Officer of the Railroad   
      
  63  
      
  [1]   

Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
      
    Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  56  
      
  Current Position   

Diane K. Duren   
      
    Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  54  
      
  [2]   

Gayla L. Thal   
      
    Senior Vice President   Law and General Counsel of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  57  
      
  [3]   

Jeffrey P. Totusek   
      
    Vice President and Controller of UPC and Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of the Railroad   
      
  55  
      
  Current Position   

Lance M. Fritz   
      
    President and Chief Operating Officer of the Railroad   
      
  51  
      
  [4]   

Eric L. Butler   
      
    Executive Vice President   Marketing and Sales of the Railroad   
      
  53  
      
  [5]   

[1]   
     Mr. Koraleski was elected Chief Executive Officer and President of UPC and the Railroad effective March 2, 2012. In connection with the election of Mr.
Fritz to President of the Railroad on February 6, 2014, Mr. Koraleski no longer serves as President of the Railroad. He previously was Executive Vice President   Marketing and Sales of the Railroad effective March 1, 1999.

[2]   
     Ms. Duren was elected Executive Vice President of UPC and the Railroad effective October 1, 2012. She previously was Vice President and General
Manager   Chemicals effective August 1, 2006. In addition, Ms. Duren was elected Corporate Secretary, effective March 1, 2013.           

[3]   
     Ms. Thal was elected to her current position effective March 15, 2012. She previously was Vice President   Law and Chief Compliance Officer
effective December 1, 2005.           

[4]   
     Mr. Fritz was elected to his current position effective February 6, 2014. He previously was Executive Vice President   Operations of the
Railroad, effective September 1, 2010, and Vice President   Operations of the Railroad, effective January 1, 2010. In addition, Mr. Fritz was Vice President   Labor Relations effective March 1, 2008 .       

[5]   
     Mr. Butler was elected to his current position effective March 15, 2012. He previously was Vice President and General Manager   Industrial
Products effective April 14, 2005.       
         19   

Table of Contents  

     PART II           Item 5.  Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
  Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP . The following table presents the dividends
declared and the high and low prices of our common stock for each of the indicated quarters.       
    At January 31, 2014, there were 455,057,609 shares of common stock outstanding and 31,914 common shareholders
of record. On that date, the closing price of the common stock on the NYSE was $174.24. We have paid dividends to our common shareholders during each of the past 114 years. We declared dividends totaling $1,371 million in 2013 and $1,180 million in
2012. On August 1, 2013, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.79 per share, payable on October 1, 2013, to shareholders of record on August 30, 2013. On February 6, 2014, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.91 per
share, payable on April 1, 2014, to shareholders of record on February 28, 2014. We are subject to certain restrictions regarding retained earnings with respect to the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained
earnings available for dividends increased to $16.3 billion at December 31, 2013, from $15.1 billion at December 31, 2012. (See discussion of this restriction in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources, Item 7.) We do not believe the restriction on retained earnings will affect our ability to pay dividends, and we currently expect to pay dividends in 2014.   
   Comparison Over One- and Three-Year Periods    The following table presents the cumulative total shareholder returns, assuming
reinvestment of dividends, over one- and three-year periods for the Corporation (UNP), a peer group index (comprised of CSX Corporation and Norfolk Southern Corporation), the Dow Jones Transportation Index (DJ Trans), and the Standard  
Poor s 500 Stock Index (S P 500).       
 
         20   

Table of Contents  

    Five-Year Performance Comparison    The following graph provides an indicator of cumulative
total shareholder returns for the Corporation as compared to the peer group index (described above), the DJ Trans, and the S P 500. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the common stock of Union Pacific Corporation and each index on
December 31, 2008 and that all dividends were reinvested. The information below is historical in nature and is not necessarily indicative of future performance.       

Purchases of Equity Securities    During 2013, we repurchased 14,996,957 shares of our common stock
at an average price of $152.14. The following table presents common stock repurchases during each month for the fourth quarter of 2013:       

[a]   
     Total number of shares purchased during the quarter includes approximately 5,264 shares delivered or attested to UPC by employees to pay stock option
exercise prices, satisfy excess tax withholding obligations for stock option exercises or vesting of retention units, and pay withholding obligations for vesting of retention shares.       

[b]   
     On April 1, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 40 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2014. These
repurchases may be made on the open market or through other transactions. Our management has sole discretion with respect to determining the timing and amount of these transactions. On November 21, 2013, the Board of Directors approved the
early renewal of the share repurchase program, authorizing the repurchase of 60 million common shares by December 31, 2017. The new authorization is effective January 1, 2014, and replaces the previous authorization, which expired on
December 31, 2013, three months earlier than its original expiration date.       
         21   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.  Selected Financial Data     
  The following table presents as of, and for the years ended, December 31, our selected financial data for each of the last five years. The
selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and with the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. The
information below is historical in nature and is not necessarily indicative of future financial condition or results of operations.       

[a]   
     Includes fuel surcharge revenue of $2.6 billion, $2.6 billion, $2.2 billion, $1.2 billion, and $0.6 billion for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively, which partially offsets increased operating expenses for fuel. (See further discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Operating
Revenues, Item 7.)           

[b]   
     Long-term obligations is determined as follows: total liabilities less current liabilities.       

[c]   
     Operating ratio is defined as operating expenses divided by operating revenues.       

[d]   
     Debt to capital is determined as follows: total debt divided by total debt plus common shareholders  equity.       

[e]   
     Return on average common shareholders  equity is determined as follows: Net income divided by average common shareholders  equity.
      
         22   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations        The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and
applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this
Item 7.      The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is
analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network.   
   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY        2013 Results    

Safety    During 2013, we continued focusing on safety to reduce risk and eliminate incidents for our employees, our customers and the public. Our
sustained efforts to improve crossing warning systems and, where possible, close at-grade crossings reduced grade crossing incidents per million train miles by 7% during the year. We closed 212 grade crossings in 2013 to reduce our exposure to
incidents and continued using video cameras on our locomotives to analyze safety incidents. Although reportable personal injury incidents per 200,000 employee hours increased 4% from last year s record low, it is our second lowest year and a 9%
decline from 2011. Our reportable derailment incidents per million train miles increased slightly, less than 1%, from 2012. These results demonstrate our continued development and expansion of our safety programs and initiatives, including Courage
to Care, Total Safety Culture, and Standard Work.          

Financial Performance    In 2013, we generated operating income of $7.4 billion, a 10% increase over 2012. Core pricing gains of 3.6% along with
our ongoing focus on safety, service, network efficiency and productivity drove record financial results for the year. Our operating ratio for 2013 of 66.1% was an all-time best, improving from last year s operating ratio of 67.8%. Net income
of $4.4 billion surpassed our previous milestone set in 2012, translating into earnings of $9.42 per diluted share for 2013.          

Freight Revenues    Our freight revenues grew 5% year-over-year to $20.7 billion. Freight revenues for five of the six commodity groups increased
despite flat volume. Volume growth in shale-related products (crude oil and frac sand), automotive and domestic intermodal offset declines in coal, international intermodal and agricultural products. Core pricing gains, an automotive logistics
management arrangement and shifts in business mix all resulted in higher average revenue per car (ARC), which drove the growth in freight revenue in 2013 compared to 2012. Our fuel surcharge was essentially flat versus 2012, as lower fuel price
offset improved fuel recovery provisions and the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months).      

Network Operations    In 2013, despite challenging weather and significant shifts in our business mix, our operations remained efficient and fluid.
As reported to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), average train speed declined 2% in 2013 compared to 2012, reflecting severe weather conditions and shifts of traffic to sections of our network with higher utilization. Average terminal
dwell time increased 3% primarily due to continuing growth of manifest traffic, which requires more time in terminals for switching cars and building trains.      

Fuel Prices    In 2013, the average price per barrel of crude oil increased from 2012. However, the average price per gallon of diesel fuel that we
paid in 2013 decreased 2% from the average price in 2012, as lower crude oil to diesel conversion spreads in 2013 more than offset the higher price for crude oil. The lower price decreased operating expenses by $75 million (excluding any impact from
year-over-year volume). A 1% decline in gross-ton miles also drove lower fuel expense. Our fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, increased 2% compared to 2012 partially offsetting the decreases.
Declines in heavier, more fuel-efficient coal shipments drove the gross-ton-mile and fuel consumption rate variances.          

Free Cash Flow    Cash generated by operating activities totaled $6.8 billion, yielding record free cash flow of $2.1 billion after reductions of
$3.4 billion for cash used in investing activities and a 16%      
         23   

Table of Contents  

increase in dividends paid. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.      
  Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) by SEC
Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures
our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by
operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):       
     2014 Outlook        

Safety    Operating a safe railroad benefits our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and the communities we serve. We will continue using a
multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, training and employee engagement, and targeted capital investments. We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety Culture and Courage to
Care throughout our operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. Derailment prevention and the reduction of grade crossing incidents are also critical aspects of our safety programs. We
will continue our efforts to increase detection of rail defects; improve or close crossings; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies),
various industry programs and local community activities across our network.          

Network Operations    We believe the Railroad is capable of handling growing volumes while providing high levels of customer service. Our track
structure is in excellent condition, and certain sections of our network have surplus line and terminal capacity. We are in a solid resource position, with sufficient supplies of locomotives, freight cars and crews to support growth.

Fuel Prices    Uncertainty about the economy makes projections of fuel prices difficult. We again could see volatile fuel prices during the year,
as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors. To reduce the impact of fuel price on earnings, we will continue seeking cost recovery from our customers through
our fuel surcharge programs and expanding our fuel conservation efforts.          

Capital Plan    In 2014, we plan to make total capital investments of approximately $3.9 billion, including expenditures for Positive Train Control
(PTC), which may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources  
Capital Plan.)          

Positive Train Control    In response to a legislative mandate to implement PTC by the end of 2015, we have invested $1.2 billion in capital
expenditures and plan to spend an additional $450 million during 2014 on developing and deploying PTC. We currently estimate that PTC, in accordance with implementing rules issued by the Federal Rail Administration (FRA), will cost us approximately
$2 billion by the end of the project. This includes costs for installing the new system along our tracks, upgrading locomotives to work with the new system, and adding digital data communication equipment to integrate the various components of the
system and achieve interoperability for the industry. Although it is unlikely that the rail industry will meet the current mandatory 2015 deadline (as the FRA indicated in its 2012 report to Congress), we are making a good faith effort to do so and
we are working closely with regulators as we implement this new technology.      
         24   

Table of Contents  

Financial Expectations    We are cautious about the economic environment, but, assuming that industrial production grows approximately 3% as
projected, volume should exceed 2013 levels. Even with no volume growth, we expect earnings to exceed 2013 earnings, generated by core pricing gains, on-going network improvements and productivity initiatives. We expect that free cash flow for 2014
will be lower than 2013 as higher cash from operations will be more than offset by additional cash of approximately $400 million that will be used to pay income taxes that were previously deferred through bonus depreciation, increased capital spend
and higher dividend payments.          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS        Operating Revenues        
    We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight
revenues vary with volume (carloads) and ARC. Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from
specific locations, which we record as reductions to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues as shipments move from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues between reporting
periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.      Other revenues include
revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage.
We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.      Freight revenues from five of our six commodity
groups increased during 2013 compared to 2012. Revenue from agricultural products was down slightly compared to 2012. ARC increased 5%, driven by core pricing gains, shifts in business mix and an automotive logistics management arrangement. Volume
was essentially flat year over year as growth in automotives, frac sand, crude oil and domestic intermodal offset declines in coal, international intermodal and grain shipments.   
  Freight revenues from four of our six commodity groups increased during 2012 compared to 2011. Revenues from coal and agricultural products
declined during the year. Our franchise diversity allowed us to take advantage of growth from shale-related markets (crude oil, frac sand and pipe) and strong automotive manufacturing, which offset volume declines from coal and agricultural
products. ARC increased 7%, driven by core pricing gains and higher fuel cost recoveries. Improved fuel recovery provisions and higher fuel prices, including the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by
approximately two months), combined to increase revenues from fuel surcharges.      Our fuel surcharge programs generated freight revenues
of $2.6 billion, $2.6 billion, and $2.2 billion in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Fuel surcharge in 2013 was essentially flat versus 2012 as lower fuel price offset improved fuel recovery provisions and the lag effect of our programs
(surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months). Rising fuel prices and more shipments subject to fuel surcharges drove the increase from 2011 to 2012.   
  In 2013, other revenue increased from 2012 due primarily to miscellaneous contract revenue and higher revenues at our subsidiaries that broker
intermodal and automotive services.      In 2012, other revenues increased from 2011 due primarily to higher revenues at our subsidiaries
that broker intermodal and automotive services. Assessorial revenues also increased in 2012 due to container revenue related to an increase in intermodal shipments.   
         25   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and
ARC by commodity type:       

[a]   
     Each intermodal container or trailer equals one carload.       

Agricultural Products    Lower volume offset price improvements as freight revenue declined slightly versus 2012. In
the fourth quarter grain shipments increased 41% due to a robust fall harvest. Despite the fourth quarter growth, grain shipments still decreased 4% for the full year when compared to 2012, reflecting the impact of the severe drought in 2012 that
affected territory served by us during the first three quarters of 2013. Export wheat shipped to the Gulf and Pacific Northwest increased in the second half of 2013, partially offsetting the declines in grain.  
      Lower   volume  more   than  offset
 pricing gains   
      
     2013 Agricultural Carloads       

and increased fuel surcharges as agricultural freight revenue decreased in 2012 versus 2011. Weak export demand for
U.S. wheat drove a 19% decrease in wheat shipments year over year, as the foreign wheat market improved significantly from the weather affected crop in 2011. In addition, corn shipments declined 11% for the year, with more significant declines in
the fourth quarter, reflecting the impact of the severe drought across the U.S. Lower gasoline demand, reduced exports and higher corn prices decreased ethanol shipments during the second half of the year. Growth in imported beer from Mexico and a
strong domestic harvest of fresh potatoes partially offset these declines.    
 
         26   

Table of Contents  

Automotive    Higher ARC due to price increases and the logistics management arrangement that covers fees and container
costs, coupled with increased shipments of automotive parts and finished vehicles, improved automotive revenue in 2013 compared to 2012. Higher production and sales levels during 2013 drove the volume growth.  
      In 2012, stronger shipments of finished vehicles and automotive
parts along with pricing gains and higher fuel surcharges improved automotive freight revenue from 2011 levels. Higher production and sales levels drove the volume growth. In addition, 2012 shipments compared favorably to 2011 due to lower shipments
of international vehicles in 2011 following the disaster in Japan.   
      
     2013 Automotive Carloads       

Chemicals    Volume gains and price improvement increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2013 versus 2012. Shipments
of crude oil from the Bakken, Permian, Niobrara and Eagle Ford shale formations primarily to the Gulf area drove the growth in shipments of chemicals. In addition, shipments of industrial chemicals increased as manufacturing, housing and automotive
markets improved.         Higher volume, price improvements
and fuel surcharges increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2012. Shipments of crude oil primarily from the Bakken, Permian and Eagle Ford Shale formations to the Gulf area  increased  over  three
 fold,  driving  the   
      
     2013 Chemicals Carloads       

improvement in chemicals shipments. In addition, plastics and industrial chemicals shipments increased as low
natural gas prices have made U.S. chemicals more cost competitive globally. Declines in potash due to temporary shutdowns and reduced production at several mines partially offset the increases in chemical shipments during the year.   

Coal    ARC gains driven by price increases and positive business mix partially offset by volume declines increased freight revenue from coal shipments in 2013
versus 2012. Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) shipments declined 10% from 2012 due to the loss of a customer contract at the beginning of the year, relatively mild summer weather, and tighter coal inventory management by utilities. Shipments from
Colorado and Utah mines decreased 13% compared to 2012, driven by soft domestic demand and mine production issues, partially offset by second half growth in international shipments. Severe flooding and washouts in Colorado also reduced volumes from
certain producers in the third quarter.   
      
     2013 Coal Carloads       

Lower volume, partially offset by pricing gains and fuel surcharge recoveries reduced freight revenue from coal
shipments in 2012 compared to 2011. Shipments of coal from the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) mines decreased 15% from 2011. Above average coal stockpiles due to an unseasonably warm winter and low natural gas prices, which caused some
displacement of coal in electricity production, led to   
         27   

Table of Contents  

the volume declines. In addition, the loss of two contracts to a competitor contributed to lower volumes from the SPRB. Coal shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines increased 2% versus 2011.
Increased export shipments of Colorado and Utah coal in 2012 offset the domestic declines due to higher stockpiles and low natural gas prices.       

Industrial Products    Freight revenue from industrial products increased in 2013 versus 2012 driven by volume growth
and higher ARC due to pricing gains and favorable business mix. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand) grew as a result of drilling activity for energy products. Additionally, growth in new housing construction and home
improvements drove an increase in lumber shipments. Declines in ferrous scrap and government shipments partially offset these higher volumes.      
  Pricing improvement, higher volume and additional fuel surcharges increased freight revenue from industrial products  in  2012
 versus   
      
     2013 Industrial Products Carloads   

2011. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand), grew in response to increased horizontal drilling
activity for energy products. More construction activity during a relatively mild winter led to higher demand for shipments of lumber, cement and stone compared to 2011. The growth in housing starts throughout 2012 also increased lumber shipments,
up 12% from 2011. Steel shipments finished slightly down from 2011 levels as lower demand for export scrap and mine production issues in the second half of the year offset increases in the first half due to higher demand for steel coils and plate
for pipe and auto production.       

Intermodal    Pricing improvements and slight volume growth drove increased freight revenue from intermodal shipments
in 2013 compared to 2012. Domestic traffic increased 3% due to conversions from truck transportation to rail. International traffic declined 2% versus 2012, reflecting market share shifts within the ocean carrier industry and an increase in
transloading in the second half of the year. Transloading involves the transfer of goods from international to domestic containers at distribution centers near West coast ports, which reduces demand for rail transportation to these
centers.         Higher fuel surcharges, including improved
fuel   
      
     2013 Intermodal Carloads       

recovery provisions, core pricing gains and volume growth increased freight revenue from intermodal shipments in
2012. Volume levels from international traffic remained flat year-over-year as the loss of a customer contract in the first half of the year offset modest West Coast import growth. Domestic traffic increased 3% versus 2011 due to better market
conditions and continued conversion of traffic from truck to rail.       Mexico Business    Each of our commodity groups includes
revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business increased 9% to $2.1 billion in 2013 versus 2012. Shipments were up 3% versus 2012, all commodity groups grew with the exception of agricultural products. The largest growth
came from automotive and industrial products shipments.      Revenue from Mexico business increased 8% to $1.9 billion in 2012 versus 2011.
Volume levels for four of the six commodity groups (industrial products and agricultural products declined), were up 5% in aggregate versus 2011, with particularly strong growth in automotive and intermodal shipments.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

    Operating Expenses        

Operating expenses increased $336 million in 2013 versus 2012. Wage and benefit inflation, new logistics management fees and
container costs for our automotive business, locomotive overhauls, property taxes and repairs on jointly owned property contributed to higher expenses during the year. Lower fuel prices partially offset the cost increases.  
      Operating expenses increased $348 million in 2012 versus 2011.
Depreciation, wage and benefit inflation, higher fuel prices and volume-related trucking services purchased by our logistics subsidiaries, contributed to higher expenses  during   the  year.  Efficiency
 gains,   
      
     2013 Operating Expenses       

volume related fuel savings (2% fewer gallons of fuel consumed) and $38 million of weather related expenses in 2011,
which favorably affects the comparison, partially offset the cost increase.       Compensation and Benefits    Compensation and
benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. General wages and benefits inflation, higher work force levels and increased pension and other postretirement
benefits drove the increases in 2013 versus 2012. The impact of ongoing productivity initiatives partially offset these increases.   
  Expenses in 2012 were essentially flat versus 2011 as operational improvements and cost reductions offset general wage and benefit inflation and
higher pension and other postretirement benefits. In addition, weather related costs increased these expenses in 2011.       Fuel 
  Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Lower locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.15 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2013, compared to $3.22 in
2012, decreased expenses by $75 million. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 1% while the fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, increased 2% compared to 2012. Declines in heavier, more
fuel-efficient coal shipments drove the variances in gross-ton-miles and the fuel consumption rate.      Higher locomotive diesel fuel
prices, which averaged $3.22 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2012, compared to $3.12 in 2011, increased expenses by $105 million. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 2% in 2012 versus 2011, driving expense
down. The fuel consumption rate was flat year-over-year.       Purchased Services and Materials    Expense for purchased services
and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors and other service providers (including equipment maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to
maintain the Railroad s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers;
leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and   
         29   

Table of Contents  

supplies. Expenses for purchased services increased 10% compared to 2012 due to logistics management fees, an increase in locomotive overhauls and repairs on jointly owned property.   
  Expenses for contract services increased $103 million in 2012 versus 2011, primarily due to increased demand for transportation services purchased
by our logistics subsidiaries for their customers and additional costs for repair and maintenance of locomotives and freight cars.   
   Depreciation    The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track material.
Depreciation was up 1% compared to 2012. Recent depreciation studies allowed us to use longer estimated service lives for certain equipment, which partially offset the impact of a higher depreciable asset base resulting from larger capital spending
in recent years.      A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting ongoing capital spending, increased depreciation expense in 2012 compared
to 2011.       Equipment and Other Rents    Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad
pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent expenses. Additional container costs resulting from the logistics management arrangement, and increased
automotive shipments, partially offset by lower cycle times drove a $51 million increase in our short-term freight car rental expense versus 2012. Conversely, lower locomotive and freight car lease expenses partially offset the higher freight car
rental expense.      Increased automotive and intermodal shipments, partially offset by improved car-cycle times, drove an increase in our
short-term freight car rental expense in 2012 compared to 2011. Conversely, lower locomotive lease expense partially offset the higher freight car rental expense.       Other    Other expenses include state and local taxes, freight, equipment and property damage, utilities, insurance, personal injury, environmental, employee travel, telephone and cellular, computer
software, bad debt, and other general expenses. Higher property taxes and costs associated with damaged freight and property increased other costs in 2013 compared to 2012. Continued improvement in our safety performance and lower estimated
liability for personal injury, which reduced our personal injury expense year-over-year, partially offset increases in other costs.   
  Other costs in 2012 were slightly higher than 2011 primarily due to higher property taxes. Despite continual improvement in our safety experience
and lower estimated annual costs, personal injury expense increased in 2012 compared to 2011, as the liability reduction resulting from historical claim experience was less than the reduction in 2011.   
   Non-Operating Items        
     Other Income    Other income increased in 2013 versus 2012 due to higher gains from real estate sales
and increased lease income, including the favorable impact from the $17 million settlement of a land lease contract. These increases were partially offset by interest received from a tax refund in 2012.   
  Other income decreased in 2012 versus 2011 due to lower gains from real estate sales and higher environmental costs associated with non-operating
properties, partially offset by interest received from a tax refund.       Interest Expense    Interest expense decreased in 2013
versus 2012 due to a lower effective interest rate of 5.7% in 2013 versus 6.0% in 2012. The increase in the weighted-average debt level to $9.6 billion in 2013 from $9.1 billion in 2012 partially offset the impact of the lower effective interest
rate.      Interest expense decreased in 2012 versus 2011 reflecting a lower effective interest rate in 2012 of 6.0% versus 6.2% in 2011 as
the debt level did not materially change from 2011 to 2012.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

    Income Taxes    Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2013 compared to 2012. Our
effective tax rate for 2013 was relatively flat at 37.7% compared to 37.6% in 2012.      Income taxes were higher in 2012 compared to 2011,
primarily driven by higher pre-tax income. Our effective tax rate remained relatively flat at 37.6% in 2012 compared to 37.5% in 2011.       OTHER
OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS       We report a number of key performance measures weekly to the Association of American
Railroads (AAR). We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investors/reports/index.shtml.       Operating/Performance Statistics    
  Railroad performance measures are included in the table below:       

[a]   
     As of January 1, 2014, we significantly changed the methodology for compiling our customer satisfaction information and, as a result, we will not
include this index in future reports as no meaningful comparison is available.           Note: Average rail car
inventory is no longer being reported as a key railroad performance measure because of recently identified inaccuracies in the AAR s calculation for the rail industry, which prevents comparisons to prior reporting periods. The impact of changes
in rail car inventory will be described, as necessary, in connection with our discussion of train speed and/or terminal dwell metrics.        Average Train Speed    Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals. Average train speed, as reported to the Association of American
Railroads (AAR), decreased 2% in 2013 versus 2012. The decline was driven by severe weather conditions and shifts of traffic to sections of our network with higher utilization.   
  Average train speed increased 4% in 2012 versus 2011. Efficient operations and relatively mild weather conditions during the year compared
favorably to 2011, during which severe winter weather, flooding, and extreme heat and drought affected various parts of our network. We continued operating a fluid and efficient network while handling essentially the same volume and adjusting
operations to accommodate increased capital project work on our network compared to 2011.       Average Terminal Dwell Time   
Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time increased 3% primarily due to continuing growth of
manifest traffic which requires more time in terminals for switching cars and building trains. Average terminal dwell time remained flat in 2012 compared to 2011, despite a shift in traffic mix to more manifest shipments, which require more
switching at terminals.       Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles    Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded
and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles declined 1% in 2013 compared to 2012 and carloads
remained relatively flat driven by declines in coal and agricultural products offset by growth in chemical, autos and industrial products. Gross ton-miles declined 2% in 2012 compared to 2011, while revenue ton-miles decreased 4% and carloads
remained relatively flat. Changes in commodity mix drove the year-over-year variances between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloads.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

    Operating Ratio    Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of
operating revenue. Our operating ratio improved 1.7 points to a new record low of 66.1% in 2013 versus 2012. Core pricing and productivity gains more than offset the impact of inflation. Our operating ratio improved 2.9 points to a record low of
67.8% in 2012 versus 2011. Core pricing gains, improved fuel recovery provisions, efficient operations and cost reductions more than offset the impact of inflationary pressures   
   Employees    Employee levels increased 1% in 2013 versus 2012. Shifts in our traffic mix, which requires more resources, largely
concentrated in the Southern region, work related to higher capital investment in positive train control and more individuals in the training pipeline contributed to the higher employee levels. Employee levels increased 2% in 2012 versus 2011. Work
related to the increase in capital investment, including positive train control, accounted for over half of the increase. Additionally, the shift in our traffic mix required more resources in the Southern region to support the growth in
shale-related shipments.       Customer Satisfaction Index    Our customer satisfaction survey asks customers to rate how
satisfied they are with our performance over the last 12 months on a variety of attributes. A higher score indicates higher customer satisfaction. As of January 1, 2014, we significantly changed the methodology for compiling our customer
satisfaction information and, as a result, we will not include this index in future reports as no meaningful comparison is available.       Return on
Average Common Shareholders  Equity        
     Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)    
   
    ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may
not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance
criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is
Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity. The tables above provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders  equity to ROIC. Our 2013 ROIC improved 0.7 points compared to 2012, primarily as a result of higher
earnings.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

    Debt to Capital / Adjusted Debt to Capital    
   
    Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation
S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease
obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. Operating leases were discounted using 5.7% and 6.0% at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The
discount rate reflects our effective interest rate. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with our overall cost of capital. Adjusted
debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide reconciliations from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2013 debt to capital ratios
decreased as a result of a $1.3 billion increase in equity from December 31, 2012, driven by higher earnings.       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
      As of December 31, 2013, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization
facility, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.8 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings
outstanding as of December 31, 2013. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2013. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the $600 million capacity receivables securitization facility was $0 as
of December 31, 2013. Amounts outstanding under this facility are included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year. Our access to this receivables securitization facility may be reduced or restricted if
our bond ratings fall to certain levels below investment grade. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market
conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is
also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the size or utilization of our receivables securitization,
(ii) issuing commercial paper, (iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of
the credit markets. The Company s $1.8 billion revolving credit facility is intended to support the issuance of commercial paper by UPC and also serves as an emergency source of liquidity. The Company currently does not intend to make any
borrowings under this facility.      At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had a modest working capital surplus. This reflects a strong
cash position that provides enhanced liquidity in an uncertain economic environment. In addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy
our current liabilities.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

Operating Activities       Higher net income in 2013 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2012. In addition, we made payments in 2012 for past wages as a result of national labor negotiations, which reduced cash
provided by operating activities in 2012. Lower tax benefits from bonus depreciation (as discussed below) partially offset some of the increases.      Higher net income in 2012 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2011, partially offset by lower tax benefits from bonus depreciation and payments for past wages based on national labor
negotiations settled in 2012.      Federal tax law provided for 100% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2011, and 50%
bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2012 and 2013. As a result, the Company deferred a substantial portion of its 2011, 2012 and 2013 income tax expense. This deferral decreased 2011, 2012 and 2013 income tax payments, thereby
contributing to the positive operating cash flow. In future years, however, income tax payments will increase as we pay these previously deferred income taxes.       Investing Activities       Lower capital investments in locomotives and freight cars drove the
decrease in cash used in investing activities compared to 2012.      Higher capital investments in 2012 drove the increase in cash used in
investing activities compared to 2011. Included in capital investments in 2012 was $75 million for the early buyout of 165 locomotives under long-term operating and capital leases during the first quarter of 2012, which we exercised due to favorable
economic terms and market conditions.      The following tables detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended
December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011:       

[a]   
     Other includes bridges and tunnels, signals, other road assets, and road work equipment.       
         34   

Table of Contents  

Capital Plan    In 2014, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $3.9 billion, which
may be revised if business conditions or the regulatory environment affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. While the number of our assets replaced will fluctuate as part of our replacement strategy, for 2014 we
expect to use over 60% of our capital investments to replace and improve existing capital assets. Among our major investment categories are replacing and improving track infrastructure and upgrading our locomotive, freight car and container fleets,
including the acquisition of 200 locomotives. Additionally, we will continue increasing our network and terminal capacity, especially in the Southern region, and balancing terminal capacity with more mainline capacity. Construction of a major rail
facility at Santa Teresa, New Mexico, will be completed in 2014 and will include a run-through and fueling facility as well as an intermodal ramp. We also plan to make significant investments in technology improvements, including approximately $450
million for PTC.      We expect to fund our 2014 cash capital investments by using some or all of the following: cash generated from
operations, proceeds from the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan, which we
expect will enhance the long-term value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network
efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.       Financing Activities       Cash used in financing activities increased in 2013 versus 2012, driven
by a $744 million increase for the repurchase of shares under our common stock repurchase program and higher dividend payments in 2013 of $1.3 billion compared to $1.1 billion in 2012. We increased our debt levels in 2013, which partially offset the
increase in cash used in financing activities.      Cash used in financing activities increased in 2012 versus 2011. Dividend payments in
2012 increased by $309 million, reflecting our higher dividend rate, and common stock repurchases increased by $56 million. Our debt levels did not materially change from 2011 after a decline in debt levels from 2010. Therefore, less cash was used
in 2012 for debt activity than in 2011.       Dividends    On February 6, 2014, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.91
per share, payable on April 1, 2014, to shareholders of record on February 28, 2014. We expect to fund the increase in the quarterly dividend through cash generated from operations and cash on hand at December 31, 2013.   
   Credit Facilities    On December 31, 2013, we had $1.8 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the
facility), which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2013. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates
available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon credit ratings for our senior unsecured debt. The facility matures
in 2015 under a four year term and requires the Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012 (and at all times during the year), we were in
compliance with this covenant.      The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes,
among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2013, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $42.4 billion of
debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $9.9 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors
beyond our reasonable control   
         35   

Table of Contents  

could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing),
or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.      During 2013, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper, and at December 31, 2013, and 2012, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper
balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility.   
  As of December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, we have reclassified as long-term debt $0 and $100 million, respectively, of debt due
within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflects our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis.   
   Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges       For
each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 11.8, 10.4, and 8.4, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from
continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental
charges. (See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.)       Common Shareholders  Equity
       Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit
Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $16.3 billion and $15.1 billion at December 31, 2013, and
2012, respectively.       Share Repurchase Program       Effective April 1, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 40 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2014, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of
December 31, 2013, we repurchased a total of $9.3 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs. The table below represents shares repurchased under this repurchase program.   
   
    On November 21, 2013, our Board of Directors approved the early renewal of the share repurchase program,
authorizing the repurchase of up to 60 million shares of our common stock by December 31, 2017. The new authorization was effective January 1, 2014, and replaces the previous authorization, which expired on December 31, 2013,
three months earlier than its original expiration date.      Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts
guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand.
Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.       Shelf Registration
Statement and Significant New Borrowings    We filed an automatic shelf registration statement that became effective on February 8, 2013. The Board of Directors authorized the   
         36   

Table of Contents  

issuance of up to $4 billion of debt securities, replacing the $1.4 billion of authority remaining under our shelf registration filed in February 2010. SEC rules require UPC, a large accelerated
filer, to file a new shelf registration statement every three years. Under the current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or
preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf
registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.      During 2013, we issued the following unsecured,
fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:       
    We used the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common
stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2013, we had remaining authority to issue up to $2.85 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.
     In May 2012, we borrowed $100 million under a 4-year-term bank loan (the loan). The loan has a floating rate based on London Interbank
Offered Rates, plus a spread, and is prepayable in whole or in part without a premium prior to maturity. The agreement documenting the loan has provisions similar to our revolving credit facility, including identical debt-to-net-worth covenant and
change of control provisions and similar customary default provisions. The agreement does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers, or any other provision that would require us to post collateral.   
   Subsequent Event    In 2014, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:
      
    Proceeds from this offering are for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant
to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. As of February 7, 2014, we had remaining authority from our Board of Directors to issue up to $1.85 billion of debt securities under our shelf
registration.       Debt Exchange    On August 21, 2013, we exchanged $1,170 million of various outstanding notes and
debentures due between 2016 and 2040 (Existing Notes) for $439 million of 3.646% notes (New 2024 Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $700 million of 4.821% notes (New 2044 Notes) due February 1, 2044, plus cash consideration of approximately
$280 million in addition to $8 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. In accordance with ASC 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the
exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is
being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of the New 2024 Notes and the New 2044 Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than
the debt holders totaled approximately $9 million and were included in interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2013.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

   The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged:   
   
     Debt Redemptions    On May 14, 2013, we redeemed all $40 million of our outstanding 5.65% Port of
Corpus Christi Authority Revenue Refunding Bonds due December 1, 2022. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $1 million in the second quarter of 2013.   
  On November 30, 2012, we redeemed all $450 million of our outstanding 5.45% notes due January 31, 2013. The redemption resulted in an
early extinguishment charge of $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.      On April 28, 2012, we redeemed all $100 million of our
outstanding 5.70% Tooele County, Utah Hazardous Waste Treatment Revenue Bonds due November 1, 2026. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $2 million in the second quarter of 2012.   
  On December 19, 2011, we redeemed the remaining $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012, and all $300 million of our
outstanding 6.125% notes due January 15, 2012. The redemptions resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.       Receivables Securitization Facility    The Railroad maintains a $600 million, 364-day receivables securitization facility under which it sells most of its eligible third-party receivables to Union
Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary that may subsequently transfer, without recourse an undivided interest in accounts receivable to investors. The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other
assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.      The
amount outstanding under the facility was $0 and $100 million at December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, respectively. The facility was supported by $1.1 billion of accounts receivable as collateral at both December 31, 2013, and
December 31, 2012, which, as a retained interest, is included in accounts receivable, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.      The outstanding amount the Railroad is allowed to maintain under the facility, with a maximum of $600 million, may fluctuate based on the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by business
volumes and credit risks, including receivables payment quality measures such as default and dilution ratios. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the allowable outstanding amount under the facility would not materially change.
     The costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates,
program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The costs of the receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $5 million, $3 million and $4 million for 2013,
2012, and 2011, respectively.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

   In July 2013, the $600 million receivables securitization facility was renewed for an additional
364-day period at comparable terms and conditions.       Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments    
  As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and
commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and
structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand,
commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and
commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.      The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2013:       

[a]   
     Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,702 million and unamortized discount of $(604) million. Includes an interest component of $6,025 million.

[b]   
     Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate.       

[c]   
     Represents total obligations, including interest component of $498 million.       

[d]   
     Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, locomotives, ties, ballast, and rail; and
agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we cannot reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.       

[e]   
     Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years.

[f]   
     Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties,
as of December 31, 2013. For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column.           

[b]   
     None of the receivables securitization facility was utilized at December 31, 2013. The full program matures in July 2014.

[c]   
     Includes guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations.       

39   

Table of Contents  

    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        Guarantees    At December 31, 2013, and 2012, we were contingently liable for $299 million and $307 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $1 million and $2 million for the fair
value of these obligations as of December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment
financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.       OTHER MATTERS    
   Labor Agreements    Approximately 86% of our 46,445 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. In 2012, we
concluded the most recent round of negotiations, which began in 2010, with the ratification of new agreements by several unions. All of the unions executed similar multi-year agreements that provide for higher employee cost sharing of employee
health and welfare benefits and higher wages. The current agreements will remain in effect until renegotiated under provisions of the Railway Labor Act. The next round of negotiations will begin in early 2015.   
   Inflation    Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we
replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.       Derivative Financial Instruments    We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are
not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the
hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management
objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to
earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable
price movements.       Market and Credit Risk    We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting
instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic
settlements. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.       Determination of Fair Value    We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of
expected future cash flows.       Sensitivity Analyses    The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that
hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.   
  At December 31, 2013, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 2.2% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one
percentage point higher in 2014 than our December 31, 2013 variable rate, which was approximately 0.9%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $2 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical
interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2013.      Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the
potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2013, and amounts to an increase of approximately $1 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31,
2013. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

    Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges    We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as
debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our
debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.      Swaps allow us to convert
debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the
Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had no interest rate fair
value hedges outstanding.       Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in
accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At both December 31, 2013, and 2012, we had reductions of $1 million recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a straight-line
basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2013, and 2012, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.   
   Accounting Pronouncements    On February 5, 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts
Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  (ASU 2013-02), which adds additional disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. We adopted this ASU during the three months ended
March 31, 2013.       Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our
subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are
considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.   
   Indemnities    Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from
a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an
adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity
provisions.       Climate Change    Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial
performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our
operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.         CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES       Our Consolidated Financial Statements
have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical
experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas
of our financial statements and involve judgment   
         41   

Table of Contents  

and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.   
   Personal Injury    The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on
estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related
accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.   
  Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately
92% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and approximately 8% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2013. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably
possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $294 million to $322 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary
over time due to evolving trends in litigation.      Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:   
   
    Our personal injury claims activity was as follows:   
   
     Asbestos    We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other
parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability
for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:       

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
  Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.
Approximately 18% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 82% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2013. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is
reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $131 million to $141 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.
  
         42   

Table of Contents  

   Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:   
   
    Our asbestos-related claims activity was as follows:   
   
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2013, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We
have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2013, and 2012. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such
as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if
strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with
respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.       Environmental Costs    We are subject to federal, state, and
local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 268 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 33 sites that are the
subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate
environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.      When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We
expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash
payments is not fixed or readily determinable. At December 31, 2013, and 2012, none of our environmental liability was discounted, while less than 1% of our environmental liability was discounted at 2.0% at December 31, 2011.   
  Our environmental liability activity was as follows:       

[a]   
     Payments include $25 million to resolve the Omaha Lead Site liability.      
         43   

Table of Contents  

   Our environmental site activity was as follows:   
   
    The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing
monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and
regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination
by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing
environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.       Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital
program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if
they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density
traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in
which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not
as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.   
  We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at
least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:   

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic
corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2013, the estimated service lives of the
majority of this rail ranged from approximately 15 years to approximately 30 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives   
         44   

Table of Contents  

of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.
     Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset
strategies, and other factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and
retirement of our assets may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.      Changes in estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods  depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated
Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $59 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased
by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $63 million. Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in changes in depreciation rates for some asset classes but did not significantly affect our annual depreciation
expense.      Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the
ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and
(ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of
the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service
lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the
amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.   
  For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the
retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal
years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.   
   Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation
are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a 1% increase in future income tax rates would
increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $370 million.      When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred
tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized,
based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2013 and 2012, there were no valuation allowances.   
  We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as
the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition
and measurement standards.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    We use an actuarial analysis to measure the
liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make
  
         45   

Table of Contents  

several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical
assumptions are the discount rate and health care cost trend rate.      We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected
assumptions are based on the following factors:       

Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of
cash flows matches our plans  expected benefit payments.      

Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market
conditions.      

Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.      
  The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2013 and the estimated impact on
2013 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions:       
    The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Our net periodic pension cost is expected to decrease to approximately $65 million in 2014 from $110 million in
2013. The decrease is driven mainly by an increase in the discount rate to 4.72%, Our net periodic OPEB expense is expected to increase to approximately $15 million in 2014 from $14 million in 2013. The increase in our net periodic OPEB cost is
primarily driven by a decrease in the amortization of prior service credits from accumulated other comprehensive income.   
     CAUTIONARY INFORMATION       Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made
by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, (A) statements in the CEO s
letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption  2014 Capital Expenditures  in Item 2 of Part I; statements regarding dividends in Item  and statements and information set forth
under the captions  2014 Outlook  and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  in this Item 7, and (B) any other statements or information in this report   
         46   

Table of Contents  

(including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial performance, revenue growth and cost savings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will
be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance
or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions,
and modifications to our transportation plans; expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of
costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other
matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be
identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as  believes,   expects,   may,   should,   would,   will,   intends,   plans,   estimates, 
 anticipates,   projects  and similar words, phrases or expressions.      Forward-looking statements should not be read
as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently
available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to
variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form
8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.   
  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to
reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect
thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.         Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk        Information concerning market risk sensitive instruments is set forth under Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Other Matters, Item 7.      ****************************************
  
         47   

Table of Contents  

      Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

48   

Table of Contents  

        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Pacific Corporation:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in common shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the Table of Contents at Part IV, Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Corporation s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2013, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (1992)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 7, 2014 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.         

Omaha, Nebraska      February 7,
2014   
         49   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         50   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         51   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         52   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

[a]   
     AOCI = Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (Note 9)           The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

      NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies       For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the  Corporation ,  Company ,  UPC ,  we ,  us , and  our 
mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which will be separately referred to herein as  UPRR  or the  Railroad .       1. Nature of Operations        Operations and Segmentation    We are a Class I railroad
operating in the U.S. Our network includes 31,838 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We own 26,009 miles and operate on the
remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. We serve the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers for the handling of freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast,
the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic is moved through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders.      The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide and review revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the
Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. The following table provides freight revenue by commodity group:       
    Although our revenues are principally derived from customers domiciled in the U.S., the ultimate points of
origination or destination for some products transported by us are outside the U.S. Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Included in the above table are revenues from our Mexico business which amounted to
$2.1 billion in 2013, $1.9 billion in 2012, and $1.8 billion in 2011.       Basis of Presentation    The Consolidated Financial
Statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) as codified in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).   
   2. Significant Accounting Policies    
   Principles of Consolidation    The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Union Pacific Corporation and all of its
subsidiaries. Investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50% owned) are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. We currently have no less than majority-owned investments that require
consolidation under variable interest entity requirements.       Cash and Cash Equivalents    Cash equivalents consist of investments with
original maturities of three months or less.       Accounts Receivable    Accounts receivable includes receivables reduced by an
allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. Receivables not expected to be collected in one year and the associated allowances are classified as
other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   
         54   

Table of Contents  

    Investments    Investments represent our investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50%
owned) that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and investments in companies (less than 20% owned) accounted for under the cost method of accounting.       Materials and Supplies    Materials and supplies are carried at the lower of average cost or market.       Property and Depreciation    Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in
high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards), for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of
depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool
of resources, not as singular items. We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies. Under the group method of depreciation, no gain or loss is recognized when depreciable property is retired
or replaced in the ordinary course of business.       Impairment of Long-lived Assets    We review long-lived assets, including
identifiable intangibles, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less
than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value as measured by the discounted cash flows.       Revenue Recognition    We recognize freight revenues as freight moves from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each
reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Other revenues, which include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenue, are recognized as service is performed or contractual
obligations are met. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues based on actual or projected future customer
shipments.       Translation of Foreign Currency    Our portion of the assets and liabilities related to foreign investments are
translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Unrealized gains or losses are reflected within common
shareholders  equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.       Fair Value Measurements    We use a fair value
hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels include:      Level 1: Quoted market prices in
active markets for identical assets or liabilities.      Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated
by market data.      Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.   
  We have applied fair value measurements to our pension plan assets and short- and long-term debt.   
   Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive
stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit
vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted.      We measure and recognize compensation expense for all
stock-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options. Compensation expense is based on the calculated fair value of the awards as measured at the grant date and is expensed ratably over the service period of the awards
(generally the vesting period). The fair value of retention awards is the closing stock price on the date of grant, while the fair value of stock options is determined by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

    Earnings Per Share    Basic earnings per share are calculated on the weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share include shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and stock-based awards where the conversion of such instruments would be dilutive.   
   Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation
are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.   
  When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining
whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of
estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset.      We recognize tax benefits that are more
likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax
benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.   
   Pension and Postretirement Benefits    We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pensions and postretirement health
benefits. In order to measure the expense associated with these benefits, we must make various assumptions including discount rates used to value certain liabilities, expected return on plan assets used to fund these expenses, compensation
increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and expected future health care costs. The assumptions used by us are based on our historical experience as well as current facts and circumstances. We use an actuarial analysis to
measure the expense and liability associated with these benefits.       Personal Injury    The cost of injuries to employees and
others on our property is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability. Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present
value. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.       Asbestos    We estimate a liability for asserted and
unasserted asbestos-related claims based on an assessment of the number and value of those claims. We use a statistical analysis to assist us in properly measuring our potential liability. Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted
to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.       Environmental    When environmental issues have been identified with respect to property currently or formerly owned, leased, or otherwise used in the conduct of our business, we perform, with the
assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on such property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not
discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.   
   Use of Estimates    Our Consolidated Financial Statements include estimates and assumptions regarding certain assets, liabilities,
revenue, and expenses and the disclosure of certain contingent assets and liabilities. Actual future results may differ from such estimates.       3.
Accounting Pronouncements       On February 5, 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts
Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (ASU 2013-02),  which adds additional disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. We adopted this ASU during the three months ended
March 31, 2013.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

    4. Stock Options and Other Stock Plans    
  There are 7,140 restricted shares outstanding under the 1992 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation. We no
longer grant awards of restricted shares under this plan.      In April 2000, the shareholders approved the Union Pacific Corporation 2000
Directors Plan (Directors Plan) whereby 1,100,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance to our non-employee directors. Under the Directors Plan, each non-employee director, upon his or her initial election to the Board of Directors,
receives a grant of 2,000 retention shares or retention stock units. Prior to December 31, 2007, each non-employee director received annually an option to purchase at fair value a number of shares of our common stock, not to exceed 10,000
shares during any calendar year, determined by dividing 60,000 by 1/3 of the fair market value of one share of our common stock on the date of such Board of Directors meeting, with the resulting quotient rounded up or down to the nearest 50 shares.
In September 2007, the Board of Directors eliminated the annual payment of options for 2008 and all future years. As of December 31, 2013, 18,000 restricted shares and 81,100 options were outstanding under the Directors Plan.   
  The Union Pacific Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (2001 Plan) was approved by the shareholders in April 2001. The 2001 Plan reserved
24,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in the form of non-qualified options, incentive stock options, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards. Non-employee
directors were not eligible for awards under the 2001 Plan. As of December 31, 2013, 6,804 options were outstanding under the 2001 Plan. We no longer grant any stock options or other stock or unit awards under this plan.   
  The Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (2004 Plan) was approved by shareholders in April 2004. The 2004 Plan reserved 42,000,000
shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any shares subject to awards made under previous plans that were outstanding on April 16, 2004, and became available for regrant pursuant to the terms of the 2004 Plan. Under the 2004 Plan,
non-qualified options, stock appreciation rights, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under the
2004 Plan. As of December 31, 2013, 3,633,693 options and 2,799,030 retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2004 Plan. We no longer grant any stock options or other stock or unit awards under this plan.   
  The Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (2013 Plan) was approved by shareholders in May 2013. The 2013 Plan reserved 39,000,000
shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any shares subject to awards made under previous plans as of February 28, 2013, that are subsequently cancelled, expired, forfeited or otherwise not issued under previous plans. Under the 2013 Plan,
non-qualified options, incentive stock options, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under the 2013
Plan. As of December 31, 2013, only 1,064 retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2013 Plan.      Pursuant to the
above plans 39,787,448; 32,168,520; and 32,374,343 shares of our common stock were authorized and available for grant at December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.       Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units.
We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted.
Information regarding stock-based compensation appears in the table below:       
 
         57   

Table of Contents  

    Stock Options    We estimate the fair value of our stock option awards using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The table below shows the annual weighted-average assumptions used for valuation purposes:       
    The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant; the dividend yield is
calculated as the ratio of dividends paid per share of common stock to the stock price on the date of grant; the expected life is based on historical and expected exercise behavior; and volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock
price over the expected life of the option.      A summary of stock option activity during 2013 is presented below:   
   
    Stock options are granted at the closing price on the date of grant, have ten-year contractual terms, and vest no
later than three years from the date of grant. None of the stock options outstanding at December 31, 2013 are subject to performance or market-based vesting conditions.      At December 31, 2013, there was $17 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1 year. Additional
information regarding stock option exercises appears in the table below:       
 
         58   

Table of Contents  

    Retention Awards    The fair value of retention awards is based on the closing price of the
stock on the grant date. Dividends and dividend equivalents are paid to participants during the vesting periods.      Changes in our
retention awards during 2013 were as follows:       
    Retention awards are granted at no cost to the employee or non-employee director and vest over periods lasting up
to four years. At December 31, 2013, there was $71 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years.   
   Performance Retention Awards    In February 2013, our Board of Directors approved performance stock unit grants. Other than different
performance targets, the basic terms of these performance stock units are identical to those granted in February 2011 and February 2012, including using annual return on invested capital (ROIC) as the performance measure. We define ROIC as net
operating profit adjusted for interest expense (including interest on the present value of operating leases) and taxes on interest divided by average invested capital adjusted for the present value of operating leases.   
  Stock units awarded to selected employees under these grants are subject to continued employment for 37 months and the attainment of certain levels
of ROIC. We expense the fair value of the units that are probable of being earned based on our forecasted ROIC over the 3-year performance period. We measure the fair value of these performance stock units based upon the closing price of the
underlying common stock as of the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated future dividends. Dividend equivalents are paid to participants only after the units are earned.   
  The assumptions used to calculate the present value of estimated future dividends related to the February 2013 grant were as follows:   
   
    Changes in our performance retention awards during 2013 were as follows:   
   
    At December 31, 2013, there was $39 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested
performance retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years. This expense is subject to achievement of the ROIC levels established for the performance stock unit grants.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

    5. Retirement Plans        Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits        Pension Plans    We provide defined
benefit retirement income to eligible non-union employees through qualified and non-qualified (supplemental) pension plans. Qualified and non-qualified pension benefits are based on years of service and the highest compensation during the latest
years of employment, with specific reductions made for early retirements.       Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB)    We provide
medical and life insurance benefits for eligible retirees. These benefits are funded as medical claims and life insurance premiums are paid.       Funded
Status       We are required by GAAP to separately recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of our pension and OPEB plans as an
asset or liability. The funded status represents the difference between the projected benefit obligation (PBO) and the fair value of the plan assets. Our non-qualified (supplemental) pension plan is unfunded by design. The PBO of the pension plans
is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants, including the effect of assumed future compensation increases. The PBO of the OPEB plan is equal to the accumulated benefit obligation, as the present value of the OPEB
liabilities is not affected by compensation increases. Plan assets are measured at fair value. We use a December 31 measurement date for plan assets and obligations for all our retirement plans.   
  Changes in our PBO and plan assets were as follows for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 consist of:

60   

Table of Contents  

   Pre-tax amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of December 31,
2013 and 2012 consist of:       
    Pre-tax changes recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss) during 2013, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:
      
    Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) expected to be amortized into net periodic cost
(benefit) during 2014:       
     Underfunded Accumulated Benefit Obligation    The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) is the present
value of benefits earned to date, assuming no future compensation growth. The underfunded accumulated benefit obligation represents the difference between the ABO and the fair value of plan assets. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the
non-qualified (supplemental) plan ABO was $302 million and $331 million, respectively. The following table discloses only the PBO, ABO, and fair value of plan assets for pension plans where the accumulated benefit obligation is in excess of the fair
value of the plan assets as of December 31:       
    The ABO for all defined benefit pension plans was $3.2 billion and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

    Assumptions    The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit
obligations at December 31:       
     Expense    
  Both pension and OPEB expense are determined based upon the annual service cost of benefits (the actuarial cost of benefits earned during a period)
and the interest cost on those liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period.
This practice is intended to reduce year-to-year volatility in pension expense, but it can have the effect of delaying the recognition of differences between actual returns on assets and expected returns based on long-term rate of return
assumptions. Differences in actual experience in relation to assumptions are not recognized in net income immediately, but are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and, if necessary, amortized as pension or OPEB expense.   
  The components of our net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) were as follows for the years ended December 31:   
   
     Assumptions    The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine expense were as follows for
the years ended December 31:       
    The discount rate was based on a yield curve of high quality corporate bonds with cash flows matching our
plans  expected benefit payments. The expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into account current and expected market conditions. The actual return on pension plan assets, net of
fees, was approximately 17% in 2013, 13% in 2012, and 2% in 2011.      Assumed health care cost trend rates have an effect on the expense
and liabilities reported for health care plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate is based on historical rates and expected market conditions. The 2014 assumed health care cost trend rate for employees under 65 is 6.64%. It is
  
         62   

Table of Contents  

assumed the rate will decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2028 and will remain at that level. A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have
the following effects on OPEB:       

Millions     
      
   One % pt.  Increase    

One % pt.  Decrease    

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  1    

$  
  (1)   

Effect on accumulated benefit obligation   

15    

(13)   
       
     Cash Contributions       The following table details our cash contributions for the qualified pension plans and the benefit payments for the non-qualified (supplemental) pension and OPEB plans:   
   
    Our policy with respect to funding the qualified plans is to fund at least the minimum required by law and not more
than the maximum amount deductible for tax purposes. All contributions made to the qualified pension plans in 2013 were voluntary and were made with cash generated from operations.   
  The non-qualified pension and OPEB plans are not funded and are not subject to any minimum regulatory funding requirements. Benefit payments for
each year represent supplemental pension payments and claims paid for medical and life insurance. We anticipate our 2014 supplemental pension and OPEB payments will be made from cash generated from operations.   
   Benefit Payments       The following table details expected
benefit payments for the years 2014 through 2023:       
     Asset Allocation Strategy    
  Our pension plan asset allocation at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and target allocation for 2014, are as follows:   
   
    The investment strategy for pension plan assets is to maintain a broadly diversified portfolio designed to achieve
our target average long-term rate of return of 7.5%. While we believe we can achieve a long-term average rate of return of 7.5%, we cannot be certain that the portfolio will perform to our expectations. Assets are strategically allocated among
equity, debt, and other investments in order to achieve a   
         63   

Table of Contents  

diversification level that reduces fluctuations in investment returns. Asset allocation target ranges for equity, debt, and other portfolios are evaluated at least every three years with the
assistance of an independent consulting firm. Actual asset allocations are monitored monthly, and rebalancing actions are executed at least quarterly, if needed.      The pension plan investments are held in a Master Trust. The majority of pension plan assets are invested in equity securities because equity portfolios have historically provided higher returns than debt and other
asset classes over extended time horizons and are expected to do so in the future. Correspondingly, equity investments also entail greater risks than other investments. Equity risks are balanced by investing a significant portion of the plans 
assets in high quality debt securities. The average credit rating of the debt portfolio exceeded A+ as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. The debt portfolio is also broadly diversified and invested primarily in U.S. Treasury, mortgage, and
corporate securities. The weighted-average maturity of the debt portfolio was 12 years at both December 31, 2013 and 2012.      The
investment of pension plan assets in securities issued by UPC is explicitly prohibited by the plan for both the equity and debt portfolios, other than through index fund holdings.       Fair Value Measurements       The pension plan assets are valued at fair value. The following is a
description of the valuation methodologies used for the investments measured at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.   
   Temporary Cash Investments    These investments consist of U.S. dollars and foreign currencies held in master trust accounts at The
Northern Trust Company. Foreign currencies held are reported in terms of U.S. dollars based on currency exchange rates readily available in active markets. These temporary cash investments are classified as Level 1 investments.   
   Registered Investment Companies    Registered Investment Companies are real estate investments, non-U.S. stock investments, and bond
investments registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The real estate investments and non-U.S. stock investments are traded actively on public exchanges. The share prices for these investments are published at the close of each
business day. Holdings of real estate investments and non-U.S. stock investments are classified as Level 1 investments. The bond investments are not traded publicly, but the underlying assets (stocks and bonds) held in these funds are traded on
active markets and the prices for these assets are readily observable. Holdings in bond investments are classified as Level 2 investments.       U.S. Government Securities    Federal Government Securities consist of bills, notes, bonds, and other fixed income securities issued directly by the U.S. Treasury or by government-sponsored enterprises.
These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Federal Government Securities are classified as Level 2 investments.   
   Corporate Bonds   Debentures    Bonds and debentures consist of fixed income securities issued by U.S. and non-U.S.
corporations as well as state and local governments. These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Corporate, state, and municipal bonds and debentures are classified as Level 2
investments.       Corporate Stock    This investment category consists of common and preferred stock issued by U.S. and non-U.S.
corporations. Most common shares are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these shares are readily available. Common stock is classified as a Level 1 investment. Preferred shares included in this category are valued using a bid
evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Preferred stock is classified as a Level 2 investment.   
   Venture Capital and Buyout Partnerships    This investment category is comprised of interests in limited partnerships that invest
primarily in privately-held companies. Due to the private nature of the partnership investments, pricing inputs are not readily observable. Asset valuations are developed by the general partners that manage the partnerships. These valuations are
based on the application of public market multiples to private company cash flows, market transactions that provide valuation information for comparable companies, and other methods. Holdings of limited partnership interests are classified as Level
3 investments.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

    Real Estate Partnerships    Most of the real estate investments are partnership interests
similar to those described in the Venture Capital and Buyout Partnerships category. This category also includes real estate investments held in less commonly used structures such as private real estate investment trusts and pooled separate accounts.
Valuations for the holdings in this category are not based on readily observable inputs and are primarily derived from property appraisals. Interests in private real estate partnerships, investment trusts and pooled separate accounts are classified
as Level 3 investments.       Common Trust and Other Funds    Common trust funds are comprised of shares or units in commingled
funds that are not publicly traded. The underlying assets in these funds (U.S. stock funds, non-U.S. stock funds, commodity funds, and short term investment funds) are publicly traded on exchanges and price quotes for the assets held by these funds
are readily available. Holdings of common trust funds are classified as Level 2 investments.      This category also includes investments in
limited liability companies that invest in publicly-traded convertible securities, commodities, and other assets. The limited liability company investments are funds that invest in both long and short positions in convertible securities, stocks,
commodities, and fixed income securities. The underlying securities held by the funds are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these investments are readily available. Interests in the limited liability companies are classified as a
Level 2 investments.       Other Investments    This category includes several miscellaneous assets such as commodity hedge fund
investments and derivative securities. These investments have valuations that are based on observable inputs and are classified as Level 2 investments.   
  As of December 31, 2013, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:   

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.       
         65   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2012, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.          For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, there were no significant transfers in or out of Levels 1, 2, or 3.      The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2013:   
   
    The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements
using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2012:       
 
         66   

Table of Contents  

    Other Retirement Programs        401(k)/Thrift Plan    We provide a defined contribution plan (401(k)/thrift plan) to eligible non-union and union employees for whom we make matching contributions. We match 50 cents for each dollar
contributed by employees up to the first six percent of compensation contributed. Our plan contributions were $18 million in 2013, $15 million in 2012 and $14 million in 2011.       Railroad Retirement System    All Railroad employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement System (the System). Contributions made to the System are expensed as incurred and amounted to approximately
$670 million in 2013, $644 million in 2012, and $600 million in 2011.       Collective Bargaining Agreements    Under collective
bargaining agreements, we participate in multi-employer benefit plans that provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for eligible union employees. Premiums paid under these plans are expensed as incurred and amounted to
$57 million in 2013, $62 million in 2012, and $66 million in 2011.       6. Other Income       Other income included the following for the years ended December 31:       

[a]   
     Rental income includes $17 million related to a land lease contract settlement.       
   7. Income Taxes       Components of income tax expense were as
follows for the years ended December 31:       
 
         67   

Table of Contents  

   For the years ended December 31, reconciliations between statutory and effective tax rates are as follows:
      
    In February of 2011, Arizona enacted legislation that will decrease the state s corporate tax rate. This
reduced our deferred tax expense by $14 million in the first quarter of 2011.      Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the
expected future tax consequences of events that are reported in different periods for financial reporting and income tax purposes. The majority of our deferred tax assets relate to deductions that already have been claimed for financial reporting
purposes but not for tax purposes. The majority of our deferred tax liabilities relate to differences between the tax bases and financial reporting amounts of our land and depreciable property, due to accelerated tax depreciation (including bonus
depreciation), revaluation of assets in purchase accounting transactions, and differences in capitalization methods.      Deferred income tax
(liabilities)/assets were comprised of the following at December 31:       
    When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may
not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized based on management s judgments using
available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2013 and 2012, there were no valuation allowances.   
  Tax benefits are recognized only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount
recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits are tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement
standards.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of changes in unrecognized tax benefits liabilities/(assets) from the beginning to
the end of the reporting period is as follows:       
    We recognize interest and penalties as part of income tax expense. Total accrued liabilities for interest and
penalties were $6 million at both December 31, 2013 and 2012. Total interest and penalties recognized as part of income tax expense (benefit) were $7 million for 2013, $(4) million for 2012, and $10 million for 2011.   
  Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations have been completed and settled for all years prior to 2005, and the statute of limitations bars any
additional tax assessments. The IRS has completed their examinations and issued notices of deficiency for tax years 2005 through 2010. We disagree with many of their proposed adjustments, and we are at IRS Appeals for those years. Additionally,
several state tax authorities are examining our state income tax returns for years 2006 through 2010.      In the fourth quarter of 2013, we
reached an agreement in principle with the IRS to resolve all of the issues related to tax years 2005 through 2008, except for calculations of interest. We anticipate signing a closing agreement with the IRS within the next 12 months. Once
formalized, this agreement should have an immaterial effect on our income tax expense. Based on this agreement in principle, we made a payment of $80 million, consisting of $68 million of tax and $12 million of interest.   
  In 2012, UPC and the IRS signed a closing agreement resolving all tax matters for tax years 1999-2004. The settlement had an immaterial effect on
our income tax expense. In connection with the settlement, we received refunds of $8 million in 2013.      We do not expect our unrecognized
tax benefits to change significantly in the next 12 months. At December 31, 2013, we had a net unrecognized tax benefit liability of $59 million. Of that amount, $25 million is classified as a current liability in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position.      The portion of our unrecognized tax benefits that relates to permanent changes in tax and interest would reduce our
effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits relate to tax positions for which only the timing of the benefit is uncertain. Recognition of the tax benefits with uncertain timing would reduce our effective tax rate only
through a reduction of accrued interest and penalties. The unrecognized tax benefits that would reduce our effective tax rate are as follows:       
 
         69   

Table of Contents  

    8. Earnings Per Share       The following table provides a reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31:       
    Common stock options totaling 0.2 million, 0.5 million, and 0.6 million for 2013, 2012, and 2011,
respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices of these options exceeded the average market price of our common stock for the respective periods, and the effect of their inclusion would be
anti-dilutive.       9. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)       Reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were as follows (net of tax):       

[a]   
     The accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) reclassification components are 1) prior service cost/(benefit) and 2) net actuarial loss which are both
included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 5 Retirement Plans for additional details.           10. Accounts
Receivable       Accounts receivable includes freight and other receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance
is based upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. At December 31, 2013, and 2012, our accounts receivable were reduced by $1 million and $4 million, respectively. Receivables not expected to be
collected in one year and the associated allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial   
         70   

Table of Contents  

Position. At December 31, 2013, and 2012, receivables classified as other assets were reduced by allowances of $22 million and $33 million, respectively.   
   Receivables Securitization Facility    The Railroad maintains a $600 million, 364-day receivables securitization facility under which it
sells most of its eligible third-party receivables to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary that may subsequently transfer, without recourse an undivided interest in accounts receivable to investors.
The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.   
  The amount outstanding under the facility was $0 and $100 million at December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, respectively. The facility
was supported by $1.1 billion of accounts receivable as collateral at both December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, which, as a retained interest, is included in accounts receivable, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position.      The outstanding amount the Railroad is allowed to maintain under the facility, with a maximum of $600 million, may
fluctuate based on the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by business volumes and credit risks, including receivables payment quality measures such as default and dilution ratios. If default or dilution ratios increase one
percent, the allowable outstanding amount under the facility would not materially change.      The costs of the receivables securitization
facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The costs of the receivables securitization facility are
included in interest expense and were $5 million, $3 million and $4 million for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.      In July 2013, the
$600 million receivables securitization facility was renewed for an additional 364-day period at comparable terms and conditions.       11. Properties
      The following tables list the major categories of property and equipment, as well as the weighted-average estimated useful life for
each category (in years):       

[a]   
     Other roadway includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.       
         71   

Table of Contents  

[a]   
     Other roadway includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.       
   Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type
assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers.
Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service
lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross
tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method
of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset
strategies, or other factors.      We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies.
We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following
factors:       

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. For all other depreciable
assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from   
         72   

Table of Contents  

the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.   
  Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of
business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated
useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates
inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and
the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our
depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.      For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is
unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not
part of our railroad operations.      When we purchase an asset, we capitalize all costs necessary to make the asset ready for its intended
use. However, many of our assets are self-constructed. A large portion of our capital expenditures is for replacement of existing track assets and other road properties, which is typically performed by our employees, and for track line expansion and
other capacity projects. Costs that are directly attributable to capital projects (including overhead costs) are capitalized. Direct costs that are capitalized as part of self-constructed assets include material, labor, and work equipment. Indirect
costs are capitalized if they clearly relate to the construction of the asset.      General and administrative expenditures are expensed as
incurred. Normal repairs and maintenance are also expensed as incurred, while costs incurred that extend the useful life of an asset, improve the safety of our operations or improve operating efficiency are capitalized. These costs are allocated
using appropriate statistical bases. Total expense for repairs and maintenance incurred was $2.3 billion for 2013, $2.1 billion for 2012, and $2.2 billion for 2011.      Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. Amortization expense is
computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the period of the related lease.       12.
Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities        
 
         73   

Table of Contents  

    13. Financial Instruments        Strategy and Risk    We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances for other than trading purposes to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel
prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of
effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as
our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from
favorable interest rate and fuel price movements.       Market and Credit Risk    We address market risk related to derivative
financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for
counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2013, and 2012, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.   
   Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges    We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed
and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings.
We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing
outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.      Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge
the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial
Statements. As of December 31, 2013, and 2012, we had no interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.       Interest Rate Cash Flow
Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At both December 31, 2013, and 2012, we had reductions of $1 million recorded as an
accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2013, and 2012, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.   
   Earnings Impact    Our use of derivative financial instruments had no impact on pre-tax income for the years ended December 31,
2013, 2012, and 2011.       Fair Value of Financial Instruments    The fair value of our short- and long-term debt was estimated
using a market value price model, which utilizes applicable U.S. Treasury rates along with current market quotes on comparable debt securities. All of the inputs used to determine the fair market value of the Corporation s long-term debt are
Level 2 inputs and obtained from an independent source. At December 31, 2013, the fair value of total debt was $10.2 billion, approximately $0.6 billion more than the carrying value. At December 31, 2012, the fair value of total debt was
$11.1 billion, approximately $2.1 billion more than the carrying value. The fair value of the Corporation s debt is a measure of its current value under present market conditions. It does not impact the financial statements under current
accounting rules. At December 31, 2013, and 2012, approximately $163 million and $203 million, respectively, of debt securities contained call provisions that allow us to retire the debt instruments prior to final maturity, with the payment of
fixed call premiums, or in certain cases, at par. The fair value of our cash equivalents approximates their carrying value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

    14. Debt       Total debt as of December 31, 2013, and 2012, net of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, is summarized below:       
     Debt Maturities    The following table presents aggregate debt maturities as of December 31, 2013,
excluding market value adjustments:       
    As of December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, we have reclassified as long-term debt $0 and $100
million, respectively, of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflects our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis.
      Equipment Encumbrances    Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $2.9 billion at both December 31, 2013, and
2012 served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire such railroad equipment.   
  As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying
indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the
mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds.   
   Credit Facilities    On December 31, 2013, we had $1.8 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the
facility), which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2013. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates
available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon credit ratings for our senior unsecured debt. The facility matures
in 2015 under a four year term and requires the Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012 (and at all times during the year), we were in
compliance with this covenant.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

   The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes,
among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2013, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $42.4 billion of
debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $9.9 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors
beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision
that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.      During 2013, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper, and at December 31, 2013, and 2012, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper
balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility.   
   Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section
above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $16.3 billion and $15.1 billion at December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively.
      Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings    We filed an automatic shelf registration statement that
became effective on February 8, 2013. The Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to $4 billion of debt securities, replacing the $1.4 billion of authority remaining under our shelf registration filed in February 2010. SEC rules
require UPC, a large accelerated filer, to file a new shelf registration statement every three years. Under the current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or
warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt
securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.      During 2013, we issued the following
unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:       
    We used the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common
stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2013, we had remaining authority to issue up to $2.85 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.
     In May 2012, we borrowed $100 million under a 4-year-term bank loan (the loan). The loan has a floating rate based on London Interbank
Offered Rates, plus a spread, and is prepayable in whole or in part without a premium prior to maturity. The agreement documenting the loan has provisions similar to our revolving credit facility, including identical debt-to-net-worth covenant and
change of control provisions and similar customary default provisions. The agreement does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers, or any other provision that would require us to post collateral.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

    Subsequent Event    In 2014, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities
under our current shelf registration:       
    Proceeds from this offering are for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant
to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. As of February 7, 2014, we had remaining authority from our Board of Directors to issue up to $1.85 billion of debt securities under our shelf
registration.       Debt Exchange    On August 21, 2013, we exchanged $1,170 million of various outstanding notes and
debentures due between 2016 and 2040 (Existing Notes) for $439 million of 3.646% notes (New 2024 Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $700 million of 4.821% notes (New 2044 Notes) due February 1, 2044, plus cash consideration of approximately
$280 million in addition to $8 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. In accordance with ASC 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the
exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is
being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of the New 2024 Notes and the New 2044 Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than
the debt holders totaled approximately $9 million and were included in interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2013.      The
following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged:       
     Debt Redemptions    On May 14, 2013, we redeemed all $40 million of our outstanding 5.65% Port of
Corpus Christi Authority Revenue Refunding Bonds due December 1, 2022. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $1 million in the second quarter of 2013.   
  On November 30, 2012, we redeemed all $450 million of our outstanding 5.45% notes due January 31, 2013. The redemption resulted in an
early extinguishment charge of $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.      On April 28, 2012, we redeemed all $100 million of our
outstanding 5.70% Tooele County, Utah Hazardous Waste Treatment Revenue Bonds due November 1, 2026. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $2 million in the second quarter of 2012.   
         77   

Table of Contents  

   On December 19, 2011, we redeemed the remaining $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15,
2012, and all $300 million of our outstanding 6.125% notes due January 15, 2012. The redemptions resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.   
   Receivables Securitization Facility    As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we recorded $0 and $100 million, respectively, as secured
debt under our receivables securitization facility. (See further discussion of our receivables securitization facility in Note 10).       15. Variable
Interest Entities       We have entered into various lease transactions in which the structure of the leases contain variable interest
entities (VIEs). These VIEs were created solely for the purpose of doing lease transactions (principally involving railroad equipment and facilities, including our headquarters building) and have no other activities, assets or liabilities outside of
the lease transactions. Within these lease arrangements, we have the right to purchase some or all of the assets at fixed prices. Depending on market conditions, fixed-price purchase options available in the leases could potentially provide benefits
to us; however, these benefits are not expected to be significant.      We maintain and operate the assets based on contractual obligations
within the lease arrangements, which set specific guidelines consistent within the railroad industry. As such, we have no control over activities that could materially impact the fair value of the leased assets. We do not hold the power to direct
the activities of the VIEs and, therefore, do not control the ongoing activities that have a significant impact on the economic performance of the VIEs. Additionally, we do not have the obligation to absorb losses of the VIEs or the right to receive
benefits of the VIEs that could potentially be significant to the VIEs.      We are not considered to be the primary beneficiary and do not
consolidate these VIEs because our actions and decisions do not have the most significant effect on the VIE s performance and our fixed-price purchase price options are not considered to be potentially significant to the VIEs. The future
minimum lease payments associated with the VIE leases totaled $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2013.       16. Leases    
  We lease certain locomotives, freight cars, and other property. The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2013 and
2012 included $2,486 million, net of $1,092 million of accumulated depreciation, and $2,467 million, net of $966 million of accumulated depreciation, respectively, for properties held under capital leases. A charge to income resulting from the
depreciation for assets held under capital leases is included within depreciation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Future minimum lease payments for operating and capital leases with initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms
in excess of one year as of December 31, 2013, were as follows:       
    Approximately 94% of capital lease payments relate to locomotives. Rent expense for operating leases with terms
exceeding one month was $618 million in 2013, $631 million in 2012, and $637 million in 2011. When cash rental payments are not made on a straight-line basis, we recognize variable rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals and sub-rentals are not significant.   
         78   

Table of Contents  

    17. Commitments and Contingencies        Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our
consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We
do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into
account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.       Personal Injury    The cost of personal
injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted
claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety
of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.      Our personal injury liability is not discounted to
present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 92% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and approximately 8% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2013. Because of the
uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $294 million to $322 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as
no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation.      Our personal
injury liability activity was as follows:       
     Asbestos    We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other
parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability
for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:       

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
  Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.
Approximately 18% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 82% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2013. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is
reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $131 million to $141 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.
  
         79   

Table of Contents  

   Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:   
   
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2013, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We
have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2013, and 2012. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such
as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if
strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with
respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.       Environmental Costs    We are subject to federal, state, and
local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 268 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 33 sites that are the
subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate
environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.      When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We
expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash
payments is not fixed or readily determinable. At December 31, 2013, and 2012, none of our environmental liability was discounted, while less than 1% of our environmental liability was discounted at 2.0% at December 31, 2011.   
  Our environmental liability activity was as follows:       

[a]   
     Payments include $25 million to resolve the Omaha Lead Site liability.      
  The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any
anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for
remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and
quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current
obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.   
         80   

Table of Contents  

    Insurance    The Company has a consolidated, wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary (the
captive), that provides insurance coverage for certain risks including FELA claims and property coverage which are subject to reinsurance. The captive entered into annual reinsurance treaty agreements that insure workers compensation, general
liability, auto liability and FELA risk. The captive cedes a portion of its FELA exposure through the treaty and assumes a proportionate share of the entire risk. The captive receives direct premiums, which are netted against the Company s
premium costs in other expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. The treaty agreements provide for certain protections against the risk of treaty participants  non-performance, and we do not believe our exposure to treaty
participants  non-performance is material at this time. In the event the Company leaves the reinsurance program, the Company is not relieved of its primary obligation to the policyholders for activity prior to the termination of the treaty
agreements. We record both liabilities and reinsurance receivables using an actuarial analysis based on historical experience in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   
   Guarantees    At December 31, 2013, and 2012, we were contingently liable for $299 million and $307 million in guarantees. We have
recorded a liability of $1 million and $2 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed
obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not
expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.       Indemnities    Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the
nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the
total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.   
   Gain Contingency    UPRR and Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines (SFPP, a subsidiary of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.) currently are
engaged in a proceeding to resolve the fair market rent payable to UPRR under a 10-year agreement commencing on January 1, 2004, for pipeline easements on UPRR rights-of-way ( Union Pacific Railroad Company vs. Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines,
Inc., SFPP, L.P., Kinder Morgan Operating L.P.  D  Kinder Morgan G.P., Inc., et al., Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles, filed July 28, 2004 ). In February 2007, a trial began to resolve this
issue, and, on September 28, 2011, the judge issued a tentative Statement of Decision, which concluded that SFPP owes back rent to UPRR for the years 2004 through 2011. On May 29, 2012, the court entered judgment, awarding UPRR back rent
and prejudgment interest. SFPP is appealing the final judgment. A favorable final judgment may materially affect our results of operations in the period of any monetary recoveries; however, due to the uncertainty regarding the amount and timing of
any recovery, including the outcome of SFPP s appeal of this judgment or any subsequent proceeding, we consider this a gain contingency and do not reflect any amounts in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31,
2013.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

    18. Share Repurchase Program       Effective April 1, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 40 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2014, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of
December 31, 2013, we repurchased a total of $9.3 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs. The table below represents shares repurchased under this repurchase program.   
   
    On November 21, 2013, our Board of Directors approved the early renewal of the share repurchase program,
authorizing the repurchase of up to 60 million shares of common stock by December 31, 2017. The new authorization was effective January 1, 2014, and replaces the previous authorization, which expired on December 31, 2013, three
months earlier than its original expiration date.      Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide
the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand.
Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.       19. Selected Quarterly Data
(Unaudited)        
    Per share net income for the four quarters combined may not equal the per share net income for the year due to rounding.
  
         82   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure        None.   
     Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures        As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Corporation s
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rules
13a-15 and 15d-15. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired
control objectives. Based upon that evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that
information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO
and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.      Additionally, the CEO and CFO determined that there
were no changes to the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) during the last fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect,
the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

      MANAGEMENT S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
      The management of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)). The Corporation s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Corporation s
management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.      All internal
control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   
  The Corporation s management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2013. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992).  Based on our assessment,
management believes that, as of December 31, 2013, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.      The Corporation s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on
the next page.      February 6, 2014   
         84   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Pacific Corporation:      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework (1992)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2013, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013 of the Corporation and our report dated February 7, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement
schedule.         

Omaha, Nebraska      February 7,
2014   
         85   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9B.  Other Information     
  None.        PART III     
     Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance     

(a)  
    Directors of Registrant.         Information as to the names, ages, positions and offices with UPC, terms of office, periods of service, business experience during the past five years and certain other directorships held by each director or person
nominated to become a director of UPC is set forth in the Election of Directors segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit Committee and the independence of its members, along with information about the audit committee financial expert(s) serving on the Audit Committee, is set forth in the Audit
Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.       

(b)  
    Executive Officers of Registrant.         Information concerning the executive officers of UPC and its subsidiaries is presented in Part I of this report under Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries.

(c)  
    Section 16(a) Compliance.         Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth in the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance segment of the Proxy Statement and
is incorporated herein by reference.       

(d)  
    Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers of Registrant.      
  The Board of Directors of UPC has adopted the UPC Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers (the
Code). A copy of the Code may be found on the Internet at our website www.up.com/investors/governance. We intend to disclose any amendments to the Code or any waiver from a provision of the Code on our website.   
     Item 11.  Executive Compensation        Information concerning compensation received by our directors and our named executive officers is presented in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Summary Compensation Table, Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
Fiscal Year 2013, Outstanding Equity Awards at 2013 Fiscal Year-End, Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal Year 2013, Pension Benefits at 2013 Fiscal Year-End, Nonqualified Deferred Compensation at 2013 Fiscal Year-End, Potential Payments Upon
Termination or Change in Control and Director Compensation in Fiscal Year 2013 segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information regarding compensation of directors, including Board committee members, is
set forth in the By-Laws of UPC and the Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors, both of which are included as exhibits to this report. Information regarding the Compensation and Benefits Committee is set forth in
the Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and Compensation Committee Report segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

      Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters        Information as to the number of shares of our equity securities beneficially owned by each of our
directors and nominees for director, our named executive officers, our directors and executive officers as a group, and certain beneficial owners is set forth in the Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management segment of the Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which UPC common
stock may be issued as of December 31, 2013:       

[2]   
     Does not include the retention units or retention shares described above in footnote 1.       
     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     
  Information on related transactions is set forth in the Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. We do not have any relationship with any outside third party that would enable such a party to negotiate terms of a material transaction that may not be
available to, or available from, other parties on an arm s-length basis.      Information regarding the independence of our directors
is set forth in the Director Independence segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
     Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
  Information concerning the fees billed by our independent registered public accounting firm and the nature of services comprising the fees for each
of the two most recent fiscal years in each of the following categories: (i) audit fees, (ii) audit-related fees, (iii) tax fees, and (iv) all other fees, is set forth in the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s
Fees and Services segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit
Committee s policies and procedures pertaining to pre-approval of audit and non-audit services rendered by our independent registered public accounting firm is set forth in the Audit Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

     PART IV           Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules         

(a)  
    Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, and Exhibits:      

(1)  
    Financial Statements         The financial statements filed as part of this filing are listed on the index to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, on page 48.   

(2)  
    Financial Statement Schedules         Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts      Schedules not listed above have been
omitted because they are not applicable or not required or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, or notes thereto.   

Exhibits are listed in the exhibit index beginning on page 91. The exhibits include management contracts, compensatory plans and
arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K by Item 601 (10) (iii) of Regulation S-K.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 7   th    day of February, 2014.          UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION      By   /s/ John J. Koraleski    
        John J. Koraleski,   
        President and   
        Chief Executive Officer   
        Union Pacific Corporation   
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below, on this 7   th    day of February, 2014, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated.      PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER   
  AND DIRECTOR:             /s/ John J. Koraleski    
        John J. Koraleski,   
        President and   
        Chief Executive Officer   
        Union Pacific Corporation   
  PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:             /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
        Robert M. Knight, Jr.,   
        Executive Vice President - Finance   
        and Chief Financial Officer   
  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:             /s/ Jeffrey P. Totusek    
        Jeffrey P. Totusek,   
        Vice President and Controller       DIRECTORS:        

Andrew H. Card, Jr.*   
      
        Michael R. McCarthy*    
 
    Erroll B. Davis, Jr.*   
      
        Michael W. McConnell*    
 
    Thomas J. Donohue*   
      
        Thomas F. McLarty III*    
 
    Archie W. Dunham*   
      
        Steven R. Rogel*    
 
    Judith Richards Hope*   
      
        Jose H. Villarreal*    
 
    Charles C. Krulak*   
      
        James R. Young*    
    * By   /s/ James J. Theisen, Jr.    
          James J. Theisen, Jr., Attorney-in-fact   
         89   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
         90   

Table of Contents  

    UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Exhibit Index        

Exhibit No.    
      
     Description     

Filed with this Statement    

10(a)   
      
    Form of Performance Stock Unit Agreement dated February 6, 2014.    

10(b)   
      
    Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives dated February 6, 2014.    

10(c)   
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives dated February 6, 2014.    

10(d)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan, as amended February 6, 2014.    

10(e)   
      
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended December 16, 2013.    

12   
      
    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.    

21   
      
    List of the Corporation s significant subsidiaries and their respective states of incorporation.    

23   
      
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Consent.    

24   
      
    Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.    

31(a)   
      
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   John J.
Koraleski.    

31(b)   
      
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

32   
      
    Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   John J. Koraleski and Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

101   
      
    eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents submitted electronically: 101.INS (XBRL Instance Document), 101.SCH (XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document),
101.CAL (XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document), 101.LAB (XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document), 101.DEF (XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document) and 101.PRE (XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document). The following financial and related
information from Union Pacific Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 (filed with the SEC on February 7, 2014), is formatted in XBRL and submitted electronically herewith: (i) Consolidated
Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, (v) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Common Shareholders  Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    
 
         91   

Table of Contents  

Incorporated by Reference    

3(a)   
      
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended and restated through June 27, 2011, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the
Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.    

3(b)   
      
    By-Laws of UPC, as amended, effective May 14, 2009, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 15,
2009.    

4(a)   
      
    Indenture, dated as of December 20, 1996, between UPC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as successor to Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-18345).    

4(b)   
      
    Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1999, between UPC and The Bank of New York, as successor to JP Morgan Chase Bank, formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-75989).    

4(c)   
      
    Form of 2.250% Notes due 2019 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 10, 2014.    

4(d)   
      
    Form of 3.750% Note due 2024 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 10, 2014.    

4(e)   
      
    Form of 4.850% due 2044 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 10, 2014.    

4(f)   
      
    Form of 4.750% Note due 2043 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation s Current report on Form 8-K dated October 28,
2013.    

4(g)   
      
    Form of 2.750% Note due 2023 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 15,
2013.    

4(h)   
      
    Form of 4.250% Note due 2043 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 15,
2013.    

Certain instruments evidencing long-term indebtedness of UPC are not filed as exhibits because the total amount of securities authorized under any single such instrument
does not exceed 10% of the Corporation s total consolidated assets. UPC agrees to furnish the Commission with a copy of any such instrument upon request by the Commission.    

10(f)   
      
    Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to
the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(g)   
      
    Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(h)   
      
    Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended February 1, 2013, and March
1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    
 
         92   

Table of Contents  

10(i)   
      
    Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended February 1, 2013, and
March 1, 2013 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(j)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Executive Incentive Plan, effective May 5, 2005, amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(k)   
      
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(l)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors Plan, effective as of April 21, 2000, as amended November 16, 2006, January 30, 2007 and January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(m)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Non-Grandfathered Component), effective as of January 1, 2009 is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(n)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Grandfathered Component), as amended and restated in its
entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(o)   
      
    Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan, effective May 16, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Corporation s Form S-8 dated
May 17, 2013.    

10(p)   
      
    UPC 2004 Stock Incentive Plan amended March 1, 2013,, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(q)   
      
    UPC 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(r)   
      
    Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union Pacific Merger Co. and Southern Pacific Rail
Corporation (SP) is incorporated herein by reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(s)   
      
    Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR, Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern Pacific Transportation Company (SPT), The Denver   Rio
Grande Western Railroad Company (D RGW), St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp. (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington Northern Railroad Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe), on
the other hand, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.  33-64707).     
 
         93   

Table of Contents  

10(t)   
      
    Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between UPC, UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one hand, and BN and Santa Fe, on the other
hand, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.  33-64707).     

10(u)   
      
    The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as amended January 25, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.    

10(v)   
      
    Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.    

10(w)   
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2012.    

10(x)   
      
    Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2012.    

10(y)   
      
    Form of 2011 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2010.    

10(z)   
      
    Form of 2012 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2011.    

10(aa)   
      
    Form of 2013 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2012.    

10(bb)   
      
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Directors is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2004.    

10(cc)   
      
    Executive Incentive Plan (2005)   Deferred Compensation Program, dated December 21, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.    
 
         94   

<EX-10.(A)>
 2
 d668613dex10a.htm
 EX-10.(A)

EX-10.(a) 

Exhibit 10(a)        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS       FOR
GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the number of Stock Units specified below (the  Award ), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
in this Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and Conditions ) adopted under such Plan and described in this Grant Notice, and
the Union Pacific Corporation Long Term Plan (the  Long Term Plan ) approved and adopted by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ), each as amended from time to time.
Each Stock Unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of the Company s common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard
Terms and Conditions, and the Long Term Plan. This Award is granted pursuant to the Plan and the Long Term Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions.   

Name of
Participant:         

FIRST_NAME  LAST_NAME      
  ID: EMPLOYEE_ID          
 
        Grant
Date:         
     
    2/6/2014    
 
        Grant
Number:         
     
    OPTION_NUMBER    
 
        Maximum Number of Stock
Units subject to the Award:          The Stock Unit Target Award (amount of stock units
granted at Target is half the amount shown).  The amount of stock units shown is the  maximum  number of shares that the Participant is eligible to receive in accordance with the program design shown in the Long Term Plan Summary. The
actual number of shares paid, if any, depends on the achievement level of the applicable performance criteria.         
     
    X,XXX    

Restriction Period:         
     
    3 years    

Restriction Period Commencement Date:  

2/6/2014    

Restriction Period Termination Date:  

2/6/2017    
    By electronically accepting this Award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees
that this Award shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard Terms and Conditions, and the Long Term Plan (including, but not limited to, the Committee s discretionary authority under the Long Term Plan to
determine the number of Stock Units payable with respect to the Award). The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to
applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Stock Units via Company website or other electronic delivery.   

THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE AWARD AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE
PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.       UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR    
   PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS       These
Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Award of performance stock units granted pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which are evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these
Standard Terms and Conditions. In addition to these Standard Terms and Conditions, the performance stock units shall be subject to the terms of the Plan and the Long Term Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by
reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.        PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS

1.   
     TERMS OF PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS          Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) an award of a
number of performance stock units (the  Award  or the  Stock Units ) specified in the Grant Notice. Each Stock Unit represents the right to receive (i) one share of the Company s common stock, $2.50 par value per share
(the  Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), provided the applicable Performance Criteria
described below have been satisfied. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan, each as amended from time to time. For purposes of these
Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any Subsidiary.       

2.   
     VESTING OF PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS          The Award shall not be vested as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice and shall be forfeitable until the end of the Restriction Period, unless otherwise provided under these Standard Terms and
Conditions. After the end of the Restriction Period, subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan, and to the extent the Performance Criteria described below have been
satisfied, the Award shall become vested as of the Restriction Period Termination Date set forth in the Grant Notice with respect to that number of Stock Units determined by the Committee to be paid pursuant to the Award. Unless the Committee shall
determine otherwise, a period in which the Participant is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company shall count toward satisfaction of the Restriction Period.   

3.   
     PERFORMANCE CRITERIA          The Performance Criteria is annual Return on Invested Capital ( ROIC ). However, such Performance Criteria is of no force and effect unless and until the Company has operating income ( Operating
Income ) in one or more of fiscal years 2014, 2015 or 2016. The definition and calculation of annual ROIC and Operating Income shall be determined in accordance with the Long Term Plan.   
  The Participant may earn Stock Units during the Restriction Period based on the Company s satisfaction of the Performance
Criteria in accordance with the ROIC targets and payout schedule approved by the Committee, subject to Section 6(ii) hereof and the Committee s discretion under   
         2   

the Long Term Plan to determine the number of Stock Units payable with respect to the Award. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2014, the Participant may earn up to one-third of the
Stock Unit Target Award as shown on the Grant Notice based on the first fiscal year (2014) of ROIC performance achieved. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, the Participant may earn up to a total of two-thirds of the Stock Unit
Target Award as shown on the Grant Notice (less any Stock Units earned in the first fiscal year) based on the average of the first two fiscal years (2014 and 2015) of ROIC performance achieved. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016, the
Participant may earn up to two times the Stock Unit Target Award as shown on the Grant Notice (less any Stock Units earned in the first two fiscal years) based on the average of all three fiscal years (2014, 2015, and 2016) of ROIC performance
achieved.       

4.   
     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS          For all dividend record dates occurring while the Participant is employed and between the date that Stock Units are earned and the earlier of the date the Stock Units are forfeited or the date that shares are
delivered to the Participant, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those Stock Units which have been earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof. For this purpose, Stock Units are earned in accordance
with Section 3 hereof for a fiscal year on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing the ROIC performance level achieved for such fiscal year, provided the Company has Operating Income in that fiscal year, or, for fiscal years 2015
and 2016, the previous fiscal year. Notwithstanding the foregoing:      (i)  If the Participant earns
Stock Units in accordance with Section 3 hereof that are payable to the Participant as specified in Section 6(ii) hereof, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant, the Participant s estate or beneficiary, as
applicable, shall further receive Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such Stock Units for all dividend record dates occurring after the Participant is Separated from Service or determined to be disabled under the provisions of an
applicable long-term disability plan of the Company, through the date the shares are delivered as provided in and subject to the adjustment described in Section 6(ii) hereof; and   
  (ii)  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if the Participant remains continuously employed with
the Company, but is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with an applicable leave of absence policy adopted by the Company, for all dividend record dates occurring while the Participant is on such leave of absence and
between the date that Stock Units are earned and the earlier of the date the Stock Units are forfeited or the date that shares are delivered to the Participant, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those
Stock Units which have been earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof.      Any such Dividend Equivalent Payments
shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments (such date to be on or after the date the corresponding Stock Units are earned); provided, however, that (i) if the Participant has
elected to defer receipt of such Stock Units in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such earned and
deferred Stock Units which relate to dividends paid on and after the date of the deferral of such Stock Units (i.e., the date that the Stock Units would have been payable to the Participant under the Plan had such Stock Units not been deferred under
the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan) shall be reinvested as part of the Award Account under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, and shall be deferred for payment at the same time as the Award Account is paid under the terms of
the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan and (ii) if such Dividend Equivalent Payments relate to Stock Units for which payment is delayed as described in Section 6(i) hereof, on the date such Stock Units are paid.   
         3   

5.   
     RESTRICTIONS          Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, the following restrictions apply to the Stock Units:      (i)         The Participant shall be entitled to delivery of the shares of Common Stock as specified in Section 6 hereof;   
  (ii)        None of the Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or
otherwise encumbered or disposed of;      (iii)      The Participant s right to receive
Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earlier of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company, except as provided in Section 4(ii) and Section 6(ii)
hereof, or the Participant s receipt of Common Stock under Section 6 hereof;   
  (iv)     All of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock
Units and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company in the event of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company without having a right to delivery of shares of Common
Stock under Section 6 hereof; and      (v)     Any Stock Units not earned as of the
Restriction Period Termination Date shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company.   

6.   
     ACCELERATION/LAPSE OF RESTRICTION PERIOD          Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, the Stock Units shall be treated as follows:      (i)        Following the end of the Restriction Period and provided the Participant has remained continuously employed by the Company through the Restriction Period
Termination Date and absent any Change of Control before the Restriction Period Termination Date in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units, shares of Common Stock equal to
the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on the achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s third
party stock plan administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2014, 2015 or 2016. The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(i) shall be made to
the Participant within thirty (30) days of the Restriction Period Termination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period when the Company determines
that the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or
other regulatory requirements and (B) the date on which shares are delivered to the Participant (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate to calculate and
address tax withholding and/or other administrative matters; provided, however, that delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units (and any Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units or, if such Dividend Equivalent Payments are
invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) shall in no event be later than the last day of the calendar year that includes the Restriction Period
Termination Date.      (ii)        If the Participant: (A) has a Separation
from Service with the Company due to (1) death or (2) retiring after having attained age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s pension plan ( Retirement ) (including a Separation from Service
described in Section   
         4   

6(iv) hereof on or after the date the Participant satisfies the age and service criteria for Retirement); or (B) is determined to be disabled under the provisions of an applicable long-term
disability plan of the Company ( Disability ) (each a  Lapse Event ), prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date and prior to a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not
assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units, the Participant, the Participant s estate or the Participant s beneficiary, as applicable (each a  Payee ), shall be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock equal to the number
of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on the average of all three fiscal years (2014, 2015 and 2016) of the applicable Performance Criteria achieved prorated based on the number of fiscal years in the Restriction
Period during which the Participant remained continuously employed by the Company until September 30   th    of that year ( e.g. , if the Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2014 then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 33 1/3% of the earned Stock Units, if the
Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2015 then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 66 2/3% of the earned Stock Units and if the Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2016 then the
Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 100% of the earned Stock Units), provided that the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2014, 2015 or 2016. The Payee shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments
respecting all Stock Units earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof through the end of the fiscal year ending before the Participant s Lapse Event for all dividend record dates occurring after the Participant s Lapse Event (or, if later,
the date the Stock Units for a fiscal year are earned) and thereafter during the Restriction Period until the Payee receives Common Stock under this Section 6(ii), notwithstanding the Participant s Lapse Event. The Committee shall adjust the
total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to the Payee and/or the total number of shares of Common Stock paid to the Payee following the end of the Restriction Period so that the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to
the Payee does not exceed the amount that would have been made based on the number of Stock Units which are earned as set forth in this Section 6(ii). The payment of the Stock Units earned under this Section 6(ii) shall be made within thirty (30)
days of the Restriction Period Termination Date, but in no event later than the last day of the calendar year that includes the Restriction Period Termination Date. A Participant who has a Lapse Event and subsequently returns to employment with the
Company before the end of the Restriction Period shall not be eligible to earn additional Stock Units beyond those described in this Section 6(ii).   
  (iii)        Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, prior to the
termination of the Participant s employment for any reason, in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units and such Change in Control occurs prior to the Restriction Period
Termination Date, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of each fiscal year ending prior to the
occurrence of such Change in Control and through the end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s third
party administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2014, 2015 or 2016 and further provided that any such calendar year precedes the calendar year in which the
Change in Control occurs. No additional Stock Units granted as part of the Award may be earned following the Change in Control. Shares of Common Stock to which the Participant is entitled pursuant to this Section 6(iii) shall be delivered as
soon as practicable following the date on which the Change in Control occurs, but in no event later than two and one-half
(2   1   /   2   ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Change in Control occurs.       (iv)        If the Participant incurs a Separation from Service because such Participant s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company (other than a
termination as a result of the Participant s Disability, cause or gross misconduct as determined by the Committee), within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction
assumes or continues the outstanding Stock Units and such   
         5   

Separation from Service occurs prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date and prior to the Participant having satisfied the age and service criteria for Retirement prior to such Separation
from Service, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of each fiscal year ending prior to the occurrence
of such Change in Control and through the end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s third party
administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2014, 2015 or 2016 and further provided that any such calendar year precedes the calendar year in which the Change
in Control occurs. The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(iv) shall be made as soon as practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service, but in no event later than two and one-half (2 ) months following the end
of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Separation from Service occurs.   
  (v)        Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6, all of
the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless the Participant remains in the continuous employment of the Company (such
continuous employment shall, for this purpose, include a period of time during which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company) until the earlier of the Restriction Period
Termination Date or a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, if it finds that the circumstances in
the particular case so warrant, allow a Participant who ceases to be so continuously employed and has a Separation from Service prior to the earlier of the Restriction Period Termination Date or such Change in Control to retain some or all of the
Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of the fiscal year ending prior to the year in which the Participant incurs such Separation from Service,
provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2014, 2015 or 2016 and further provided that any such fiscal year precedes the year in which the Participant Separates from Service. In such event, the payment of the Stock
Units under this Section 6(v) shall be as soon as practicable following the date on which the Committee authorizes such payment, but in no event later than two and one-half (2   1   /   2   ) 
months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs.       (vi)        Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant may elect to defer receipt of payment of shares underlying the Stock Units to the extent and according to the
terms, if any, provided by the Deferred Compensation Plan. If the Participant does so elect to defer payment of shares underlying the Stock Units, such payments will be made in accordance with the Deferred Compensation Plan.   
    PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY        By electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following.   

7.   
     CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS          The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets,
business or affairs of the Company or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being
known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   
         6   

8 .  
     TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS       
  The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or has had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of
the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial
information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans;
succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints
regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. The Participant agrees that any unauthorized disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets
would constitute gross misconduct.       

9.   
     AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION       
  The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources
officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer
or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any
electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       

10.   
     PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC          (i)  The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 12, this
would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the Company. The
Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant
agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another railroad he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her intention to accept such employment
or affiliation. The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential
Information or Trade Secrets.      (ii)  If the Sr. HR Officer and the Participant are unable to reach agreement
on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. The Participant also agrees that he or she will not begin to work for another person
or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 12, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the
Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       
    The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 9 or 10 above, he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of
Common Stock (or the market value of any shares of Common Stock received)   
         7   

which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply with any such
promise made in Section 9 or 10, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent)
to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set
off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to
him or her under the Award absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 9 and 10 above.        NO
DIRECT COMPETITION        By electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to
the following.       

12 .    
     NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION       
  The Participant agrees that for a period of one year following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly
or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar
in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with
the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation),
guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation
of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way
of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 12 is not intended to prevent the
Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Award absent his or her
agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 12.       

13 .    
     ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF          The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 9, 10 and 12. The
Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints
is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she
are bound by such restraints. The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 9, 10 and 12, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. The Participant therefore agrees that the
Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without   
         8   

limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 11 and 14, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants. The Participant and the Company
further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 9, 10 and 12 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too
great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.       

14 .    
     VIOLATION OF PROMISES          The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 12, then he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market
value thereof) granted to him or her by the Grant Notice which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with
the promises he or she made in Section 12. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The
Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that
might be owed to him or her by the Company.        GENERAL     
   
    The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Award or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to
his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act,
except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 or 12 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under
federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of
contract and the law of tort. The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this
agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the
Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 or 12 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or
any of its affiliates. The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may
grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the
arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless
otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.
  
         9   

If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in
scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect.   

17 .    
     CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION          All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the
conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all
claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions. Sections 10(ii) and 12 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
   
    The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.   

19.   
     RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES          The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any
Common Stock issued in respect of vested Stock Units, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and
other holders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.       
    The Company shall not deliver shares in respect of any Stock Units unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding obligations. Unless the Participant
pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the delivery of the Common Stock, withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock issuable in connection with the vesting
of the Stock Units (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company). The Participant acknowledges that the Company shall have the
right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the delivery of the Stock Units from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages).   

21.   
     NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARD          The Participant understands, acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise directly or indirectly encumbered or
disposed of prior to the payment of the Common Stock to the Participant as provided in Section 6 hereof.       

22.   
     RESTATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL RESULTS       
         10   

By electronically accepting this Award, the Participant agrees that he or she will
return such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company as determined by the Committee in its exclusive discretion, which shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company and the Participant. The Committee will
exercise its discretion only in the event that the Committee s certification of the level of ROIC was based on financial results subsequently revised by a restatement of such financial results and only to the extent that such restated financial
results would have entitled the Participant to a lesser award of Common Stock under the Performance Criteria.       

23.   
     LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS       
  Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the
Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan, the Long Term Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and Conditions except as
to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon vesting of the Stock Units. Nothing in the Plan, the Long Term Plan, the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed
pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason.   

24.   
     OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED          The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Stock Units. Any prior agreements,
commitments or negotiations concerning the Stock Units are superseded.   
         11   

</EX-10.(A)>

<EX-10.(B)>
 3
 d668613dex10b.htm
 EX-10.(B)

EX-10.(b) 

Exhibit 10(b)        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   STOCK UNITS       FOR GOOD AND
VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the number of Stock Units specified below (the  Award ), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this
Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and Conditions ) adopted under such Plan described in this Grant Notice, and, as
applicable, the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan (the  Key Employee Continuity Plan ), each as amended from time to time. Each Stock Unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of the
Company s common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions. This Award is granted pursuant to the Plan and, as applicable, the
Key Employee Continuity Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions.       

Name of
Participant:   

FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME      
  ID: EMPLOYEE_ID          
 
        Grant Date:  

2/6/2014          
 
        Grant
Number:         

OPTION_NUMBER          
 
        Number of Stock Units
subject to the Award:         

X,XXX          
 
        Restriction
Period:         

4 years          
 
        Restriction Period
Commencement Date:         

2/6/2014          

Restriction Period Termination Date:          

2/6/2018          
    By electronically accepting this Award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees
that this Award shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard Terms and Conditions and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan (including, but not limited to, the Key Employee Continuity Plan s requirement
that the Participant execute a general release of employment-related claims). The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to
applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Stock Units via Company website or other electronic delivery.      THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE AWARD AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND
THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.       UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR        STOCK UNITS       These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Award of stock units granted
pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which are evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions. In addition to these Standard Terms and

Conditions, the stock units shall be subject to the terms of the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by this
reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.        STOCK UNITS

1.    
     TERMS OF STOCK UNITS          Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) an award of a
number of stock units (the  Award  or the  Stock Units ) specified in the Grant Notice. Each Stock Unit represents the right to receive (i) one share of the Company s common stock, $2.50 par value per share (the
 Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock from time to time ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), upon the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan, each as amended from time to time. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant
Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any Subsidiary.       

2.    
     VESTING OF STOCK UNITS          The Award shall not be vested as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice and shall be forfeitable unless and until otherwise vested pursuant to the terms of the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms and
Conditions, the terms of the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan. After the end of the Restriction Period, subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, if applicable,
the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the Award shall become vested as of the Restriction Period Termination Date described in the Grant Notice with respect to that number of Stock Units as set forth in the Grant Notice. Unless the Compensation and
Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ) shall determine otherwise, a period of time in which the Participant is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with a leave of absence
policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary shall count toward satisfaction of the Restriction Period.       

3.    
     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS          The Participant will have the rights of a shareholder only after shares of Common Stock have been issued to the Participant following the Restriction Period Termination Date as described in the Grant Notice (or
such earlier date as otherwise provided in Section 5(i) or Section 5(iii) hereof) and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares. Stock Units shall not entitle the Participant to any rights of a shareholder of
Common Stock and there are no voting rights with respect to the Stock Units. During the Restriction Period and during any period following the end of the Restriction Period in which delivery of shares of Common Stock is: (i) deferred pursuant
to the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan; or (ii) delayed in accordance with Section 5(i) hereof; unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments. Such
Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments; provided, however, that (i) if the Participant has elected to defer receipt of the Stock Units in
accordance with the terms of the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such deferred Stock Units which relate to dividends paid on and after the date of the deferral of such Stock Units (i.e., the
date that the Stock Units would have been payable to the Participant under the Plan had such Stock Units not been deferred under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan) shall be reinvested as part of the Award Account under the Company s
Deferred Compensation Plan, and shall be deferred for payment at the same time as the Award Account is paid under the terms of the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan; and (ii) if such Dividend Equivalent Payments relate to Stock Units
who   
         2   

payment is delayed as described in Section 5(i) hereof, on the date such Stock Units are paid. Except as provided above, a Participant s right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments
shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earliest of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary, payment of the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof or at the Restriction
Period Termination Date, except that:      (A)        in the event
the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2014, and is age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan at any time during
the Restriction Period during the Participant s period of continuous employment (satisfaction of both the September 30, 2014 continuous employment requirement and age and service requirements is known as  Retirement Status ),
such Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in accordance with this Section 3 hereof until the earlier of the Restriction Period Termination Date or payment of the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof,
notwithstanding any Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary on or after attaining Retirement Status; and      (B)        in the event the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary, but is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in
accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary, such Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in accordance with this Section 3 hereof during the period of such leave of absence
until the earlier of the date that is the end of such leave of absence, the Restriction Period Termination Date or payment of the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof, notwithstanding any Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary
as a result of such leave of absence.       

4.    
     ACCELERATION/LAPSE OF RESTRICTION PERIOD          Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, the Stock Units shall be treated as follows in connection with the Participant s Separation from Service:   
  (i) If the Participant has a Separation from Service prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date by reason of the
Participant s death, the Stock Units shall immediately vest, all restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full to the Participant s beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, in
accordance with Section 5 hereof.      (ii) In the event the Participant is determined to be disabled under the
provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan, the Stock Units shall immediately vest, all restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full in accordance with
Section 5 hereof.      (iii) If the Participant incurs a Separation from Service because such Participant s
employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a termination as a result of disability, cause or gross misconduct as determined by the Committee), within two (2) years following a Change in Control
(as defined in the Plan), the Stock Units shall immediately vest and the remaining restrictions with respect to the Stock Units, including any remaining Restriction Period, shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full in accordance with
Section 5 hereof.      (iv) In the event of a Change in Control prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date in
which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the Stock Units upon the Change in Control, the Restriction Period and all other restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse immediately prior to the
Change in Control and such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 5 hereof.   
         3   

(v)    In the event the Participant has attained Retirement Status
(within the meaning of Section 3(A) hereof) at any time during the Restriction Period that is on or after September 30, 2014 and during the Participant s period of continuous employment, the Restriction Period shall lapse on the date
the Participant attains Retirement Status and such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 5 hereof.   
  (vi)    Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs (i) through (v), if the Participant is an Eligible
Employee (within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan) in the Key Employee Continuity Plan and incurs a Severance within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the Participant s Stock Units shall vest and be paid in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, including without limitation the requirement that the Participant execute an appropriate general release of employment-related claims.   
  (vii) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 hereof, all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the
Participant s rights to such Stock Units and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless the Participant remains in the continuous employment of the Company or a Subsidiary
(such continuous employment shall, for this purpose, include a period of time during which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary) for the entire
Restriction Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, if it finds that the circumstances in the particular case so warrant, allow a Participant who ceases to be so continuously employed and has a Separation from Service prior to the
Restriction Period Termination Date to retain some or all of the Stock Units. In such event, the Restriction Period and all other restrictions with respect to the retained Stock Units shall lapse, and such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance
with Section 5 hereof.       

5.    
     PAYMENT OF STOCK UNITS          (i)        Subject to Section 25 of the Plan and Sections 4, 5(ii) and 5(iii) hereof, vested Stock Units shall be settled by the delivery to the Participant (through the
Participant s account at the Company s designated third party stock administrator) or the Participant s beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, of one share of Common Stock per vested Stock Unit:   
  (A) except as provided in (B) below, within 30 days of the first to occur of the Restriction Period
Termination Date or the Participant s right to payment arising under Section 4(i), 4(ii), 4(iii), 4(iv) or 4(vii) hereof;      (B) if the Participant s Stock Units are determined to constitute  deferred compensation  subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A, such Stock Units shall be paid to the Participant within
thirty (30) days of the Restriction Period Termination Date in the event that the Participant s right to payment:       

(1)  
    under Section 4(ii) or Section 4(iv) hereof arises before the Restriction Period Termination Date and after the date the Restriction Period lapses
in accordance with Section 4(v) hereof;          

(2)  
    arises under Section 4(iii) hereof; or          

(3)  
    arises under Section 4(vii) hereof.         Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period in which the Company reasonably anticipates that the delivery of shares hereunder
would: (A) violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements;
or (B) result in the reduction   
         4   

or elimination of the Company s deduction under Internal Revenue Code section 162(m) with respect to such delivery of shares, and (ii) the date on which shares are delivered to the
Participant (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other administrative matters; provided, however, that
delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying Stock Units (and any Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units or, if such Dividend Equivalent Payments are invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s discretion, the shares of
Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) for Stock Units that are determined to be exempt from the requirements of Internal Revenue Code   409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies the  short-term deferral 
exception described in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(b)(4) and for Stock Units subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies Treas. Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(7).   
  (ii)        Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant may elect to defer receipt of
payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units pursuant to the terms of, and in accordance with the provisions of, the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan. If the Participant elects to defer payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock
Units, such payment will be made in accordance with the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan.   
  (iii)        Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is an Eligible Employee
(within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan) in the Key Employee Continuity Plan and incurs a Severance within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units shall be paid in
accordance with Section 2.4 of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, provided the Participant has executed a general release of employment-related claims in the form prescribed by the Key Employee Continuity Plan.   
    PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY        By
electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following.       

6.   
     CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS          The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets,
business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value
from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   

7 .  
     TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS       
  The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of
the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial
information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans;
succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints
regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that any unauthorized
  
         5   

disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct.   

8.   
     AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION       
  The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources
officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer
or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any
electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       

9.   
     PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC          (i)  The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 11
( Entity ), this would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other Entity to the
detriment of the Company. The Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms
and Conditions, the Participant agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another Entity he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her
intention to accept such employment or affiliation. The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without
improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      (ii)  If the Sr. HR Officer and the
Participant are unable to reach agreement on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. The Participant also agrees that he or she
will not begin to work for another person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 11, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed
without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       
    The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 8 or 9 above, he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of
Common Stock (or the market value of any shares of Common Stock received) which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply
with any such promise made in Section 8 or 9, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash
equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without
limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common
Stock granted to him or her under the Grant Notice absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 8 and 9 above.   
         6   

NO DIRECT COMPETITION        By electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following.   

11 .  
     NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION       
  The Participant agrees that for a period of one year following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly
or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar
in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with
the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation),
guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation
of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way
of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 11 is not intended to prevent the
Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Grant Notice absent his
or her agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 11.       

12 .    
     ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF          The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 8, 9 and 11. The
Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints
is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she
are bound by such restraints. The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 8, 9 and 11, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. The Participant therefore agrees that the
Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 10 and 13, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants. The
Participant and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 8, 9 and 11 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a
geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.       

13 .    
     VIOLATION OF PROMISES          The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 11, then he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market
value thereof) granted to him or her by the Grant Notice which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with
the promises he or she   
         7   

made in Section 11. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be
required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common
Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company.        GENERAL     
   
    The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating
to his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act,
except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 or 11 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under
federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of
contract and the law of tort. The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this
agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the
Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 or 11 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or
any of its affiliates. The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may
grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the
arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless
otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.
      
    If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in
scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect.   

16 .    
     CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION          All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the
conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and the Participant hereby consent   
         8   

and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of
action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions. Sections 9(ii) and 11 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
   
    The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.   

18.   
     RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES          The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any
Common Stock issued in respect of vested Stock Units, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and
other holders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.       
    The Company shall not deliver shares in respect of any Stock Units unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding obligations. Unless the Participant
pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the delivery of the Common Stock, withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock issuable in connection with the vesting
of the Stock Units (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company). The Participant acknowledges that the Company shall have the
right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the delivery of the Stock Units from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages).   

20.   
     NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARD          The Participant understands, acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise directly or indirectly encumbered or
disposed of prior to the payment of the Common Stock to the Participant as provided in Section 5 hereof.       

21.   
     LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO STOCK UNITS       
  Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the
Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan, the Key Employee Continuity Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and
Conditions except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon vesting of the Stock Units. Nothing in the Plan, in the Key Employee Continuity Plan, in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions
or any other instrument executed pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any
time for any reason.   
         9   

22.   
     OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED          The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, as applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Stock
Units. Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the Stock Units are superseded.   
         10   

</EX-10.(B)>

<EX-10.(C)>
 4
 d668613dex10c.htm
 EX-10.(C)

EX-10.(c) 

Exhibit 10(c)        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION    
  FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the nonqualified
stock option (the  Option ) to purchase any part or all of the number of shares of its common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), that are covered by this Option, as specified below, at the Exercise Price per share
specified below and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) and the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and
Conditions ) adopted under such Plan, and provided to the Participant, each as amended from time to time. This Option is granted pursuant to the Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions.
      
    This Option is not intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended.      By electronically accepting this Option, the Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read,
and agrees that this Option shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions. The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required
to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Option via Company website or other electronic delivery.   
  THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE OPTION AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING
WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.   

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR        NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION       These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Option granted
pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which is identified as nonqualified stock option and is evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions. In
addition to these Terms and Conditions, the Option shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by this reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning
set forth in the Plan.        OPTION         

1.   
     TERMS OF OPTION          Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) a nonqualified stock option (the
 Option ) to purchase up to the number of shares of the Company s common stock (the  Common Stock ), set forth in the Grant Notice. The exercise price per share and the other terms and conditions of the Option are set forth
in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions (as amended from time to time), and the Plan. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any
Subsidiary.       

2.   
     NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION          The Option is not intended to be an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) and will be interpreted accordingly.   

3.   
     EXERCISE OF OPTION          The Option shall not be exercisable as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice. After the Grant Date, to the extent not previously exercised, and subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these
Standard Terms and Conditions and the Plan, the Option shall be exercisable only to the extent it becomes vested, as described in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions and/or the terms of the Plan, to purchase up to that number of
shares of Common Stock as set forth in the Grant Notice, provided that (except as set forth in Section 4A., 4B. and 4C. below) the Participant remains employed with the Company and does not experience a termination of employment.   
  The exercise price (the  Exercise Price ) of the Option is set forth in the Grant Notice. The Company shall not be
obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock until the Participant shall have paid the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of Common Stock. To exercise the Option (or any part thereof), the Participant shall deliver to the Company
appropriate notice specifying the number of whole shares of Common Stock the Participant wishes to purchase accompanied by valid payment in the form of (i) a check, (ii) an attestation form confirming the Participant s current
ownership of whole shares of Common Stock equal in value to the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of Common Stock, and/or (iii) an authorization to sell shares equal in value to the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of
Common Stock. Notices and authorizations shall be delivered and all checks shall be payable to the Company s third party stock plan administrator, or as otherwise directed by the Company.   
  Fractional shares may not be exercised. Shares of Common Stock will be issued as soon as practicable after exercise.
Notwithstanding the above, for administrative or other reasons, including, but not limited to the Company s determination that exercisability of the Option would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws, the Company may from time to
time suspend the ability of the Participant to exercise an Option for limited periods of time, which suspensions   

shall not change the period in which the Option is exercisable, except as otherwise provided in the Plan.       

4.   
     EXPIRATION OF OPTION          Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee consistent with the terms of the Plan, the Option shall expire and cease to be exercisable as of the earlier of (a) the Expiration Date set forth in the
Grant Notice or (b) the date specified below in Sections 4A. through 4F., as applicable.       

A.  
    If the Participant s termination of employment is by reason of death or the Participant is determined to be disabled under the provisions of the
Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan, then any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable (by the Participant or the
Participant s estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as the case may be) at the date of such termination of employment or the first day on which the Participant is determined to be disabled under such long-term disability plan, as the
case may be, until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment or the first day of disability as determined under such long-term disability plan, as the case may be.      

B.  
    If the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2014, (which shall include a period of time during
which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary), and retires at or after attaining age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s
or a Subsidiary s pension plan ( 62/10 Status ), then the Option shall be exercisable in accordance with and at the times it becomes vested, as described in the Grant Notice, notwithstanding the Participant s termination of
employment with the Company or a Subsidiary, until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment.          

C.  
    If the Participant s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a termination as a result of
disability, cause or gross misconduct) within two (2) years following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Participant may exercise the Option upon
the date of such termination of employment, and the Option shall remain exercisable until the date that is three (3) years following the date of such termination of employment (or until the date that is five (5) years following the date of
such termination of employment, in the case of a termination of employment by reason of the Participant s death or a termination of employment described in Section 4B. hereof). Furthermore, the Option exercise period shall be as described
in Section 4A. in the event the Participant is determined to be disabled under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan prior to the Participant s termination of employment described in this
Section 4C.          

D.  
    In the event of a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the Option upon the Change in
Control, any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable (provided that the Option may be canceled upon the consummation of the Change in Control without payment
of any additional consideration if the exercise price of the Option is less than the consideration per Share payable to shareholders of the Company in such Change in Control) and the Participant may exercise the Option not assumed or continued until
the date that is five (5) years following the date of such Change in Control. If the Participant terminates employment following such Change in Control for a reason described in 4E., any unexercised portion
     
         2   

of the Option shall be immediately forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.      

E.  
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4, if the Participant s employment is terminated by the Company for deliberate, willful or gross
misconduct, the unexercised portion of the Option, whether or not then vested and exercisable, shall be immediately forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.      

F.  
    Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 hereof, the Participant may exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable at the time
of the Participant s termination of employment until the date that is three (3) months following the date of such termination of employment. Any portion of the Option that is not vested and exercisable at the time of such termination of
employment shall be forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.           PROTECTION OF
CONFIDENTIALITY        By electronically accepting the Option and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant
acknowledges and agrees to the following.       

5.   
     CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS          The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets,
business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value
from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   

6 .  
     TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS       
  The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of
the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial
information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans;
succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints
regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that any unauthorized
disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct.       

7.   
     AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION       
  The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources
officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer
or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of
  
         3   

the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.   

8.   
     PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC          (i)  The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 10
( Entity ), this would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other Entity to the
detriment of the Company. The Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms
and Conditions, the Participant agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another Entity he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her
intention to accept such employment or affiliation. The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without
improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      (ii)  If the Sr. HR Officer and the
Participant are unable to reach agreement on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. The Participant also agrees that he or she
will not begin to work for another person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 10, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed
without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       

9.   
     FAILURE TO COMPLY          The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 7 or 8 above, (a) the Option, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested,
will be immediately forfeited and cancelled and (b) the Participant will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of
Common Stock acquired on exercise of the Option less the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by the Participant upon exercise of the Option at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date
when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply with any such promise that hr or she made in Section 7 or 8, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that the Participant has not complied with any
such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will
be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. The
Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to him or her under the Grant Notice absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 7 and 8
above.        NO DIRECT COMPETITION        By electronically accepting the Option and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following.   
         4   

10 .  
     NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION       
  The Participant agrees that for a period of one year following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly
or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar
in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with
the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation),
guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation
of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way
of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 10 is not intended to prevent the
Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Grant Notice absent his
or her agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 10.       

11 .    
     ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF          The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 7, 8 and 10. The
Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints
is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she
are bound by such restraints. The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 7, 8 and 10, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. The Participant therefore agrees that the
Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 9 and 12, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants. The
Participant and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 7, 8 and 10 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a
geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.       

12 .    
     VIOLATION OF PROMISES          The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 10 above, (a) the Option, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited
and cancelled and (b) the Participant will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise
of the Option less the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by him or her upon exercise of the Option at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date
when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be
  
         5   

required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set
off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company.   
    GENERAL         
    The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating
to his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act,
except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 or 10 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under
federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of
contract and the law of tort. The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this
agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the
Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 or 10 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or
any of its affiliates. The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may
grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the
arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless
otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.
      
    If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in
scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect.   

15 .    
     CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION          All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the
conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all
claims, causes of   
         6   

action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions. Sections 8(ii) and 10 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
   
    The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.   

17.   
     RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES ACQUIRED PURSUANT TO OPTION EXERCISE       
  The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any
resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Common Stock issued as a result of the exercise of the Option, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy,
(b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and other optionholders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.   
   
    The Company shall not deliver shares of Common Stock in respect of the exercise of any Option unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding
obligations. Unless the Participant pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the exercise of the Option, tax withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock
issuable in connection with the exercise of the Option (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company). The Participant acknowledges
that the Company shall have the right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the exercise of the Option from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages).   

19.   
     NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTION          Except as permitted under the Plan, the Participant may not assign or transfer the Option to anyone other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and the Option shall be exercisable only by the
Participant during his or her lifetime or, following a Participant s death, by the Participant s beneficiary. The Company may cancel the Participant s Option if the Participant attempts to assign or transfer it in a manner
inconsistent with this Section 19.       

20.   
     LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO OPTION       
  Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the
Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and Conditions except as to such shares of
Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon exercise of the Option or any part of it. Nothing in the Plan, in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed pursuant to the Plan shall
confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason.   

21.   
     OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED          The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Option. Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations
concerning the Option are superseded.   
         7   

</EX-10.(C)>

<EX-10.(D)>
 5
 d668613dex10d.htm
 EX-10.(D)

EX-10.(d) 

Exhibit 10(d)        
       
       UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   KEY EMPLOYEE CONTINUITY PLAN        
      Dated as of November 16, 2000   
  (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009 and as further amended February 3, 2011 and   
  February 6, 2014)      (The
severance benefits provided under this Plan are subject to the terms and limitation of the Board of Director s Policy Regarding Shareholder Approval of Future Severance Agreements, adopted on September 25, 2003)   

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   KEY EMPLOYEE CONTINUITY PLAN    
   (as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009        and as further amended February 3, 2011 and February 6, 2014)        
  The Company herebefore adopted, effective as of November 16, 2000, the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan
for the benefit of certain employees of the Company and its Affiliates (the  Plan ). The Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009, to reflect the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code. The Plan was further amended February 3, 2011 and February 6, 2014. All capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 1 hereof. The Plan, as a  severance pay arrangement  within the meaning of
Section 3(2)(B)(i) of ERISA, is intended to be excepted from the definitions of  employee pension benefit plan  and  pension plan  set forth under Section 3(2) of ERISA, and is intended to meet the descriptive
requirements of a plan constituting a  severance pay plan  within the meaning of regulations published by the Secretary of Labor at Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations,   2510.3-2(b).   
       SECTION
1.                      DEFINITIONS .  As hereinafter used:       SECTION 1.1       Affiliate   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.   
   SECTION 1.2       Beneficial Owner   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange
Act.       SECTION 1.3       Board   means the Board of Directors of the Company.   
   SECTION 1.4       Cause   means (i) the willful and continued failure by the Eligible Employee to
substantially perform the Eligible Employee s duties with the Employer (other than any such failure resulting from the Eligible Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness), or (ii) the willful engaging by the Eligible
Employee in conduct which is demonstrably injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the Eligible Employee s part shall be deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted
to be done, by the Eligible Employee not in good faith or without reasonable belief that the Eligible Employee s act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company.   
   SECTION 1.5     A   Change in Control   shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one
of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:   
   (i)           any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the
Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (A) of paragraph (iii) below; or   
   (ii)          the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a
majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on November 16, 2000, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election
contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved or recommended
by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or   

(iii)         there is consummated a
merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately
prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the securities
of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which
no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing
20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or   
   (iv)         the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation
or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of
the Company s assets to an entity, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which is owned by shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to
such sale.       SECTION 1.6       Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to
time.       SECTION 1.7       Company   means Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation, or any successors
thereto.       SECTION 1.8       Eligible Employee   means any employee who is a Tier 1, Tier 2 or
Tier 3 Employee. An Eligible Employee becomes a   Severed Employee   once he or she incurs a Severance.       SECTION
1.9       Employer   means the Company or any of its Affiliates which is an employer of an Eligible Employee.       SECTION 1.10     Equity Award   shall mean stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other similar equity-based awards which are granted to an Eligible Employee by
the Company (excluding, however, restricted stock unit awards made under the Company s 2006 Long Term Plan, 2007 Long Term Plan, 2008 Long Term Plan, or any similar awards with performance criteria made under a long term incentive plan adopted
by the Company subsequent to the date hereof).       SECTION 1.11     Exchange Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended from time to time.       SECTION 1.12     Good Reason   means the occurrence, on or after the
date of a Change in Control and without the affected Eligible Employee s written consent, of any of the following: (i) the assignment to the Eligible Employee of duties that are materially inconsistent with the Eligible Employee s
duties immediately prior to the Change in Control (other than pursuant to a transfer or promotion to a position of equal or enhanced responsibility or authority) or any material diminution in the nature or scope of the Eligible Employee s
responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (ii) a reduction by the Employer (or any member of the Parent Group) in the Eligible Employee s annual base salary or annual incentive opportunity from that
in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; provided, however, that such reduction results in a material diminution in the total package of compensation and benefits provided to the Eligible Employee for performing services from that in
effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (iii) a material reduction by the Employer (or any member of the Parent Group) in the pension, thrift, medical or long term disability benefits provided to the Eligible Employee from those
provided to the Eligible Employee immediately prior to the Change in Control;   
         3   

provided, however, that such reduction results in a material diminution in the total package of compensation and benefits provided to the Eligible Employee for performing services from that in
effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; or (iv) the failure by any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, to
expressly assume and agree to perform this Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no succession had taken place.   
  (a)          The Eligible Employee must notify the Employer of the existence of
the reason or condition that the Eligible Employee believes would permit a separation from service for Good Reason within ninety (90) days of the initial existence of such reason or condition. The Employer (or member of the Parent Group, as
applicable) shall, following receipt of such notice, have a period of not less than thirty (30) days to cure the condition and not be required to pay the Severance Payment or provide any other payment or benefit described in Section 2 that
is conditioned on the Eligible Employee s Severance. The Employer may establish procedures with respect to the notice and cure provisions described above, consistent with Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(n), and may in appropriate circumstances
waive part or all of the above-described cure period.       SECTION 1.13     Parent   shall mean the ultimate parent, if any,
of the Company after a Change in Control.       SECTION 1.14     Parent Group   shall mean, collectively, the Parent and its
Affiliates.       SECTION 1.15     Person   shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the
Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its Affiliates, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.       SECTION 1.16     Plan  
means the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan, as set forth herein, as it may be amended from time to time.   
   SECTION 1.17     Plan Administrator   means the person or persons appointed from time to time by the Board which
appointment may be revoked at any time by the Board.       SECTION 1.18   A   Potential Change in Control  
shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:   
  (a)          the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which
would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control;   
  (b)          the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take
or to consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute a Change in Control;   
  (c)          any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of
securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing fifteen (15%) or more of either the then outstanding shares of common
stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or   
  (d)          the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that a Potential Change
in Control has occurred.   
         4   

SECTION 1.19     Severance   means the separation from service (as such
term is defined in section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of an Eligible Employee from the Employer on or within two years following the date of the Change in Control, (i) by the Employer, other than for Cause or
pursuant to mandatory retirement policies of the Employer that existed prior to the Change of Control, or (ii) by the Eligible Employee for Good Reason. An Eligible Employee will not be considered to have incurred a Severance if his or her
employment is (a) discontinued by reason of the Eligible Employee s death or a physical or mental condition causing such Eligible Employee s inability to substantially perform his or her duties with the Employer, including, without
limitation, such condition entitling him or her to benefits under any sick pay or disability income policy or program of the Employer or (b) discontinued by reason of the divestiture of a facility, sale of a business or business unit, or the
outsourcing of a business activity with which the Eligible Employee is affiliated, if the Eligible Employee is offered comparable employment by the entity which acquires such facility, business or business unit or which succeeds to such outsourced
business activity and such entity agrees to assume the obligations of the Employer to the Eligible Employee under this Plan.       SECTION
1.20     Severance Date   means the date on or after the date of the Change in Control on which an Eligible Employee incurs a Severance.       SECTION 1.21     Severance Payment   means the payment determined pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof.       SECTION 1.22     Tier 1 Employee   means any employee of the Employer designated as such by a resolution of the Board.   
   SECTION 1.23     Tier 2 Employee   means any employee of the Employer designated as such by a resolution of the
Board.       SECTION 1.24     Tier 3 Employee   means any employee of the Employer designated as such by a
resolution of the Board.           SECTION
2.                     BENEFITS .        SECTION 2.1     (a)         Each Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance shall be entitled, subject to Section 2.6 hereof, to receive a
Severance Payment equal to the product of (i) the sum of (A) such Eligible Employee s annual base salary as in effect immediately prior to such Severance, plus (B) the average annual incentive compensation earned (or foregone at
the election of the Eligible Employee) by such Eligible Employee in respect of the three (or fewer, as hereinafter described) annual incentive compensation determinations (including determinations that no annual incentive compensation will be
awarded) immediately preceding the Severance (or, if higher, in respect of the three (or fewer, as hereinafter described) annual incentive compensation determinations immediately preceding the Change in Control) multiplied by (ii) in the case
of a Tier 1 Employee, three (3), in the case of a Tier 2 Employee, two (2); and in the case of a Tier 3 Employee, one and one-half (1.5). For purposes of clause (A) above, annual base salary shall be determined immediately prior to the
Severance (without regard to any reductions therein which constitute Good Reason) and for purposes of clause (B) above, annual incentive compensation determinations prior to 2000 (with respect to annual incentive compensation earned for plan
years prior to 1999) shall be disregarded.      (b)        The
Severance Payment shall be paid to a Severed Employee in a cash lump sum, within twenty (20) business days immediately following the expiration of the revocation period, if any, applicable to such Severed Employee s release described in
Section 2.6; but in no event later than March 15   th    of the year
following the calendar year in which the Severance Date occurs.       SECTION 2.2     Each Eligible Employee who
incurs a Severance and who is, at the time of such Severance, a participant in the Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers of Union Pacific   
         5   

Corporation and Affiliates (the  UPC SERP ) shall, for purposes of the UPC SERP, (i) be deemed to have accumulated an additional thirty-six (36) months of age and service
credit beyond the Severance Date solely for purposes of determining the amount of any UPC SERP benefit (but in no event beyond age 65 and in no event shall aggregate service under the UPC SERP exceed forty (40) years), and (ii) be deemed
to be fully vested under such SERP.       SECTION 2.3     For a period of three years following a Severed
Employee s Severance Date (or, if sooner, until such Severed Employee attains the age of fifty-two (52), at which time the Severed Employee shall become entitled to receive benefits under the Company s retiree medical benefit plans if such
Severed Employee s original hire date with (A) the Company or (B) any Affiliate that on December 31, 2003 was a participating employer in the Flexible Benefits Program for Full-Time Salaried and Full-Time Hourly Employees of
Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, is before January 1, 2004), the Company shall provide such Severed Employee and anyone entitled to claim under or through such Severed Employee all benefits under any medical or dental program to the
same extent as if such Severed Employee had continued to be an employee during such period; provided, however, (a) that such Severed Employee shall pay the fair market value for such coverage (active or retiree, as applicable), as determined
under section 61 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and (b) the benefit amounts otherwise receivable by or in respect of a Severed Employee hereunder shall be reduced to the extent benefits of the same type are received by
such Severed Employee from a subsequent employer (and the Severed Employee shall report the receipt of such benefits to the Company). The coverage period for purposes of the group health continuation requirements of section 4980B of the Code shall
commence on the Severance Date.       SECTION
2.4     (a)          Subject to Section 2.6 hereof, in the event an Eligible Employee incurs a Severance, the Eligible Employee shall become fully vested in all
outstanding Equity Awards that are, at the Severance Date, unvested or subject to forfeiture restrictions. In the case of an Equity Award consisting of a stock option, such option shall continue to be exercisable for a period of three years from the
Severance Date (or such longer period as may be prescribed in the plan or agreement governing such option), but in no event later than the expiration date of such option. In the case of an Equity Award consisting of restricted stock, the Company
shall make payment of such restricted stock within five (5) business days following lapse of any revocation period for the release contemplated by Section 2.6.   
              (b)         
 In the case of an Equity Award (or any part thereof) that is a Stock Unit (as defined in the Company s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (or any subsequent stock incentive plan adopted by the Company) (the  Stock Plan ))
granted to an Eligible Employee who incurs a Severance under this Plan, such Stock Unit shall, subject to Section 2.6 and the final sentence of this paragraph (b) regarding deferrals, be paid within five (5) business days following
lapse of any revocation period for the release contemplated by Section 2.6. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that such a Severed Employee has attained Retirement Status (as defined below) prior to the Exempt Date (as defined below),
the Stock Unit shall not be paid until sixty (60) days after the Severance Date, subject to Section 2.6 and the final sentence of this paragraph (b) regarding deferrals.  Retirement Status  means, (i) for Eligible
Employees who were granted Stock Unit Equity Awards in 2006 and/or 2007 under the Stock Plan, an individual who, during the Restriction Period for such Equity Award, attained age 60 with eligibility for retirement under the provisions of the
Company s or a subsidiary s pension plan (or who had attained such age and eligibility at the time the Stock Unit Equity Award was granted), (ii) for Eligible Employees who were granted Stock Unit Equity Awards in 2005 or in any year
2008-2010, an individual who, during the Restriction Period for such Equity Award, attained age 65 (or who had attained such age at the time the Stock Unit Equity Award was granted), (iii) for Eligible Employees who were granted a Stock Unit
Equity Award in 2011, an individual who was continually employed with the Company or a subsidiary until September 30, 2011 and during the Restriction Period for such Equity Award and while continually employed with the Company or a subsidiary,
attained age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a subsidiary s pension plan (or who had attained such age and service at the time the Stock Unit Equity Award was granted), and (iv) for Eligible
Employees who are granted a Stock Unit Equity Award in a year subsequent to 2011 under the Stock Plan or any successor   
         6   

thereto adopted by the Company,  Retirement Status  shall be defined in accordance with and to the extent such term is defined under the Stock Plan (or successor thereto) or the grant
notice or other document evidencing such Stock Unit Equity Award ( Stock Unit Agreement ).  Exempt Date  means January 1 of the calendar year in which the Restriction Period ends, or, in the case of a Restriction Period that
ends such that payment would be made by March 15 of the calendar year in which such Restriction Period ends, January 1 of the preceding year. If a Severed Employee has previously elected to defer receipt of a Stock Unit to a date beyond
the applicable payment date referenced herein, payment of such Stock Unit will be made on the later of (A) the deferred payment date of the Stock Unit determined in accordance with the deferred compensation plan under which the Stock Units are
deferred (which, for this purpose, will be the first deferred payment date in the event the Stock Units, in accordance with such deferred compensation plan, are paid in installment payments) and (B) the date otherwise established for payment in
this subparagraph (b).   
              (c)         
 If the payment terms of the Stock Plan (or any successor thereto) or the payment provisions of an Eligible Employee s Stock Unit Agreement should conflict with the terms of this Plan, the terms of this Plan shall control and Stock Units
shall be paid in accordance with Section 2.4(b) hereof.   
              (d)         
 The amount of any cash incentive bonus awarded under any Company long-term incentive plan or program shall be calculated in accordance with the applicable plan document and paid, subject to Section 2.6, to an Eligible Employee who has a
Severance within five (5) business days following the lapse of any revocation period for the release contemplated by Section 2.6, or, in the event such cash incentive bonus is  deferred compensation  under Section 409A of
the Code because the Eligible Employee elected to defer payment of such bonus in accordance with the terms of a deferral program applicable to such bonus, at such other date as provided under the terms of the Eligible Employee s payment
election made in accordance with such deferral program.       SECTION 2.5     In the event of a claim for benefits
hereunder by an Eligible Employee, such Eligible Employee shall present the reason for his or her claim in writing to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of such written claim, send a
written notification to the Eligible Employee as to its disposition. In the event the claim is wholly or partially denied, such written notification shall (a) state the specific reason or reasons for the denial, (b) make specific reference
to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, (c) provide a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Eligible Employee to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is
necessary, and (d) set forth the procedure by which the Eligible Employee may appeal the denial of his or her claim. In the event an Eligible Employee wishes to appeal the denial of his or her claim, he or she may request a review of such
denial by making application in writing to the Plan Administrator within sixty (60) days after receipt of such denial. Such Eligible Employee (or his or her duly authorized legal representative) may, upon written request to the Plan
Administrator, review any documents pertinent to his or her claim, and submit in writing, issues and comments in support of his or her position. Within forty-five (45) days after receipt of a written appeal (unless special circumstances, such
as the need to hold a hearing, require an extension of time, but in no event more than one hundred twenty (120) days after such receipt), the Plan Administrator shall notify the Eligible Employee of the final decision. The final decision shall
be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, and specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based.   
   SECTION 2.6     No Severed Employee shall be eligible to receive a Severance Payment or other benefits under the Plan
that are subject to this Section 2.6 unless he or she first executes a written release substantially in the form attached hereto as Schedule A. Payments made under this Plan that are contingent on the Severed Employee s execution of the
release shall in all events be paid no later than two and one-half months following the end of the calendar year in which the Severance Date, or other triggering event for the payment, occurs; except that with respect to any benefits under the Plan
that are  deferred compensation  under section 409A of the Code, payment shall be made sixty (60) days after   
         7   

the Severance Date, unless the Severed Employee is a  specified employee  (as determined in accordance with a uniform policy adopted by the Company with respect to all arrangements
subject to section 409A of the Code maintained by the Company and its Affiliates), in which case such deferred compensation shall be paid six months plus one day following such employee s  separation from service  as defined in the
regulations promulgated under section 409A of the Code. In order to ensure compliance with the foregoing, the Company shall provide the release described in this Section 2.6 to the Severed Employee in sufficient time so that the Severed
Employee can consider the release for the full consideration period required by applicable law, and have the ability to revoke such release during the revocation period(s) required by applicable law, before payment is made by the applicable
deadline.       SECTION 2.7     An Employer shall be entitled to withhold from amounts to be paid to the Severed
Employee hereunder any federal, state or local withholding or other taxes or charges which it is from time to time required to withhold.       
   SECTION 3.                     PLAN
ADMINISTRATION .        SECTION 3.1     The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan and may interpret
the Plan, prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations under the Plan and make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, subject to all of the provisions of the Plan.   
   SECTION 3.2     The Plan Administrator may delegate any of its duties hereunder to such person or persons from time to
time as it may designate.       SECTION 3.3     The Plan Administrator is empowered, on behalf of the Plan, to
engage accountants, legal counsel and such other personnel as it deems necessary or advisable to assist it in the performance of its duties under the Plan. The functions of any such persons engaged by the Plan Administrator shall be limited to the
specified services and duties for which they are engaged, and such persons shall have no other duties, obligations or responsibilities under the Plan. Such persons shall exercise no discretionary authority or discretionary control respecting the
management of the Plan. All reasonable expenses thereof shall be borne by the Employer.       SECTION
4.                     PLAN MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION .    
  The Plan may be amended or terminated by the Board at any time;  provided ,  however , that, during the following
periods, the Plan may not be terminated nor may the Plan be amended in any manner adverse to the interests of any Eligible Employee (including, without limitation, any adverse changes to a person s status as an Eligible Employee) without such
Eligible Employee s written consent (and any such termination or amendment shall be void and of no force and effect): (i) within one year preceding a Potential Change in Control (in the case of any action (other than in connection with a
separation from service) pursuant to which an individual ceases to be designated as an Eligible Employee or is designated in a lower tier of Eligible Employee) or within 90 days preceding a Potential Change in Control (in the case of termination of
the Plan or any other amendment which is adverse to the interests of any Eligible Employee), (ii) during the pendency of or within 90 days following the cessation of a Potential Change in Control or (iii) within two years following a
Change in Control. This Plan shall terminate automatically two years and one day after a Change in Control. No Plan termination shall, without such Eligible Employee s written consent, adversely affect any rights of any Eligible Employee which
accrued under this Plan prior to such termination.   
         8   

SECTION
5.                     GENERAL PROVISIONS .        SECTION 5.1     Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, no right or interest of any Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be assignable or transferable, in whole or in part, either
directly or by operation of law or otherwise, including without limitation by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge or in any manner; no attempted assignment or transfer thereof shall be effective; and no right or interest of any Eligible
Employee under the Plan shall be liable for, or subject to, any obligation or liability of such Eligible Employee. When a payment is due under this Plan to a Severed Employee who is unable to care for his or her affairs, payment may be made directly
to his or her legal guardian or personal representative.       SECTION 5.2     If an Employer is obligated by law,
contract, policy or otherwise to pay severance pay, a termination indemnity, notice pay, or the like, or if an Employer is obligated by law to provide advance notice of separation ( Notice Period ), then any Severance Payment hereunder
shall be reduced by the amount of any such severance pay, termination indemnity, notice pay or the like, as applicable, and by the amount of any compensation received during any Notice Period.   
   SECTION 5.3     Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust
or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Eligible Employee, or any person whomsoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Employer, and all Eligible Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the
same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.       SECTION 5.4     If any provision of this Plan shall be
held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.   
   SECTION 5.5     This Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators,
successors and assigns of the parties, including each Eligible Employee, present and future, and any successor to the Employer. If a Severed Employee shall die while any amount would still be payable to such Severed Employee hereunder if the Severed
Employee had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan to the executor, personal representative or administrators of the Severed Employee s estate.   
   SECTION 5.6     The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered
part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.       SECTION 5.7     The Plan shall
not be funded. No Eligible Employee shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets of any Employer which may be applied by the Employer to the payment of benefits or other rights under this Plan.   
   SECTION 5.8     Any notice or other communication required or permitted pursuant to the terms hereof shall have been duly
given when delivered or mailed by United States mail, first class, postage prepaid, addressed to the intended recipient at his, her or its last known address.       SECTION 5.9     This Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of Nebraska, to the extent not preempted by federal law, which shall otherwise control.   
         9   

SCHEDULE A         WAIVER AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS AGREEMENT         YOU HAVE BEEN ADVISED TO CONSULT AN ATTORNEY
PRIOR TO SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT.        YOU HAVE [FORTY-FIVE] [TWENTY-ONE] DAYS AFTER RECEIVING THIS AGREEMENT TO CONSIDER WHETHER TO
SIGN IT.        AFTER SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, YOU HAVE ANOTHER SEVEN DAYS IN WHICH TO REVOKE IT, AND IT DOES NOT TAKE EFFECT UNTIL
THOSE SEVEN DAYS HAVE ENDED.       In consideration of, and subject to, the payments to be made to me by [Name of
Employer Corporation] ( Union Pacific ) or any of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan (the  Plan ), which I acknowledge that I would not otherwise be entitled to receive, I
hereby waive any claims I may have for employment or re-employment by Union Pacific or any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific after the date hereof, and I further agree to and do release and forever discharge Union Pacific or any subsidiary or
parent of Union Pacific and their respective past and present officers, directors, shareholders, employees and agents from any and all claims and causes of action, known or unknown, arising out of or relating to my employment with Union Pacific or
any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific or the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, by reason of any event, matter, cause or thing which has occurred to the date of execution of this Release relating in any way to my employment
relationship with Union Pacific or to my termination of employment thereof, whether for severance or based on statutory or common law claims for employment discrimination, wrongful discharge, breach of contract or any other theory, whether legal or
equitable, or arising under any statute or regulation, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, each as amended, or any other federal, state or local law, regulation, ordinance or common law.   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision hereof, nothing in this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement shall
adversely affect (i) my rights under the Plan; (ii) my rights to benefits other than severance benefits under plans, programs and arrangements of Union Pacific or any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific; or (iii) my rights to
indemnification under any indemnification agreement, applicable law and the certificates of incorporation and bylaws of Union Pacific and any subsidiary or parent of Union Pacific, and my rights under any director s and officer s liability
insurance policy covering me.      I acknowledge that I have signed this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement
voluntarily, knowingly, of my own free will and without reservation or duress, and that no promises or representations, written or oral, have been made to me by any person to induce me to do so other than the promise of payment set forth in the
first paragraph above and Union Pacific s acknowledgment of my rights reserved under the second paragraph above.   
  I understand that this release will be deemed to be an application for benefits under the Plan, and that my entitlement thereto
shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan, and I expressly hereby consent to such terms and conditions.   
  I acknowledge that I have been given not less than [forty-five (45)] [twenty-one (21)] days to review and consider this Waiver and
Release of Claims Agreement, and that I have had the opportunity to consult with an attorney or other advisor of my choice and have been advised by Union Pacific to do so   
         10   

if I choose. I may revoke this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement seven days or less after its execution by providing written notice to Union Pacific.   
  Finally, I acknowledge that I have carefully read this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement and understand all of its terms.
This is the entire Agreement between the parties and is legally binding and enforceable.      This Waiver and Release of
Claims Agreement shall be governed and interpreted under federal law and the laws of Nebraska.      I knowingly and
voluntarily sign this Waiver and Release of Claims Agreement.       

Date Delivered to Employee:    
     
                  [Name of Employer Corporation]    

Date Signed by Employee:    

By:                 

Title:                               

Seven-Day Revocation Period Ends:    

Signed:                              

Date:                              

(Print Employee s Name)   

11   

</EX-10.(D)>

<EX-10.(E)>
 6
 d668613dex10e.htm
 EX-10.(E)

EX-10.(e) 

Exhibit 10(e)        

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        (409A Non-Grandfathered Component)        of    
   UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   (Originally effective as of January 1, 2009,        with amendments approved December 30, 2010, June 22, 2011, March 1, 2013,        and December 16, 2013.)        

ARTICLE ONE         Scope of
Plan and Definitions         

1.1   
      Purpose and Scope of Plan   - The purpose of the Plan (this and other capitalized terms having the meanings set forth below) is to provide a
deferral opportunity and related benefits to Eligible Employees who participate in EIP and SIP. The Plan is intended to be an unfunded nonqualified deferred compensation plan that is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred
compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company, pursuant to sections 201, 301 and 401 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ) and, as such, to be exempt
from the provisions of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA. The rights of each Participant and his Beneficiaries to benefits under the Plan shall be governed by the Plan as set forth herein and as it may hereafter be amended from time
to time. This Plan is effective January 1, 2009, unless expressly provided otherwise herein.          

1.2   
      Applicability   - The Deferred Compensation Plan was bifurcated into two components, effective January 1, 2009. As reflected in the terms of
this Non-Grandfathered Plan, one such component is applicable solely to those amounts that were not, as of December 31, 2004, both credited to a Participant s Account and fully vested or as to which the Participant had a vested right in
accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004 (including related investment gains and losses occurring thereafter). With respect to any other amounts credited to a Participant s account under
the Deferred Compensation Plan, the rights of the Participant and his Beneficiaries shall be governed by the component of the Deferred Compensation Plan known as the  Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific
Corporation, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009.  Prior to January 1, 2009, with respect to all amounts credited under the Deferred Compensation Plan that were subject to section 409A of the Code, the Deferred
Compensation Plan was administered in good faith compliance with section 409A of the Code.          

1.3   
      Definitions   - As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is plainly required
by the context:          

(a)   
       Account  shall mean the entries maintained on the books of the Company which represent a Participant s interest under the
Non-Grandfathered Plan. The term  Account  shall refer to:          

(1)   
      The value of amounts credited to a Participant under the Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect on January 1, 2005, other than amounts (including
investment gains and losses thereon) which under the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan were credited and fully vested or as to which the Participant had a vested right, as of December 31, 2004, valued in accordance with Article 3 and
adjusted for payments made pursuant to Article 4.          

(2)   
      The value of amounts credited to a Participant s Account pursuant to Section 2.1, valued in accordance with Article 3 and adjusted for
payments made pursuant to Article 4.         Under no circumstances shall a
Participant s Account under this Non-Grandfathered Plan be deemed to include amounts (including investment gains and losses thereon) which under the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan were credited
  
         1   

and fully vested or as to which the Participant has a vested right as of December 31, 2004.       

(b)   
       Award  shall mean an award as defined under EIP or SIP consisting of cash or stock units. Stock options or retention share awards are not
eligible for deferral under this Plan.          

(c)   
       Award Account  shall mean the entries maintained on the books of the Company which represent a Participant s interest under the Plan
with respect to each separate Award payable to the Participant under EIP or SIP that the Participant elects to defer under the terms of this Non-Grandfathered Plan. Each Award Account shall separately reflect the Participant s interest in each
investment fund established under Section 3.1.          

(d)   
       Beneficiary  shall mean the person designated by a Participant to receive his interest under the Deferred Compensation Plan in the event of
his death hereunder pursuant to procedures adopted by the Committee. Absent such designation, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be his estate.          

(e)   
       Committee  shall mean the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, or such other committee of the Board
of Directors as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors to administer the Deferred Compensation Plan.          

(f)   
       Deferred Compensation Plan  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. The
Deferred Compensation Plan is comprised of the following components, each of which is set forth in a separate document: (1) The Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component), and (2) The Union Pacific
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component).          

(g)   
       EIP  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Executive Incentive Plan, effective May 5, 2005, and as it may thereafter be amended from
time to time, and any successor executive incentive plan.          

(h)   
       Eligible Employee  shall mean an employee eligible to receive an Award who the Committee has designated as eligible to participate in this
Plan.          

(i)   
       Participant  shall mean (1) any Eligible Employee for whom credits have been or are being made hereunder, or (2) any former
Eligible Employee for whom credits have been made hereunder and who either (A) continues to be employed by the Company or an Affiliated Company, or (B) has an interest in all or a portion of his Account which has not been distributed
pursuant to Article 4.          

(j)   
       Plan  or  Non-Grandfathered Plan  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered
Component), effective as of January 1, 2009 as set forth herein, and as it may hereafter be amended from time to time.          

(k)   
       Separation from Service  shall mean a  separation from service  with the Company and all Affiliated Companies within the meaning
of Code section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder.          

(l)   
       SIP  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, effective April 20, 2001, as amended; and the Union Pacific
Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, effective April 16, 2004, and as it may thereafter be amended from time to time, or any successor stock incentive plan.      
         2   

(m)   
       Thrift Plan  shall mean the Union Pacific Corporation Thrift Plan, as in effect from time to time.      

1.4   
      Terms Defined in the Thrift Plan   - For all purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings specified in the Thrift Plan,
unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context:  Affiliated Company   Board of Directors   Code   Company   Employee   ERISA  and  Plan Year. 

1.5   
      Other Definitional Provisions   - The terms defined in Sections 1.3 and 1.4 of the Plan shall be equally applicable to both the singular and
plural forms of the terms defined. The masculine pronoun, whenever used, shall include the feminine and    vice versa   . The words  hereof,   herein  and  hereunder  and words of similar import when used
in the Plan shall refer to the Plan as a whole and not to any particular provision of the Plan, unless otherwise specified.      
         3   

ARTICLE TWO         Deferrals
and Credits         

2.1   
      Deferrals and Credits            

(a)   
      The Committee may permit an Eligible Employee to elect to make deferrals from Awards (in the case of an Award under SIP that is performance-based
compensation, as such term is defined in Code section 409A, after adjustment for dividend equivalent payments in accordance with the terms of the document establishing such Award or, in the case of an Award under EIP, a portion of the EIP Award) to
be credited under the Plan by filing an Award deferral agreement with the Committee on such form as may be prescribed by the Committee for such purpose, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may from time to time impose in its sole
discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such agreement must be filed within the period permitted under paragraph (b) below and shall authorize the Company or the Affiliated Company by which the Eligible Employee is employed to reduce the
Eligible Employee s Award as elected by the Eligible Employee as of the date determined pursuant to subparagraph (c) below. The Company shall credit such amount to the Eligible Employee s Account under the Plan.

(b)   
      Any election by an Eligible Employee to defer an Award pursuant to paragraph (a) must be made:      

(1)   
      If the Award is not performance-based compensation as defined under Code section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder, prior to the
beginning of the calendar year in which the Eligible Employee performs the services for which the Award is payable; and          

(2)   
      If the Award is performance-based compensation, as defined under Code section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder, at least six
(6) months prior to the end of the performance period to which the Award relates and before the date as of which such performance-based compensation becomes readily ascertainable, within the meaning of Code section 409A and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, provided, however, that the Eligible Employee is continuously employed from the earlier of the beginning of such performance period or the date the performance goals for such performance period are established through the
date of the deferral election.          

(c)   
      An Eligible Employee s deferral under paragraph (a) above shall be made as of the same date that such Award would have been payable to the
Eligible Employee under EIP or SIP had such Award not been deferred under the Plan. In the event the Eligible Employee satisfies the requirements for an Award under the EIP but has a Separation from Service before the date the EIP Award would have
been paid to the Eligible Employee had such Award not been deferred under the Plan, it shall nevertheless be paid in accordance with such deferral election and the terms of this Plan (including without limitation the Specified Employee Restriction
at Section 4.2) with respect to the implementation of such deferral election.      
         4   

ARTICLE THREE    
    Valuation of Accounts         

3.1   
      Establishment of Investment Funds  -  The Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion to provide a Participant with one or more
investment funds for the Participant s Account and to add, delete, consolidate, substitute or otherwise change any such investment funds from time to time as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding any other
provision of the Plan that may be interpreted to the contrary, the investment funds are to be used for measurement purposes only, and a Participant s election of any such investment fund, the allocation of the Participant s Account
thereto, the calculation of additional amounts and the crediting or debiting of such amounts to a Participant s Account shall not be considered an actual investment of a Participant s Account in any such investment fund.

3.2   
      Transfers Between Investment Funds   - Subject to such rules as the Committee may prescribe from time to time in its sole discretion, a
Participant may elect to transfer such portion of a Participant s interest in any investment fund as permitted by the Committee to any other available investment fund. Such rules may require that a Participant s Account under this
Non-Grandfathered Plan is commingled for investment purposes with any  Account  a Participant may have in the Union Pacific Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component). However, separate recordkeeping shall be
maintained with respect to the portions of the Participant s benefit in the Deferred Compensation Plan attributable to its Grandfathered and Non-Grandfathered components.      

3.3   
      Valuation and Accounting   -          

(a)   
      Each investment fund shall be valued as such times and in accordance with such method(s) of valuation as determined from time to time in the sole
discretion of the Committee, and the value of each Participant s Account shall be determined by reference to the portion of the Participant s Account allocable to each investment fund. The value of each Participant s interest in an
investment fund may be measured in units, shares or dollars.          

(b)   
      The value of a Participant s Account shall equal the aggregate value of the investment funds allocable to such Account.
     
         5   

ARTICLE FOUR         Payments

4.1   
      Payments on Separation from Service or Date Certain   -      

(a)    
      
     (1)     
        
    A Participant who fails to make a timely election described in Section 4.1(b) shall be deemed to have elected to receive the value of his Award Account at the time of
his Separation from Service in a single lump-sum payment. Subject to Section 4.2, such payment shall be made to the Participant (or if such Participant is not living at the time of payment, to such Participant s Beneficiaries) as soon as
administratively practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs or, if later, ninety (90) days after
such Separation from Service.    

(2)   
      Notwithstanding subparagraph (a)(1) above and notwithstanding the election of the Participant described in Section 4.1(b), any Award Account
established for an Award attributable to SIP to which an amount is credited under Section 2.1(c) by reason of a Participant s disability shall be paid (i) except for an Award described in clause (ii), as soon as administratively
practicable following the date on which such amount is credited to the Award Account, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year or the 15   th    day of the third calendar month following the date on which such amount is credited to the Award Account, regardless of any
election made by the Participant, and (ii) in accordance with Section 4.1(h), in the event such Award that is credited to the Award Account by reason of the Participant s disability is granted after 2013 and is performance based
compensation (as such term is defined in Code section 409A).           

(b)    
      
     (1)     
        
    A Participant who has any Award Account in the Plan as of any time during the 2008 calendar year may elect in writing, according to such rules and using such forms as may
be prescribed by the Committee, to have any such Account paid to him in one of the forms specified in paragraph (c) below, provided such Participant s Separation from Service occurs after December 31, 2008. Such election must be made
no later than December 31, 2008.    

(2)   
      A Participant who makes a deferral election under Section 2.1 for an Award made after December 31, 2008 may elect in writing, according to
such rules and using such forms as may be prescribed by the Committee, to have the Award Account attributable to such Award paid to him in one of the forms specified in paragraph (c) below. Such election must be made before the end of the
period in which to make a deferral election under Section 2.1(b) with regard to such Award.          

(c)   
      A Participant may elect to have his Award Account paid to him in accordance with one of the following payment options, subject to Sections 4.2 and 4.3:

(1)   
    A single lump sum distribution as provided in subparagraph (a) payable at the earlier of (i) July of the year selected by the Participant or
(ii) within thirty (30) days of the Participant s Separation from Service.      
         6   

(2)   
      A single lump-sum distribution as provided in subparagraph (a) payable (i) in the year of the Participant s Separation from Service or
(ii) if selected by the Participant, January of the next year following such Separation from Service;          

(3)   
      Annual installments over a period not to exceed fifteen (15) years (such installment period to be elected by the Participant), beginning
(i) as soon as administratively practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs or, if later, ninety
(90) days after such Separation from Service, or (ii) if elected by the Participant, January of the next year following such Separation from Service, with (under either option) subsequent installments paid in January of each subsequent
year, with each installment determined by dividing the value of the Participant s then-undistributed Award Account under the Non-Grandfathered Plan by the number of installments remaining to be made; or      

(4)   
      A single lump-sum distribution payable in January of a year following the Participant s Separation from Service that is not earlier than two
(2) years, and not later than fifteen (15) years following the Participant s Separation from Service, such year to be elected by the Participant. The amount of such distribution shall equal the balance in the Participant s Award
Account at such specified date. Pending the lump-sum distribution as aforesaid, the Participant s Award Account shall continue to be invested in accordance with Article Three. If the Award Account relates to amounts deferred into this Plan from
the SIP, the increase or decrease in the value of such Award Account shall be accumulated as part of the Award Account and paid out as part of such lump sum distribution. If the Award Account relates to amounts deferred into this Plan from the EIP,
then at the end of each calendar quarter following the Participant s Separation from Service, the net increase or decrease in the value of such Award Account, measured from the first valuation of such Award Account pursuant to Article Three
which coincides with or next follows the Participant s Separation from Service, shall be determined. Subject to subparagraph (d)(1)(A), the amount of any such net increase for any calendar quarter shall be distributed to the Participant within
thirty (30) days following the end of such calendar quarter.          

(d)   
      A Participant who has made the election or the deemed election described in subparagraphs (b) or (a) respectively may elect in writing to
modify the form of payment and/or the payment commencement date for any Award Account (a  modification election ) in accordance with the following rules:      

(1)   
      When a Participant s existing form of payment      
  (A)        is described in subparagraphs (a), (c)(2) or (c)(3) above, a Participant may
elect to receive the Participant s Award Account in the form set forth in paragraph (c)(2), (c)(3) and (c)(4) above, provided that any election of the form described in subparagraph (c)(4) above shall not provide separate quarterly payments of
investment income,      (B)        is described in subparagraph (c)(1) above, a
Participant may (i) elect to receive the Participant s Award Account in a single lump sum distribution in July of a later year, provided such July occurs before the Participant s Separation from Service or (ii) elect to receive
the Participant s Award Account in the form described in subparagraph (c)(2), (c)(3) or (c)(4) above, provided that any election of the form described in subsection (c)(4) above shall not provide separate payments of investment income, and
  
         7   

(C)        is described in subparagraph
(c)(4) above, a Participant may elect to receive the Participant s Account in the form described in subsection (c)(3) above or change to a later date as of which the Participant will be paid a single lump-sum under subparagraph (c)(4) above.

(2)   
      A Participant s modification election shall be made both prior to his Separation from Service and at least twelve (12) months prior to the
date on which payments would have commenced in accordance with his prior election.          

(3)   
      Notwithstanding the payment date indicated by the form of payment elected thereby, a Participant s modification election to alter the date on
which his payments will commence and/or the form in which payment is made must have the effect of postponing the payment commencement date by at least five (5) years, and shall be administered accordingly. A Participant shall be permitted to
make a modification election or elections with respect to (i) all of his Award Accounts with respect to amounts deferred from the SIP that are payable at the same time and in the same form; (ii) all of his Award Accounts with respect to
amounts deferred from the EIP that are payable at the same time and in the same form, and (iii) fifty percent (50%) of the balance as of the applicable payment date of the Award Account(s) attributable to deferrals from the SIP or EIP, as
the case may be, that are payable in accordance with subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) in the same year elected by the Participant in accordance with subparagraph 4.1(c)(1), each of which shall be considered a separately identified amount to which the
Participant is entitled to payment on a determinable date with the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-2(b)(2)(i), in accordance within such rules as may be established by the Committee for this purpose consistent with the requirements of
Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder. No such modification election shall be permitted if the payment commencement date that was previously elected was more than ten (10) years after the Participant s Separation
from Service.          

(4)   
      In the case of a Participant who desires to (A) change the method of payment from a single lump-sum distribution to annual installments, or
(B) postpone the payment commencement date of annual installments that he previously elected, the maximum number of annual installments shall be fifteen (15), minus the number of years (with a fractional year rounded up to a full year) between
the Participant s Separation from Service and the postponed payment commencement date.          

(5)   
      For purposes of this paragraph (d),         (A)        the date as of which payments to a Participant would have commenced, absent the election provided by this paragraph, shall be deemed to be the first possible date
as of which such payments could have been made to the Participant;   
  (B)        the quarterly payment of investment income provided under paragraph (c)(4)
above shall be treated as a separate form of payment from the single lump-sum distribution provided by such paragraph; and      (C)        the entitlement to a series of installment payments shall be treated as the entitlement to a single form of payment.   

(e)   
      Except with respect to an Award attributable to SIP granted after 2013 that is performance based compensation (as such term is defined in Code section
409A) in which the Participant has vested due to the Participant s death and is payable in      
         8   

accordance with Section 4.1(h)(1), on the death of a Participant who has not received payment of his full Account under this Section 4.1, the Committee shall cause the unpaid balance of
the Participant s vested account to be paid in a single lump-sum payment to such Participant s Beneficiaries. Such payment shall be made as soon as administratively practicable following completion of the first valuation of the
Participant s Account pursuant to Article Three which coincides with or next follows the Participant s date of death, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Participant s date of death occurs or, if
later, ninety (90) days after such date of death.          

(f)   
      Subject to Sections 4.2 and 4.3 and notwithstanding the deemed election or election of a Participant described in Section 4.1(a) or
(b) respectively, any Award Account established for an Award attributable to SIP, other than such an Award in which the Participant has vested due to such Participant s disability, which is granted in 2011 that is not performance-based
compensation, as defined under Code section 409A, shall be paid to a Participant:          

(1)   
      who has a Separation from Service before February 3, 2015, in a single sum as soon as administratively practicable following such date, but in no
event later than the end of the 2015 calendar year or, if later, ninety (90) days after such date or;          

(2)   
      who has a Separation from Service on or after February 3, 2015, in accordance with the payment option set forth in Section 4.1(c) and elected
by the Participant (or in accordance with Section 4.1(a) in the event the Participant fails to make such election); provided, however, that a Participant who has elected the form of payment set forth in Section 4.1(c)(1) shall be paid at
the earlier of (i) July of the year selected by the Participant that is after 2015 or (ii) within thirty (30) days of the Participant s Separation from Service.      

(g)   
      Subject to Sections 4.2 and 4.3 and notwithstanding the deemed election or election of a Participant described in Section 4.1(a) or
(b) respectively, any Award Account established for an Award attributable to SIP, other than such an Award in which the Participant has vested due to such Participant s disability, which is: (i) granted in 2011 that is performance
based compensation, as such term is defined in Code section 409A or (ii) granted after 2011 and before 2014 (regardless of whether the Award is performance based compensation), shall be paid to a Participant:      

(1)   
      who has a Separation from Service before the end of the  Restriction Period  as such term is defined in the letter agreement granting such
Award, in a single sum as soon as administratively practicable following the end of such Restriction Period, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which such Restriction Period ends or, if later, ninety (90) days after the
end of such Restriction Period; or          

(2)   
    who has a Separation from Service on or after the end of the  Restriction Period  as such term is defined in the letter agreement granting such
Award, in accordance with the payment option set forth in Section 4.1(c) and elected by the Participant (or in accordance with Section 4.1(a) in the event the Participant fails to make such election); provided, however, that a Participant
who has elected the form of payment set forth in Section 4.1(c)(1) shall be paid at the earlier of (i) July of the year selected by the Participant that is after the end of the calendar year in which such Restriction Period ends or
(ii) within thirty (30) days of Participant s Separation from Service.          

(h)   
      Subject to Sections 4.2 and 4.3 and notwithstanding the deemed election or election of a Participant described in Section 4.1 (a) or
(b) respectively, any Award Account      
         9   

established for an Award attributable to SIP granted after 2013, other than such an Award that is  both  (i)  not  performance based compensation (as defined under Code section
409A) and; (ii) vested due to the Participant s disability, shall be paid to a Participant:          

(1)   
      who has a Separation from Service before the  Restriction Period Termination Date  as such term is defined in the letter agreement granting
such Award, in a single sum as soon as administratively practicable following such Restriction Period Termination Date, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which such Restriction Period Termination Date occurs or, if later,
ninety (90) days following such Restriction Period Termination Date; or          

(2)   
      who has a Separation from Service on or after the  Restriction Period Termination Date  as such term is defined in the letter agreement
granting such Award, in accordance with the payment option set forth in Section 4.1 (c) and elected by the Participant (or in accordance with Section 4.1(a) in the event the Participant fails to make such election); provided, however,
that a Participant who has elected the form of payment set forth in Section 4.1(c)(1) shall be paid at the earlier of (i) July of the year selected by the Participant that is after the end of the calendar year in which such Restriction
Period Termination Date occurs or (ii) within thirty (30) days of Participant s Separation from Service.         With respect to an Award attributable to SIP granted after 2013 which is not performance based compensation and is vested due to the Participant s disability, such Award shall, notwithstanding the election of
the Participant described in Section 4.1(b), be paid in accordance with Section 4.1(a)(2).       

4.2   
      Specified Employee Restriction     Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, no payment shall be made to a  specified
employee  (as determined in accordance with a uniform policy adopted by the Company with respect to all arrangements subject to Section 409A of the Code maintained by the Company and its Affiliated Companies) on account of such specified
employee s Separation from Service until six (6) months plus one day following such specified employee s Separation from Service; provided however, in the event of the specified employee s death before his payment commencement
date, this provision shall not prevent payment of death benefits at the time prescribed by Section 4.1(e).          

4.3   
      Additional Restrictions on Payment Options     Notwithstanding anything in Section 4.1 to the contrary; except, however the last
sentence of subparagraph 4.1(a):          

(a)   
      the Participant may always elect the payment option described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) (providing for payment as of a specified date prior to
Separation from Service) with respect to amounts to be deferred to an Award Account, regardless of the payment options the Participant may have elected with respect to any Award Accounts previously established under this Non-Grandfathered Plan.

(b)   
      with regard to the payment options described in subparagraphs 4.1(c)(2), 4.1(c)(3) or 4.1(c)(4) (each providing for payment following Separation
from Service and henceforth referred to as the  Separation Payment Options ), the Participant may elect only one such Separation Payment Option with respect to (i) all Award Accounts consisting of amounts deferred into this Plan from
the SIP and (ii) all Award Accounts consisting of amounts deferred into this Plan from the EIP (other than, in each case, Award Accounts for which the payment option described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) has been elected). A
Participant s initial election of a Separation Payment Option, with respect to amounts deferred from the SIP or EIP, as the case may be, shall apply to all subsequent deferrals from the SIP or EIP, as applicable, unless the Participant elects
the payment option described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) for such subsequent deferral.      
         10   

(c)   
      a Participant s modification election made in accordance with Section 4.1(d) may not change the form of payment of an Award Account from a
Separation Payment Option to the form of payment described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1). In addition, any change to a different Separation Payment Option must apply to all Award Accounts attributable to deferrals from the SIP or EIP, as the case
may be, for which a Separation Payment Option has been elected.          

(d)   
      in the event an Award Account is to be paid in accordance with the payment option described in subparagraph 4.1(c)(1) prior to the Participant having a
Separation from Service, and at the time of such payment the Company reasonably anticipates that its deduction with respect to the Award Account payable to such Participant would be reduced or eliminated by Code section 162(m), such payment shall be
delayed until the Company s first taxable year in which it reasonably anticipates that its deduction of such payment will not be reduced or eliminated by Code Section 162(m), and following such determination will then be paid in a single
lump-sum distribution as soon as administratively practicable in such taxable year.          

4.4   
      Responsibility for Payments     All payments attributable to credits made hereunder on behalf of a Participant shall be made by the Company
on its own behalf or on behalf of the Affiliated Company by who such Participant was employed when such credits were made. Such Affiliated Company shall reimburse the Company for all amounts paid on its behalf.      
         11   

ARTICLE FIVE    
    Administration         

5.1   
      Responsibilities and Powers of the Committee   - The Committee shall be solely responsible for the operation and administration of the Plan and
shall have all powers necessary and appropriate to carry out its responsibilities in operating and administering the Plan. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall have the responsibility and power to interpret the Plan,
to make factual determinations and to determine whether a credit should be made on behalf of a Participant, the amount of the credit and the value of the amount so credited on any subsequent date. The determination of the Committee, made in good
faith, shall be conclusive and binding on all persons, including Participants and their Beneficiaries. The Committee may delegate part or all of its authority to operate and administer the Plan to: (i) prior to March 1, 2013 the Senior
Vice President-Human Resources of the Company; and (ii) on and after March 1, 2013 the Vice President-Human Resources of Union Pacific Railroad Company or such other officer or employee of Union Pacific Railroad Company or the Company with
similar authority, and may grant authority to such person to execute agreements or other documents relating to the administration of the Plan as such person deems necessary or appropriate.      

5.2   
      Outside Services   - The Committee may engage counsel and such clerical, medical, financial, investment, accounting and other specialized services
as its may deem necessary or desirable to the operation and administration of the Plan. The Committee shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in any action or determination or omission taken or made or omitted in good faith in so
relying, upon any opinions, reports or other advice which is furnished by counsel or other specialist engaged for that purpose.          

5.3   
      Indemnification   - The Company shall indemnify the members of the Committee against any and all claims, loss, damages, expense (including
reasonable counsel fees) and liability arising from any action or failure to act or other conduct in the Committee member s official capacity, except when the same is due to her own gross negligence or willful misconduct.

5.4   
      Claims Procedures   - The claims procedures set forth in Article XIII of the Thrift Plan shall apply to any claim for benefits hereunder,
subject to such changes as the Committee deems necessary or appropriate.      
         12   

ARTICLE SIX         Amendment
and Termination         

6.1   
      Amendment   - The Board of Directors reserves the right at any time and from time to time, and retroactively if deemed necessary or appropriate to
conform with governmental regulations or other policies, to modify or amend in whole or in part any or all of the provisions of the Plan. In addition, (i) prior to March 1, 2013 the Senior Vice President-Human Resources of the Company; and
(ii) on and after March 1, 2013 the Vice President-Human Resources of Union Pacific Railroad Company or such other officer or employee of Union Pacific Railroad Company or the Company with similar authority, may make (a) all
technical, administrative, regulatory and compliance amendments to the Plan or (b) any other amendment to the Plan that will not significantly increase the cost of the Plan to the Company as he or she deems necessary or appropriate.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, no amendment shall operate to reduce the accrued benefit of any individual who is a Participant at the time the amendment is adopted.      

6.2   
      Termination   - The Plan is purely voluntary and the Board of Directors reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time, provided, however,
that the termination shall not operate to reduce the accrued benefit of any individual who is a Participant at the time the Plan is terminated.      
         13   

ARTICLE SEVEN         General
Provisions         

7.1   
      Source of Payments   - The Plan shall not be funded and all payments hereunder to Participants and their Beneficiaries shall be paid from the
general assets of the Company. The Company shall not, by virtue of any provisions of the Plan or by any action of any person hereunder, be deemed to be a trustee or other fiduciary of any property for any Participant or his Beneficiaries and the
liabilities of the Company to any Participant or his Beneficiaries pursuant to the Plan shall be those of a debtor only pursuant to such contractual obligations as are created by the Plan and no such obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be
secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the Company. To the extent that any Participant or his Beneficiaries acquire a right to receive a payment from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of
any unsecured general creditor of the Company.          

7.2   
      No Warranties   - Neither the Committee nor the Company warrants or represents in any way that the value of each Participant s Account will
increase or not decrease. Such Participant assumes all risk in connection with any change in such value.          

7.3   
      Inalienability of Benefits   - No benefit payable under, or interest in, the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation,
sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any attempt to do so shall be void; nor shall any such benefit or interest be in any manner liable for or subject to garnishment, attachment, execution or levy or liable for or subject to
the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any Participant or his Beneficiaries. In the event that the Committee shall find that any Participant or his Beneficiaries has become bankrupt or that any attempt has been made to
anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any benefit payable under, or interest in, the Plan, the Committee shall hold or apply such benefit or interest or any part thereof to or for the benefit of such Participant or
his Beneficiaries, his spouse, children, parents or other relatives or any of them.          

7.4   
      Expenses   - The Company shall pay all costs and expenses incurred in operating and administering the Plan, including the expense of any counsel
or other specialist engaged by the Committee.          

7.5   
      No Right of Employment   - Nothing herein contained nor any action taken under the provisions hereof shall be construed as giving any Participant
the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliated Company.          

7.6   
      Limitations on Obligations   - Neither the Company, nor any Affiliated Company, nor any officer or employee of either, nor any member of the Board
of Directors nor the Committee shall be responsible or liable in any manner to any Participant, Beneficiary or any person claiming through them for any action taken or omitted in connection with the granting of benefits or the interpretation and
administration of the Plan.          

7.7   
      Withholding   - The Company shall, on its own behalf or on behalf of the Affiliated Companies, withhold from any payment hereunder the required
amounts of income and other taxes.          

7.8   
      Headings   - The headings of the Sections in the Plan are placed herein for convenience of reference and, in the case of any conflict, the text of
the Plan, rather than such heading, shall control.          

7.9   
      Construction   - The Plan shall be construed, regulated and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the
choice of law principles thereof.      
         14   

7.10   
      Payments to Minors, Etc.   - Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting
therefor shall be deemed paid when paid to such person s guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person and such payment shall fully discharge the Committee, the Company, all Affiliated
Companies and all other parties with respect thereto.      
         15   

</EX-10.(E)>

<EX-12>
 7
 d668613dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12        RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies    

95   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 d668613dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21        SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES OF UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        

Name of Corporation   
      
  State of Incorporation  

Union Pacific Railroad Company   

Delaware  

Southern Pacific Rail Corporation   

Utah  

96   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 d668613dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 33-12513, Registration Statement No. 33-53968, Registration Statement No. 33-49785, Registration Statement No. 33-49849, Registration Statement
No. 333-10797, Registration Statement No. 333-13115, Registration Statement No. 333-88709, Registration Statement No. 333-61856, Registration Statement No. 333-42768, Registration Statement No. 333-106707, Registration
Statement No. 333-106708, Registration Statement No. 333-105714, Registration Statement No. 333-105715, Registration Statement No. 333-116003, Registration Statement No. 333-132324, Registration Statement
No. 333-155708, Registration Statement No. 333-170209, Registration Statement No. 333-170208, and Registration No. 333-188761 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement No. 333-164842 and Registration No. 333-186548 on Form
S-3 of our reports dated February 7, 2014, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) and the effectiveness of the
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies for the year ended December 31, 2013.   

Omaha, Nebraska      February 7,
2014   
         97   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 10
 d668613dex24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Powers of Attorney    
  Each of the undersigned directors of Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the Company), do hereby appoint each of John J. Koraleski,
Diane K. Duren, and James J. Theisen, Jr. his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, to sign on his or her behalf the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2013, and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have
executed this Power of Attorney as of February 6, 2014.       

/s/ Andrew H. Card, Jr.     Andrew H. Card, Jr.   

/s/ Michael R. McCarthy     Michael R. McCarthy    

/s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.     Erroll B. Davis, Jr.   

/s/ Michael W. McConnell     Michael W. McConnell    

/s/ Thomas J. Donohue     Thomas J. Donohue   

/s/ Thomas F. McLarty III     Thomas F. McLarty III    

/s/ Archie W. Dunham     Archie W. Dunham   

/s/ Steven R. Rogel     Steven R. Rogel    

/s/ Judith Richards Hope     Judith Richards Hope   

/s/ Jose H. Villarreal     Jose H. Villarreal    

/s/ Charles C. Krulak     Charles C. Krulak   

/s/ James R. Young     James R. Young    
 
         98   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 11
 d668613dex31a.htm
 EX-31.(A)

EX-31.(a) 

Exhibit 31(a)        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER       I, John J. Koraleski, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 7, 2014       /s/ John J. Koraleski       John J. Koraleski   
  President and      Chief Executive Officer   
         99   

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 12
 d668613dex31b.htm
 EX-31.(B)

EX-31.(b) 

Exhibit 31(b)        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER       I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., certify that:
     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 7, 2014   
   /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.       Robert M. Knight, Jr.      Executive Vice President   Finance and   
  Chief Financial Officer   
         100   

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32>
 13
 d668613dex32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

Exhibit 32        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    
   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the Report), I, John J. Koraleski, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of
my knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ John J. Koraleski       John J. Koraleski      President and   
  Chief Executive Officer      Union
Pacific Corporation      February 7, 2014      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO    
   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending
December 31, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.       Robert M. Knight, Jr.      Executive Vice President - Finance and   
  Chief Financial Officer      Union
Pacific Corporation      February 7, 2014      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.   
         101   

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 unp-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 unp-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 unp-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 unp-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 unp-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 unp-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

