<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080221_10-K_edgar_data_731766_0001193125-08-035391_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1794764</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>471440</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>134602</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>981721</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>62</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-035391.hdr.sgml : 20080221
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080221171248
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-035391
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080221
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000731766
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS [6324]
		IRS NUMBER:				411321939
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10864
		FILM NUMBER:		08633678

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CENTER
		STREET 2:		9900 BREN ROAD EAST
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55343
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9529361300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9900 BREN ROAD EAST
		CITY:			MINNETONKA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55343

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000309

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Hx3zf4sKkgo52+F12vdCroh7cZD8gTrAHXS+t+/8SNMSnv+OamvLus+66Ar6zSR1
 e07XvMENJUOY0l+wa8Z2Tg==

 0001193125-08-035391.txt : 20080221

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              
   FORM 10-K                  (Mark One)    
     OR        
     Commission file number: 1-10864                  UNITEDHEALTH GROUP
INCORPORATED        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                  

MINNESOTA   
     
   41-1321939    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP CENTER       9900 BREN ROAD EAST       MINNETONKA, MINNESOTA    
     
   55343    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (952) 936-1300                  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE   
     
   NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC.    
 
   (Title of each class)   
     
   (Name of each exchange on which registered)    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE                 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by checkmark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer        
      
  Accelerated filer        
 
    Non-accelerated filer        
      
  Smaller reporting company        
 
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 29, 2007, was $67,267,773,208 (based on the last reported sale price of $51.14 per share on June 29, 2007, on the New York Stock
Exchange).*      As of February 15, 2008, there were 1,251,382,699 shares of the registrant s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, issued and
outstanding.      Note that in Part III of this report on Form 10-K, we  incorporate by reference  certain information from our Definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 5, 2008. This document will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) within the time period permitted by the SEC. The SEC allows us to disclose important
information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information.       

*  
  Only shares of voting stock held beneficially by directors, executive officers and subsidiaries of the Company have been excluded in determining this number.

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

PART I  

Item 1.   

Business    
      
  1   

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors    
      
  14   

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  14   

Item 2.   

Properties    
      
  14   

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings    
      
  14   

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  14   

PART II  

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  15   

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data    
      
  19   

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  20   

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    
      
  50   

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  51   

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  88   

Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures    
      
  88   

Item 9B.   

Other Information    
      
  91   

PART III  

Item 10.   

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  91   

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation    
      
  91   

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  91   

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence    
      
  92   

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  92   

PART IV  

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  93   

Signatures     
      
  97   

Exhibit Index     
      
  99   

PART I        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS          INTRODUCTION        Overview       UnitedHealth Group Incorporated is a diversified health and
well-being company, serving approximately 70 million Americans (the terms  we,   our,   us  or the  Company  used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and our subsidiaries). Our focus
is on enhancing the performance of the health system and improving the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities. We work with approximately 560,000 physicians and other health care professionals, approximately 4,800
hospitals and other key partners to expand access to high quality health care. We help people get the care they need at an affordable cost, support the physician/patient relationship, and empower people with the information, guidance and tools they
need to make personal health choices and decisions.      During 2007, we managed approximately $100 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the
constituents and consumers we served. Our primary focus is on improving the health care system by simplifying the administrative components of health care delivery, promoting evidence-based medicine as the standard for care, and providing relevant,
actionable data that physicians, health care professionals, consumers, employers and other participants in health care can use to make better, more informed decisions.      Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced technology-based transactional capabilities; health care data, knowledge and information; and health care resource organization
and care facilitation to improve access to health and well-being services, simplify the health care experience, promote quality and make health care more affordable.      Our revenues are derived from premium revenues on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services; sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad
health and well-being industry; and investment and other income. Until the fourth quarter of 2007, we conducted our business primarily through operating groups in the following segments:       

Health Care Services, which included our UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice businesses;          

Uniprise;          

OptumHealth, which reflects the rebranding of Specialized Care Services during the third quarter of 2007; and          

Ingenix.         During the fourth quarter of 2007, we
completed the transition to our new segment reporting structure which reflects how our chief operating decision maker now manages our business. Our new reporting structure has four reporting segments:       

Health Care Services, which now includes our Commercial Markets (UnitedHealthcare and Uniprise), Ovations and AmeriChoice businesses;      

OptumHealth;          

Ingenix; and          

Prescription Solutions (formerly included in the Ovations business).         For a discussion of our financial results by segment, see Item 7    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.          
   1   

Additional Information       UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300.
     You can access our website at  www.unitedhealthgroup.com  to learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our
annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and
corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit
your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary.      Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo
Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at:
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, email  stocktransfer@wellsfargo.com , or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064.       DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS        HEALTH CARE SERVICES       Our Health Care Services segment consists of the following businesses: Commercial Markets (UnitedHealthcare and Uniprise), Ovations and AmeriChoice. The financial results
of Commercial Markets, Ovations and AmeriChoice have been aggregated in the Health Care Services reporting segment due to their similar economic characteristics, products and services, types of customers, distribution methods and operational
processes, and regulatory environment. These businesses also share significant common assets, including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other
resources.        Commercial Markets          UnitedHealthcare.   UnitedHealthcare offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for public sector and small and mid-sized private sector employers, and individuals nationwide.
UnitedHealthcare facilitated access to health care services on behalf of nearly 15 million Americans as of December 31, 2007. With its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs
for its customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically at a fixed rate for a one-year period. UnitedHealthcare also provides administrative and other management services to customers that self-insure the medical costs of their
employees and their dependents, for which UnitedHealthcare receives a fixed service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and their dependents, while UnitedHealthcare provides
coordination and facilitation of medical services, customer and health care professional services and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals. Small employer groups are more likely to purchase
risk-based products because they are less willing to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures. UnitedHealthcare also offers a variety of non-employer based insurance options for purchase by individuals, which are designed to
meet the health coverage needs of these consumers and their families.      UnitedHealthcare offers its products through affiliates that are usually licensed as
insurance companies or as health maintenance organizations (HMOs). UnitedHealthcare s product strategy centers on several principles: consumer choice, broad access to health professionals, use of data and science to promote better outcomes,

2   

quality service and affordability. Integrated wellness programs and services help individuals make informed decisions, maintain a healthy lifestyle and
optimize health outcomes by coordinating access to care services and providing personalized, targeted education and information services.      UnitedHealthcare
arranges for discounted access to care through approximately 560,000 physicians and other health care professionals, and 4,800 hospitals across the United States. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals UnitedHealth Group
serves makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals. Directly or through UnitedHealth Group s family of companies, UnitedHealthcare offers:   

A comprehensive range of benefit plans integrating medical, ancillary and alternative care products so customers can choose benefits that are right for them;

Affordability across a broad set of price points and a wide product line, from offerings covering essential needs to comprehensive benefit plans, all of which offer
access to our broad-based proprietary network of contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals with economic benefits reflective of the aggregate purchasing capacity of our organization;          

Innovative clinical programs   built around an extensive clinical data set and the principles of evidence-based medicine;          

Consumer access to information about physician and hospital claims-based performance assessment through the UnitedHealth Premium program;

Physician and facility access to performance feedback information to support continuous quality improvement;          

Care facilitation services that use several identification tools, including proprietary predictive technology to identify individuals with significant gaps in care
and unmet needs or risks for potential health problems, and then facilitate appropriate interventions;          

Disease and condition management programs to help individuals address significant, complex disease states; and          

Convenient self-service tools for health transactions and information.         UnitedHealthcare s regional and national access to broad, affordable and quality networks of health care professionals has advanced over the past several years, with significant increases in access to services
throughout the United States. UnitedHealthcare has also organized health care alliances with select regional not-for-profit health plans to facilitate greater customer access and affordability.      We believe that UnitedHealthcare s innovation distinguishes its product offerings from its competition. Its consumer-oriented health benefits and services value
individual choice and control in accessing health care. UnitedHealthcare has programs that provide health education, admission counseling before hospital stays, care advocacy to help avoid delays in patients  stays in the hospital, support for
individuals at risk of needing intensive treatment and coordination of care for people with chronic conditions. Data-driven networks and clinical management are organized around clinical lines of service such as behavioral health; cardiology;
congenital heart disease; kidney disease; oncology; neuroscience; orthopedics; spine; women s health; primary care and transplantation to provide consumers with the necessary resources and information to make more informed choices when managing
their health. UnitedHealthcare also offers comprehensive and integrated pharmaceutical management services that achieve lower costs by using formulary programs that drive better unit costs for drugs, benefit designs that encourage consumers to use
drugs that offer the best value and outcomes, and physician and consumer programs that support the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence.      UnitedHealthcare s distribution system consists primarily of brokers and direct and Internet marketing sales in the individual market; brokers in the small employer group market; and brokers and other consultant-based or  
       
   3   

direct sales for large employer and public sector groups. UnitedHealthcare s direct distribution efforts are generally limited to the individual market,
portions of the large employer group and public sector markets, and cross-selling of specialty products to existing customers.        Uniprise.
  Uniprise delivers health care and well-being services nationwide to large national employers, individual consumers and other health care organizations through two related business units: Uniprise Strategic Solutions (USS) and Definity
Health. Each business unit works with other UnitedHealth Group businesses to deliver a complementary and integrated array of services. USS delivers strategic health and well-being solutions to large national employers. Definity Health provides
consumer-driven health plans and services to employers and their employees. As of December 31, 2007, USS and Definity Health served approximately 11.1 million individuals.      Uniprise provides innovative and customized benefit solutions   supported by clinically integrated care coordination services, customized care engagement programs, wellness and preventive care programs,
broad and appropriate access to health care professionals, negotiated cost savings and simplified, efficient administration  that offer meaningful financial value and promote quality health outcomes. Uniprise has the ability to link disparate
service and affordability solutions across the United States through a single and scalable system infrastructure, providing a unique competitive advantage in the national employer services business.      USS provides comprehensive and customized administrative, benefits and service solutions for large employers and other organizations with more than 5,000 full-time
employees in multiple locations. USS customers generally retain the risk of financing the medical benefits of their employees and their dependents and USS provides coordination and facilitation of medical services; transaction processing; consumer
and health care professional services; and access to contracted networks of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals for a fixed service fee per individual served. As of December 31, 2007, USS served 415 employers, including
175 of the  Fortune 500  companies.      Definity Health provides innovative consumer health care solutions that enable consumers to take ownership and
control of their health care benefits. Definity Health s products include high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans coupled with Health Reimbursement Accounts (HRAs) or Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), and are offered on a self-funded and
fully insured basis. Definity Health is a national leader in consumer-driven health benefit programs and, as of December 31, 2007, its products were provided to approximately 23,000 group health plans across the UnitedHealth Group enterprise,
including approximately 170 employers in the large group USS self-funded market.        Ovations        Ovations provides health and well-being services for individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services as well as
for services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. Ovations is one of a few enterprises fully dedicated to this market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Ovations participates nationally in the Medicare program, offering a wide-ranging spectrum of Medicare products, including Medigap
products that supplement traditional fee-for-service coverage, more traditional health-plan-type programs under Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage, and special offerings for beneficiaries who are chronically ill and/or
Medicare and Medicaid dual-eligible.      Ovations has extensive capabilities and experience with distribution, including direct marketing to consumers on
behalf of its key clients   AARP, the nation s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, state and U.S. government agencies and employer groups. Ovations also has distinct pricing, underwriting and
clinical program management, and marketing capabilities dedicated to risk-based health products and services in the senior and geriatric markets.         
   4   

We currently have a number of contracts with Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS), which
primarily relate to the Medicare health benefit programs authorized under the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act. Beginning January 1, 2006, we began serving as a plan sponsor offering Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance coverage. In
total, consolidated premium revenues from CMS were approximately 25% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, most of which were generated by Ovations.            Secure Horizons.   Secure Horizons provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare
Advantage program administered by CMS. Secure Horizons offers Medicare Advantage HMO, preferred provider organization (PPO), Special Needs Plans, Point-of-Service (POS) plans, and Private-Fee-for-Service plans. Under the Medicare Advantage programs,
Secure Horizons provides health insurance coverage to eligible Medicare beneficiaries in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS that varies based on the geographic areas in which members reside, demographic factors such as age,
gender, and institutionalized status, and the health status of the individual. Most products are offered under the  AARP Medicare Complete provided through Secure Horizons  brand name. Secure Horizons offers Medicare Advantage products in
all 50 states. As of December 31, 2007, Secure Horizons had approximately 1.3 million enrolled individuals in its Medicare Advantage products.        Ovations Part D.   Ovations provides the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Part D) to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories. Among the several Part D plans it offers, Ovations provides Medicare Part D
coverage plans with the AARP brand. Ovations provides Part D drug coverage through its Medicare Advantage program, Special Needs Plans (covering individuals who live in an institutional long-term care setting, dually eligible or individuals with
severe or disabling chronic conditions) and stand-alone Part D plans. As of December 31, 2007, Ovations had enrolled approximately 6.0 million members in the Part D program, including approximately 4.7 million in the stand-alone Part
D plans and approximately 1.3 million in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Part D coverage.        Insurance Solutions.   Insurance
Solutions offers a range of health insurance products and services to AARP members, and has expanded the scope of services and programs offered over the past several years. Ovations provides standardized Medicare supplement and hospital indemnity
insurance from its insurance company affiliates to approximately 3.8 million AARP members. Additional Ovations services include a nurse healthline service, a lower cost standardized Medicare supplement offering that provides consumers with a
national hospital network, 24-hour access to health care information, and access to discounted health services from a network of physicians.        Evercare.   Evercare is one of the nation s leaders in offering complete, individualized care planning and care benefits for aging, disabled and chronically ill individuals. Evercare serves approximately 195,000 people
(including 145,000 with Medicare Advantage) across the nation in long-term care settings including nursing homes, community-based settings and private homes, as well as through hospice and palliative care. Evercare offers services through innovative
care management and clinical programs.      Evercare integrates federal, state and private funding through a continuum of products from Special Needs Plans and
long-term care Medicaid programs to hospice care, and serves people in 38 markets in home, community and nursing home settings. These services are provided primarily through nurse practitioners, nurses and care managers. Evercare operated Special
Needs Plans in 37 states as of December 31, 2007.      Evercare Solutions for Caregivers is a comprehensive eldercare service program providing service
coordination, consultation, claim management and information resources nationwide. Proprietary, automated medical record software enables the Evercare clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a
comprehensive set of coherent care information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings for high-risk populations. Evercare also operates hospice and palliative care programs in ten states (14 markets).        AmeriChoice        AmeriChoice provides network-based health and
well-being services to beneficiaries of State Medicaid Children s Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP), and other government-sponsored health care programs.  
       
   5   

AmeriChoice provides health insurance coverage to eligible Medicaid beneficiaries in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from the applicable
state. At December 31, 2007, AmeriChoice provided services to approximately 1.7 million individuals in 16 states. AmeriChoice also offers government agencies a number of diverse management service programs   including clinical care,
consulting and management, pharmacy benefit services and administrative and technology services   to help them effectively administer their distinct health care delivery systems and benefits for individuals in their programs. AmeriChoice also
contracts with CMS for the provision of Special Needs Plans serving individuals dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare services. These programs are primarily organized toward enrolling individuals who dually qualify for Medicaid and Medicare
coverage in states where AmeriChoice operates its Medicaid health plans.      AmeriChoice s approach is grounded in its belief that health care cannot be
provided effectively without considering all of the factors   social, economic, environmental, and physical   that affect a person s life. AmeriChoice coordinates resources among family members, physicians, other health care
professionals and government and community-based agencies and organizations to provide continuous and effective care. For members, this means that the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model offers them a holistic approach to health care, emphasizing
practical programs to improve their living circumstances as well as quality medical care and treatment in accessible, culturally sensitive, community-oriented settings. For example, AmeriChoice s disease management and outreach programs focus
on high-prevalence and debilitating illnesses such as hypertension and cardiovascular disease, asthma, sickle cell disease, diabetes, Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS), cancer and high-risk pregnancy.
Several of these programs have been developed by AmeriChoice with the help of leading researchers and clinicians at academic medical centers and medical schools.      For physicians, the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model means assistance with coordination of their patients  care. AmeriChoice utilizes sophisticated technology to monitor preventive care interventions and evidence-based treatment
protocols to support care management. AmeriChoice operates advanced and unique pharmacy administrative services   including benefit design, generic drug programs, drug utilization review and preferred drug list development   to optimize
the use of appropriate quality pharmaceuticals and concurrently manage pharmacy expenditures to levels appropriate to the specific clinical situations. For state customers, the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model means increased access to care and
improved quality for their beneficiaries, in a measurable system that reduces their administrative burden and lowers their costs.      AmeriChoice considers a
variety of factors in determining in which state programs to participate and on what basis, including the state s experience and consistency of support for its Medicaid program in terms of service innovation and funding, the population base in
the state, the willingness of the physician/provider community to participate with the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model, and the presence of community-based organizations that can partner with AmeriChoice to meet the needs of its members. Using these
criteria, AmeriChoice entered three new markets in 2006, expanded in one existing market in 2007, and is examining several others. AmeriChoice is also a subcontractor for the Healthy Indiana Plan, a health care reform plan designed to increase
access to health care benefits for Indiana residents.       OPTUMHEALTH       OptumHealth reaches approximately 58 million individuals with its diversified offering of health, financial and ancillary benefit services and products that assist consumers in navigating the health care system
and accessing services, support their emotional health, provide ancillary insurance benefits and facilitate the financing of health care services through account-based programs. OptumHealth seeks to simplify the consumer health care experience and
facilitate the efficient and effective delivery of care. Its capabilities can be deployed individually or integrated to provide comprehensive, consumer-focused health and financial well-being solutions.      OptumHealth s simple, modular service designs can be easily integrated to meet varying health plan, employer and consumer needs at a wide range of price points.
OptumHealth offers its products on an administrative fee  
       
   6   

basis where it manages and administers benefit claims for self-insured customers in exchange for a fixed fee per individual served, and on a risk basis,
where OptumHealth assumes responsibility for health care and income replacement costs in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per individual served. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on
managed funds.      During 2007, OptumHealth began marketing most of its products under a single brand. Its products are distributed through the three
strategic markets that it serves: the employer market for both UnitedHealth Group customers and unaffiliated parties; the payer market for Health Care Services health plans, independent health plans, third-party administrators and reinsurers; and
the public sector market for Medicare and state Medicaid offerings through partnerships with Ovations, AmeriChoice and other intermediaries. Approximately 50 percent of the consumers that OptumHealth serves receive their major medical health
benefits from a source other than UnitedHealth Group.      OptumHealth is organized into four major groups: Care Solutions, Behavioral Solutions, Specialty
Benefits and Financial Services (Exante).        Care Solutions        Care Solutions serves approximately 40 million consumers through tailored programs designed to improve health and well-being, and improve clinical outcomes. It delivers its services through the use of
evidenced-based best practices, technology and specially trained nurses. Its clinically focused product portfolio includes programs focused on disease management, care advocacy, complex condition management, such as cancer, solid organ transplant,
infertility and congenital heart disease, and wellness. To support its complex condition management programs, Care Solutions negotiates competitive rates with centers that have been designated as  Centers of Excellence  based on their
satisfaction of clinical standards, including patient volumes and outcomes, medical team credentials and experience, and patient and family support services.      Care Solutions also provides benefit administration, and clinical and network management for chiropractic, physical therapy, occupational therapy and other complementary and alternative care services through its national network consisting
of approximately 22,000 chiropractors, 15,000 physical and occupational therapists and 7,000 complementary and alternative health professionals. Care Solutions also offers treatment decision support, consumer health information, private health
portals and consumer health marketing services to address daily living concerns and assist individuals in accessing the health care system.        Behavioral Solutions        Behavioral Solutions serves 35 million individuals with its employee assistance programs, work/life
offerings, and clinically driven behavioral health, substance abuse and psychiatric disability management programs. Its consumer-focused programs employ predictive modeling, outcomes management, supportive coaching and evidenced-based best practices
to assist individuals in managing stress, depression, substance abuse and other personal challenges while seeking to increase overall health, wellness and productivity. Its outreach programs promote timely detection and intervention to optimize the
treatment for people struggling with both psychological and medical conditions. Behavioral Solutions customers have access to a national network of approximately 80,000 clinicians and counselors and 3,000 facilities.        Specialty Benefits        Specialty Benefits includes dental,
vision, life, critical illness, short-term disability and stop loss product offerings delivered through an integrated platform that enhances efficiency and effectiveness. Approximately 13.5 million individuals receive their vision benefits
through Specialty Benefits and its network of approximately 30,000 vision professionals in private and retail settings. Dental benefit management and related services are provided to six million consumers through a network of approximately 85,000
dentists. Stop-loss insurance is marketed throughout the United States through a network of third-party administrators, brokers and consultants.         
   7   

Financial Services (Exante)        Financial services were provided through Exante Bank and Exante Financial Services in 2007. During the first half of 2008, we expect to change their name to OptumHealth Bank and OptumHealth Financial Services.
Financial services provides health-based financial services for consumers, employers, payers and health care professionals. These financial services include HSAs, HRAs, and Flexible Spending Accounts offered through Exante Bank, a
Utah-chartered industrial bank. Financial Services  health benefit card programs include electronic systems for verification of benefit coverage and eligibility. Financial Services also provides electronic payment and statement
services for health care professionals and payers.       INGENIX       Ingenix offers database and data management services, software products, publications, consulting services, outsourced services and pharmaceutical consulting and research services in conjunction with the development of pharmaceutical
products on a nationwide and international basis. As of December 31, 2007, Ingenix s customers include approximately 5,000 hospitals, 240,000 physicians, 1,500 payers and intermediaries, 245  Fortune 500  companies, 250 life sciences
companies, and 150 government entities, as well as other UnitedHealth Group businesses.      Ingenix is engaged in the simplification of health care
administration with information and technology. Ingenix helps customers accurately and efficiently document, code and bill for the delivery of care services. It also sells reference materials and coding guides that health care professionals use to
bill payers for their services. Ingenix uses data to help advance transparency on cost and quality and help customers streamline their processes to make health care more efficient. Ingenix is a leader in contract research services, and
pharmacoeconomics, outcomes, drug safety and epidemiology research through its i3 businesses.      Ingenix s products and services are sold primarily
through a direct sales force focused on specific customers and market segments across the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, employer, government, hospital, physician, payer and property and casualty insurance market segments. Ingenix s products
are also supported and distributed through an array of alliance and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface its products with their applications.      The Ingenix companies are divided into two groups: Information Services and i3.        Information Services
       Information Services  diverse product offerings help clients strengthen health care administration and advance health care outcomes. These
products include health care utilization reporting and analytics, physician clinical performance benchmarking, clinical data warehousing, analysis and management responses for medical cost trend management, physician practice revenue cycle
management, revenue cycle management for payer and health care professional organizations, decision-support portals for evaluation of health benefits and treatment options, and claims management tools for administrative error and cost reduction.
Ingenix uses proprietary software applications that manage clinical and administrative data across diverse information technology environments. Ingenix also uses proprietary predictive algorithmic applications to help clients detect and act on
repetitive health care patterns in large data sets. Ingenix offers comprehensive Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) services helping health care professionals and payers decrease costs of claims transmission, payment and reimbursement through both
networked and direct connection services.      Information Services provides other services on an outsourced basis, such as verification of physician
credentials, health care professional directories, Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set reporting, and fraud and abuse detection and prevention services. Ingenix also offers consulting services, including actuarial and financial  
       
   8   

advisory work through its Ingenix Consulting division and health care policy research, implementation, strategy and management consulting through its
subsidiary, The Lewin Group, as well as product development, health care professional contracting and medical policy management. Ingenix also provides health care IT consulting for health care professionals. Ingenix publishes print and electronic
media products that provide customers with information regarding medical claims coding, reimbursement, billing and compliance issues.        i3   
     i3 helps to coordinate and manage clinical trials on a nationwide and international basis for products in development for pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies. i3 s focus is to help pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers effectively and efficiently get drug and medical device data to appropriate regulatory bodies and to improve health outcomes through integrated information, analysis
and technology. i3 s capabilities and efforts focus on the entire range of product assessment, through commercialization of life-cycle management services   pipeline assessment, market access and product positioning, clinical trials,
economic, epidemiology and safety and outcomes research. i3 s services include global contract research services, protocol development, investigator identification and training, regulatory assistance, project management, data management,
biostatistical analysis, quality assurance, medical writing and staffing resource services. i3 delivers contract research services in 58 countries and is therapeutically focused on oncology, the central nervous system, respiratory and infectious
diseases, and endocrinology. i3 uses comprehensive, science-based evaluation and analysis and benchmarking services to support pharmaceutical and biotechnology development.       PRESCRIPTION SOLUTIONS       Prescription Solutions was established as a reporting segment during the fourth quarter
of 2007, and offers a comprehensive suite of integrated pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services to approximately 10.3 million people, through approximately 64,000 retail network pharmacies and two mail service facilities as of
December 31, 2007. Prescription Solutions processed approximately 300 million retail and mail service claims during 2007. Prescriptions Solutions markets include Health Care Services health plans, external employer groups,
union trusts, seniors (Part D, Secure Horizons and Evercare) and commercial health plans.      Prescription Solutions  integrated PBM services
include retail network pharmacy management, mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, benefit design consultation, drug utilization review, formulary management programs, disease management and compliance and therapy management
programs. Prescription Solutions  products and services are designed to enhance clinical outcomes with appropriate financial results for those served. The fulfillment capabilities of Prescription Solutions are an important strategic
component in serving commercial and senior business, including Part D members.      Prescription Solutions  distribution system consists primarily of
brokers and other consultant-based or direct sales. Effective January 1, 2007, Prescription Solutions began providing PBM services to an additional four million Ovations Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Part D members. Prescription
Solutions  growing Consumer Health Products business distributes diabetic testing supplies and other specialized medical supplies, over the counter items, vitamins, minerals and supplements directly to members homes.   
     
   9   

GOVERNMENT REGULATION       Most of our health and well-being services are regulated by federal and state regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. This regulation can vary
significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Changes in applicable laws, regulations and rules are continually being considered, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. New laws, regulations and rules, or
changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, could negatively impact our business. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the applicable laws, regulations and rules.       Federal Regulation       We are subject to various levels of federal
regulation. Ovations and AmeriChoice Medicare and Medicaid businesses are regulated by CMS. CMS has the right to audit performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care being given to Medicare
beneficiaries. Our Health Care Services segment, through AmeriChoice and Ovations, also has Medicaid and SCHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services, and
other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations surrounding Medicare and Medicaid compliance. In addition, the portion of Ingenix s business that includes clinical research is subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.        HIPAA.   The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as
amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. HIPAA requires guaranteed health care coverage for small employers and certain eligible individuals. It also requires
guaranteed renewability for employers and individuals and limits exclusions based on preexisting conditions. Federal regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA include minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy
and security of protected health information. Standards for national health care provider identifiers are currently being implemented by regulators.        ERISA.   The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how goods and services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and
regulations subject to periodic interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor as well as the federal courts. ERISA places controls on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee benefit health plans, particularly
those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the U.S. Department of Labor provide additional rules for claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. Additionally, some states require licensure or
registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for health care plans.        FDIC.     The Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has federal regulatory and supervisory authority over Exante Bank and performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements. In addition to such
annual examinations, the FDIC performs periodic examinations of the bank s compliance with applicable federal banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subjected to
increased operational expenses, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.       State Regulation       All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. These states require periodic financial reports and
establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state
Departments of Insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Some state insurance holding company laws and  
       
   10   

regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated
companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.      In
addition, some of our business and related activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, managed care organization (MCO), utilization review (UR) or third-party administrator-related regulations
and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state, but may contain network, contracting, product and rate, and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of
services, payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information and covered benefits and services. Our AmeriChoice and Ovations Medicaid businesses are subject to regulation by
state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits by AmeriChoice to its Medicaid and SCHIP beneficiaries and by Ovations to its Medicaid beneficiaries. Our pharmacy activities are generally regulated at the state level and may require
registration or licensure with certain state boards of pharmacy. Additionally, different approaches to state and federal privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may adversely affect our ability
to standardize our products and services across state lines.      In connection with the PacifiCare acquisition, which closed on December 20, 2005, as
typically occurs in connection with a transaction of this size, certain of our subsidiaries entered into various commitments with state regulatory departments, principally in California. We believe that none of these commitments will materially
affect our operations.      In addition, the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI) has state regulatory and supervisory authority over Exante
Bank and in conjunction with federal regulators performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements. In addition to such annual examinations, the UDFI in conjunction with
federal regulators performs periodic examinations of the bank s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subjected to increased
operational expenses, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.       Audits and Investigations       We have been and are currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and
reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of
Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC and other governmental authorities. Such government actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or exclusion from participation
in government programs. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details.       International Regulation       Some of our business units, including Ingenix s i3 business, have international operations. These international operations are subject to different legal and
regulatory requirements in different jurisdictions, including various tax, tariff and trade regulations, as well as employment, intellectual property and investment rules and laws.         
   11   

COMPETITION       As a diversified health and well-being services company, we operate in highly competitive markets. Our competitors include managed health care companies, insurance companies, third-party administrators and business services outsourcing
companies, health care professionals that have formed networks to directly contract with employers or with CMS, specialty benefit providers, government entities, disease management companies, and various health information and consulting companies.
For our Health Care Services businesses, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating
under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas. For our Prescription Solutions businesses, competitors include Medco Health Solutions, Inc., CVS/Caremark Corporation, and
Express Scripts, Inc. Our OptumHealth and Ingenix business segments also compete with a number of other businesses. New entrants into the markets in which we compete, as well as consolidation within these markets, also contribute to a competitive
environment. We believe the principal competitive factors that can impact our businesses relate to the sales, marketing and pricing of our products and services; product innovation; consumer satisfaction; the level and quality of products and
services; care delivery; network capabilities; market share; product distribution systems; efficiency of administration operations; financial strength and marketplace reputation.       EMPLOYEES       As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 67,000 individuals. We
believe our employee relations are generally positive.         
   12   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT       The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 15, 2008, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years:       

Name    
      
     Age    
      
     Position     
 
    Stephen J. Hemsley   
      
  55  
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
    George L. Mikan III   
      
  36  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    William A. Munsell   
      
  55  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of Enterprise Services Group   
 
    Eric S. Rangen   
      
  51  
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer   
 
    Thomas L. Strickland   
      
  55  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer   
 
    Lori K. Sweere   
      
  49  
      
  Executive Vice President, Human Capital   
 
    Anthony Welters   
      
  52  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of Public and Senior Markets Group   
 
    David S. Wichmann   
      
  45  
      
  Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of Commercial Markets Group   
    Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are
duly elected and qualified.       Mr. Hemsley  is the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since
November 2006, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. Mr. Hemsley served as President and Chief Operating Officer from 2003 to November 2006. He joined UnitedHealth Group in 1997 and held various executive
positions with the Company from 1997 to 2003.       Mr. Mikan  is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has
served in that capacity since November 2006. Mr. Mikan served as Senior Vice President of Finance of UnitedHealth Group from February 2006 to November 2006. From June 2004 to February 2006, Mr. Mikan served as Chief Financial Officer of
UnitedHealthcare and as President of UnitedHealth Networks. Mr. Mikan was Chief Financial Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth) from 2003 to June 2004. Mr. Mikan joined UnitedHealth Group in 1998 and held various executive
positions with the Company from 1998 to 2003.       Mr. Munsell  is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Enterprise
Services Group and has served in that capacity since September 2007. From December 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. From November 2004 to December 2006, Mr. Munsell served as Chief
Executive Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth). From 2003 to June 2004, Mr. Munsell served as the Chief Administrative Officer of UnitedHealthcare and Chief Operating Officer of UnitedHealthcare. Mr. Munsell joined
UnitedHealth Group in 1997 and held various executive positions with the Company from 1997 to 2003.       Mr. Rangen  is the Senior Vice President
and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since December 2006. From November 2006 to December 2006, Mr. Rangen was Senior Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Rangen joined UnitedHealth Group
in November 2006. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Rangen served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alliant Techsystems Inc. from April 2004 to March 2006 and as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Alliant Techsystems, Inc. from 2003 to April 2004.         
   13   

Mr. Strickland  is the Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served
in such capacity since May 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Strickland was a partner at Hogan   Hartson L.L.P., an international law firm, from 2003 to May 2007, and during such period, he was a managing partner of the
Colorado offices and served on the executive committee of Hogan   Hartson L.L.P.       Ms. Sweere  is Executive Vice President of Human
Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Sweere served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources of CNA Corporation from October 2004 to April 2007 and held
various leadership positions with CNA Corporation from 2003 to October 2004.       Mr. Welters  is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and
President of the Public and Senior Market Group and has served in that capacity since September 2007. Mr. Welters was named Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group in November 2006. From 2003 to November 2006, Mr. Welters was
President and Chief Executive Officer of AmeriChoice. Mr. Welters joined UnitedHealth Group in 2002 and held various executive positions with the Company from 2002 to 2003.       Mr. Wichmann  is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Commercial Markets Group and has served in that capacity since December 2006. From July 2004 to December 2006,
Mr. Wichmann served as President and Chief Operating Officer of UnitedHeathcare. From June 2003 to July 2004, Mr. Wichmann served as Chief Executive Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth). He also served as President and
Chief Operating Officer of Specialized Care Services during 2003. Mr. Wichmann joined UnitedHealth Group in 1998 and held various executive positions with the Company from 1998 to 2003.       

ITEM 1A.       
   RISK FACTORS         See Item 7     Cautionary
Statements,  which is incorporated by reference herein.       

ITEM 1B.   
        UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         None.

ITEM 2.       
   PROPERTIES         As of December 31, 2007, we owned and/or leased
real properties totaling approximately 12.6 million square feet to support our business operations in the United States and other countries (net of approximately 0.6 million square feet of space subleased to third parties). Of this
total, we owned approximately 1.5 million aggregate square feet of space and leased the remainder. Our leases expire at various dates through May 31, 2025. We are currently constructing two new facilities in Minnesota. We anticipate
completing the construction in 2008 and upon completion, we will own an additional 0.4 million square feet of real property and lease an additional 0.2 million square feet of real property. Our facilities are primarily located in the
United States. Our various segments use these facilities for their respective business purposes, and we believe these current facilities are suitable for their respective uses and are adequate for our anticipated future needs.       

ITEM 3.       
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, which is incorporated by reference herein.       

ITEM 4.       
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         None.
        
   14   

PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES          Market Prices       Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol UNH. On February 15, 2008, there were 14,414 registered holders of record of our common stock. The per share high and low common stock sales prices reported by the NYSE were as follows:       
     Dividend Policy       Our Board of Directors established our dividend policy in August 1990. Pursuant to our dividend policy, the Board reviews our financial statements following the end of each fiscal year and decides whether to declare a dividend on the
outstanding shares of common stock. On February 19, 2008, our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend of $0.03 per share, which will be paid on April 16, 2008 to shareholders of record on April 2, 2008. Shareholders of record on
April 2, 2007 received an annual dividend for 2007 of $0.03 per share and shareholders of record on April 3, 2006 received an annual dividend for 2006 of $0.03 per share.       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities        Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (1)       Fourth Quarter 2007        

(1)  
  In November 1997, our Board of Directors adopted a share repurchase program, which the Board evaluates periodically and renews as necessary. On October 30, 2007, the Board
renewed and increased the Company s common stock repurchase program, and authorized the Company to repurchase up to 210 million shares of our common stock at prevailing market prices. There is no established expiration date for the
program.           
   15   

(2)  
  Represents the total number of shares of our common stock repurchased during the period.         

(3)  
  Represents 21,750,000 shares of our common stock repurchased during the period, of which 18,750,000 of these shares were settled for cash on or before December 31, 2007; and
212,139 shares of our common stock withheld by the Company, as permitted by the applicable equity award certificate, to satisfy tax withholding obligations upon vesting of shares of restricted stock.         Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds       In
February 2007, we issued an aggregate of 139,877 unregistered shares of newly issued common stock of the Company to two employees pursuant to the exercises of certain options previously granted to these employees under our stock option plans at
option exercise prices ranging from $5.86 to $28.93 per share. The sales were made in reliance upon an exemption from registration under Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933. These options were exercised on a
cashless basis and we did not receive any cash proceeds from such transactions.       Performance Graphs       The following two performance graphs compare the Company s total return to shareholders with indexes of other specified companies and the S P 500 Index. The
first graph compares the cumulative five-year total return to shareholders on UnitedHealth Group s common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S P 500 index, and a customized peer group (the   Fortune 50 
Group ), an index of certain  Fortune 50  companies for the five-year period ended December 31, 2007. The second graph compares our cumulative total return to shareholders with the S P 500 Index and an index of a group of peer
companies selected by us for the five-year period ended December 31, 2007. The Company is not included in either the  Fortune 50  Group index in the first graph or the peer group index in the second graph. In calculating the cumulative
total shareholder return of the indexes, the shareholder returns of the  Fortune 50  Group companies in the first graph and the peer group companies in the second graph are weighted according to the stock market capitalizations of the companies
at January 1 of each year. The comparisons assume the investment of $100 on December 31, 2002 in company common stock and in each index, and that dividends were reinvested when paid.        Fortune 50 Group        The  Fortune 50  Group consists of the
following companies: American International Group Inc, Berkshire Hathaway Inc, Cardinal Health Inc, Citigroup Inc, General Electric Company, International Business Machine Corp. and Johnson   Johnson. Although there are differences in terms
of size and industry, like UnitedHealth Group, all of these companies are large multi-segment companies using a well-defined operating model in one or more broad sectors of the economy. These companies have also distinguished themselves by the
consistency of their growth and performance, in many cases over multiple decades.         
   16   

The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price
performance.          
   17   

Peer Group        The companies included in our peer group are Aetna Inc, Cigna Corp., Coventry Health Care Inc., Humana Inc. and WellPoint Inc. We believe that this peer group accurately reflects our peers in the health care industry.     

The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price
performance .         
   18   

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          Financial Highlights    
   
        Financial Highlights should be read with the accompanying Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes.       

(1)  
  On January 1, 2006, the Company began serving as a plan sponsor offering Medicare Part D drug insurance coverage under a contract with CMS. Total revenues generated under this
program were $5.9 billion and $5.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. See Note 3 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of this program.         

(2)  
  UnitedHealth Group acquired PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (PacifiCare) in December 2005 for total consideration of approximately $8.8 billion, Oxford Health Plans, Inc. (Oxford)
in July 2004 for total consideration of approximately $5.0 billion and Mid-Atlantic Medical Services, Inc. (MAMSI) in February 2004 for total consideration of approximately $2.7 billion. The results of operations and financial condition of
PacifiCare, Oxford and MAMSI have been included in UnitedHealth Group s Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective acquisition dates.           
   19   

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          Business Overview       UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company, serving approximately
70 million Americans. Our focus is on enhancing the performance of the health system and improving the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities. We work with health care professionals and other key
partners to expand access to high quality health care. We help people get the care they need at an affordable cost, support the physician/patient relationship, and empower people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make
personal health choices and decisions.     Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced technology-based
transactional capabilities; health care data, knowledge and information; and health care resource organization and care facilitation to make health care work better. We provide individuals with access to quality, cost-effective health care services
and resources. We provide employers and consumers with excellent value, service and support, and we deliver value to our shareholders by executing a business strategy founded upon a commitment to balanced growth, profitability and capital
discipline.      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.       2007 Financial Performance Highlights       UnitedHealth Group had strong results in 2007. The Company achieved growth across each of its reporting segments and generated net earnings of $4.7 billion, representing
an increase of 12% over 2006. Other financial performance highlights include:       

2007 Results Compared to 2006 Results        Consolidated Financial Results        Revenues       Revenues are comprised of premium revenues from risk-based
products; service revenues, which primarily include fees for management, administrative and consulting services; product revenues; and investment and other income.      Premium revenues are primarily derived from risk-based health insurance arrangements in which the premium is fixed, typically for a one-year period, and we assume the economic risk of funding our customers  health care services and
related administrative costs. Service revenues consist primarily of fees derived from services performed for customers that self-insure the medical costs of their employees and their dependents. For both premium risk-based and fee-based customer
arrangements, we provide coordination and facilitation of medical services; transaction processing; customer, consumer and care provider services; and access to contracted networks of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals.
Through our pharmacy benefit management (PBM) business, Prescription Solutions, revenues are derived from products sold and from administrative services. Product revenues also include sales of Ingenix syndicated content products.         
   20   

Consolidated revenues in 2007 of $75.4 billion increased by $3.9 billion, or 5%, over 2006 driven primarily by rate
increases on premium-based and fee-based services and growth in the total number of individuals served by Health Care Services.        Premium
Revenues.   Consolidated premium revenues totaled $68.8 billion in 2007, an increase of $3.1 billion, or 5%, over 2006. This increase was primarily driven by premium rate increases, partially offset by a decrease in the number of individuals
served by our commercial risk-based products.      Premium revenues for Commercial Markets (UnitedHealthcare and Uniprise) in 2007 totaled $36.2 billion, an
increase of $623 million, or 2%, over 2006. This increase was primarily due to average net premium rate increases of 7% to 8% on UnitedHealthcare s renewing commercial risk-based products and due to premiums from businesses acquired since the
beginning of 2006. This was partially offset by a 4% decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based products in 2007 primarily due to the Company s internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing
environment and the conversion of certain groups to commercial fee-based products. Ovations premium revenues in 2007 totaled $26.0 billion, an increase of $1.7 billion, or 7%, over 2006. The increase was driven primarily by an increase in
individuals served by standardized Medicare supplement and Evercare products, and rate increases on Medicare Advantage products as well as continued growth in our Medicare Part D program. AmeriChoice premium revenues increased by $732 million, or
20%, over 2006 primarily due to an increase in the number of individuals served by Medicaid products as well as rate increases. The remaining premium revenue increase resulted primarily from membership growth and rate increases at OptumHealth, which
contributed a premium revenue increase of 11% over 2006.        Service Revenues.   Consolidated service revenues in 2007 totaled $4.6 billion, an
increase of $340 million, or 8%, over 2006. This was driven primarily by a 38% increase in Ingenix service revenues due to new business growth in the health information and contract research businesses and from businesses acquired since the
beginning of 2006. In addition, Commercial Markets service revenues increased due to a 3% increase in the number of individuals served under commercial fee-based arrangements during 2007, as well as annual rate increases.        Product Revenues.   Consolidated product revenues in 2007 totaled $898 million, an increase of $161 million, or 22%, over 2006. The increase was driven by
pharmacy sales growth at Prescription Solutions primarily due to providing prescription drug benefit services to an additional four million Ovations Medicare Advantage and Part D members.        Investment and Other Income.   Investment and other income during 2007 totaled $1.1 billion, representing an increase of $273 million, or 31%, over 2006.
Interest income increased by $239 million in 2007, driven by increased levels of cash and fixed-income investments, due in part to deposits held for certain government-sponsored programs during 2007 and the lack of share repurchase activity in the
first two and a half months of 2007. Net realized gains on sales of investments were $38 million in 2007 and $4 million in 2006. We expect a slight decline in investment income in 2008 due to the declining interest rate environment in early 2008, as
well as a comparatively lower level of invested asset balances expected in 2008.       Medical Costs       The combination of pricing, benefit designs, consumer health care utilization and comprehensive care facilitation efforts is reflected in the medical care ratio (medical
costs as a percentage of premium revenues). The consolidated medical care ratio decreased from 81.2% in 2006 to 80.6% in 2007. This was primarily due to a decrease in the medical care ratio relating to Ovations which was partially offset by an
increase in the commercial medical care ratio resulting from the Company s internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment, as well as a shift from favorable medical cost development for UnitedHealthcare
during 2006 to unfavorable medical cost development during 2007.         
   21   

For each period, our operating results include the effects of revisions in medical cost estimates related to all prior
periods. Changes in medical cost estimates related to prior fiscal years, resulting from more complete claim information and other facts and circumstances, that are identified in the current year are included in total medical costs reported for the
current fiscal year. Medical costs for 2007 included approximately $420 million of favorable medical cost development related to prior fiscal years. Medical costs for 2006 included approximately $430 million of favorable medical cost
development related to prior fiscal years.      Medical costs for 2007 increased $2.1 billion, or 4%, to $55.4 billion, primarily due to an annual medical cost
trend of 7% to 8% on commercial risk-based business due to medical cost inflation and increased utilization, as well as growth in Ovations Medicare programs, partially offset by a decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based
products.       Operating Costs       The operating cost ratio
(operating costs as a percentage of total revenues) for 2007 of 14.0% was consistent with 2006. The operating cost ratio reflected productivity gains from technology deployment and other cost management initiatives, offset by the effect of business
mix change as fee-based businesses such as Ingenix increase in size and impact, as well as increased investment in technology, service and product enhancements; incremental marketing and advertising costs for Medicare Advantage products; and
expenses in the first quarter of 2007 associated with the application of deferred compensation rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 409A) to our historical stock option practices, as described below.      Operating costs in 2007 totaled $10.6 billion, an increase of $602 million, or 6%, over 2006. This increase was primarily due to general operating cost inflation and was
also impacted by the items discussed above.      Included in the operating costs for 2007 is $176 million ($112 million net of tax benefit) of expenses
recorded in the first quarter of 2007 related to application of deferred compensation rules under Section 409A to our historical stock option practices. As part of our review of the Company s historical stock option practices, we
determined that certain stock options granted to individuals who were nonexecutive officer employees at the time of grant were granted with an exercise price that was lower than the closing price of our common stock on the applicable accounting
measurement date, subjecting these individuals to additional tax under Section 409A. The Company elected to pay these individuals for the additional tax costs relating to such stock options exercised in 2006 and early 2007. For any outstanding
stock options subject to additional tax under Section 409A that were granted to nonexecutive officer employees, the Company increased the exercise price and committed to make cash payments to these optionholders for their vested options based
on the difference between the original stock option exercise price and the revised increased stock option exercise price. The payments will be made on a quarterly basis upon vesting of the applicable awards. The first payment of $110 million was
made to optionholders in January 2008 for options vested through December 31, 2007. Aggregate future payments will be $38 million, assuming all applicable options vest during 2008 and 2009. If the modified stock options are subsequently
exercised, the Company will recover these cash payments at that time from exercise proceeds at the revised increased stock option exercise prices.      The
$176 million Section 409A charge includes $87 million of expense ($55 million net of tax benefit) for the payment of certain optionholders  tax obligations for stock options exercised in 2006 and early 2007 and $89 million of expense ($57
million net of tax benefit) for the modification related to increasing the exercise price of unexercised stock options granted to nonexecutive officer employees and the related cash payments. These amounts have been recorded as corporate expenses
and have not been allocated to individual business segments.      As previously disclosed, in December 2006, the Company entered into agreements with
individuals who were executive officers of the Company at the time of grant of an applicable stock option to increase the exercise price of certain outstanding stock options. No compensation was payable to any of those individuals as a result of the
increase in the exercise price of their stock options.         
   22   

Cost of Products Sold       Cost of products sold in 2007 totaled $768 million, an increase of $169 million, or 28%, over 2006. This was primarily due to costs associated with increased pharmacy sales at Prescription Solutions as a result of providing prescription
drug benefit services to an additional four million Ovations Medicare Advantage and Part D members in 2007.       Depreciation and Amortization
      Depreciation and amortization in 2007 was $796 million, an increase of $126 million, or 19%, over 2006. This increase was primarily related to higher
levels of computer equipment and capitalized software as a result of technology enhancements, business growth and businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006, as well as separately identifiable intangible assets acquired in business acquisitions
since the beginning of 2006.       Income Taxes       Our
effective income tax rate was 36.3% in both 2007 and 2006.       Business Segments       During the fourth quarter of 2007, we completed the transition to our new segment reporting structure which reflects how our chief operating decision maker now manages our business. Our new reporting structure has
four reporting segments:       

Health Care Services, which now includes our Commercial Markets (UnitedHealthcare and Uniprise), Ovations and AmeriChoice businesses;      

OptumHealth;          

Ingenix; and          

Prescription Solutions (formerly included in the Ovations business).         Historical financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was revised to reflect our new segment operating and financial reporting structure.      The following summarizes the operating results of our reporting segments for the years ended December 31:       
        nm - not meaningful         
   23   

Health Care Services       The Health Care Services segment is composed of the Commercial Markets, Ovations and AmeriChoice businesses. Commercial Markets is comprised of UnitedHealthcare, which offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans
and services for local, small and mid-sized employers and individuals nationwide, and Uniprise, which provides these services on a dedicated basis to large, multi-site employers. Ovations provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50
and older and AmeriChoice provides network-based health and well-being services to state Medicaid programs and the beneficiaries of those programs. The financial results of Commercial Markets, Ovations and AmeriChoice have been aggregated in the
Health Care Services segment due to the similar economic characteristics, products and services, types of customers, distribution methods and operational processes, and regulatory environment. These businesses also share significant common assets,
including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other resources.      Health Care Services had revenues of $71.2 billion in 2007, representing an increase of $3.4 billion, or 5%, over 2006. Commercial Markets revenues of $40.3 billion in 2007 increased by $821 million, or 2%, over 2006.
This increase was driven mainly by average net premium rate increases of 7% to 8% on UnitedHealthcare s renewing commercial risk-based products, an increase in the number of individuals served by commercial fee-based products and businesses
acquired since the beginning of 2006. This was partially offset by a 4% decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based products in 2007 primarily due to the Company s internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial
risk-based pricing environment and the conversion of certain groups to commercial fee-based products. Ovations revenues of $26.5 billion in 2007 increased by approximately $1.8 billion, or 7%, over 2006. The increase was primarily driven by an
increase in individuals served by standardized Medicare supplement and Evercare products, and rate increases on Medicare Advantage products as well as continued growth in our Medicare Part D program. The remaining Health Care Services revenue
increase resulted from an increase in AmeriChoice revenues of $750 million, or 20%, over 2006 primarily due to an increase in the number of individuals served by Medicaid products as well as rate increases.      Health Care Services earnings from operations in 2007 were $6.6 billion, representing an increase of $735 million, or 13%, over 2006. This increase was principally
driven by a decrease in the medical care ratio for Ovations primarily due to favorable medical cost trends and an increase in the number of individuals served by certain Medicare products and related rate increases discussed above, partially offset
by a decrease in individuals served by commercial risk-based products and an increase in the related medical care ratio. The Commercial Markets medical care ratio increased to 82.6% in 2007 from 80.5% in 2006 and the UnitedHealthcare medical care
ratio increased to 82.1% in 2007 from 79.8% in 2006. These increases were mainly due to the Company s internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment as well as a shift from favorable medical cost
development for UnitedHealthcare during 2006 to unfavorable medical cost development during 2007, which was partially driven by costs from higher benefit utilization in December 2006 primarily relating to high-deductible risk-based products. The
Health Care Services operating margin for 2007 was 9.3%, an increase from 8.6% in 2006, which reflected productivity gains from technology deployment and disciplined operating cost management as well as the factors discussed above.         
   24   

The following table summarizes the number of individuals served by Health Care Services, by major market segment and
funding arrangement, as of December 31:      
        The number of individuals served with commercial products as of December 31, 2007 decreased by 175,000, or 1%, from the prior year. The number of individuals served with commercial fee-based products as of December 31, 2007
increased by 305,000, or 2%, over 2006 driven by new customer relationships and customers converting from risk-based products to fee-based products, partially offset by employment attrition at continuing customers. The number of individuals served
with commercial risk-based products decreased by 480,000, or 4%, primarily due to a competitive pricing environment and the conversion of individuals to fee-based products.      The number of individuals served by Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2007 decreased by 75,000, or 5%, from 2006, primarily due to a decline in participation in private-fee-for-service offerings,
while individuals served by standardized Medicare supplement products increased by 125,000, or 5%, due to new customer relationships. Medicaid enrollment increased 245,000, or 17%, in 2007 primarily due to new customer gains, including 180,000
individuals served under the TennCare program in Tennessee.       OptumHealth       OptumHealth provides health, well-being and financial services to people and organizations nationwide through personalized health advocacy and engagement, specialized benefits such as behavioral, dental and vision
offerings, and health-based financial services. OptumHealth revenues of $4.9 billion increased by $579 million, or 13%, over 2006. This increase was principally driven by an increase in the number of individuals served by several of its specialty
benefit businesses and rate increases related to these businesses.      OptumHealth earnings from operations in 2007 of $895 million increased $86 million, or
11%, over 2006 primarily due to the membership growth and rate increases discussed above. The OptumHealth operating margin declined from 18.6% in 2006 to 18.2% in 2007 due to a continued business mix shift toward higher revenue, lower margin
products, partially offset by effective operating cost management.       Ingenix       Ingenix offers solutions to a spectrum of health care market participants on a national and international basis, including data management services, software products, publications, consulting and actuarial services,
business process outsourcing services, clinical research outsourcing, pharmaceutical data and consulting services, and revenue cycle management solutions. Ingenix revenues for 2007 of $1.3 billion increased by $348 million, or 36%, over 2006. This
was primarily driven by new business growth in the health information and contract research businesses as well as from businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006.      Ingenix earnings from operations in 2007 were $266 million, up $90 million, or 51%, from 2006. This increase in earnings from operations was primarily due to growth in the health information and contract research
businesses, businesses acquired since the beginning of 2006 and effective operating cost management. The operating margin  
       
   25   

was 20.4% in 2007, up from 18.4% in 2006. This increase in operating margin was largely driven by business growth and operating cost management described
above.       Prescription Solutions       Prescription Solutions
offers a comprehensive array of PBM and specialty pharmacy management services to employer groups, union trusts, seniors through Medicare prescription drug plans, and commercial health plans. Prescription Solutions revenues for 2007 of $13.2 billion
increased by $9.2 billion, or 224%, over 2006. This was primarily driven by providing prescription drug benefit services to an additional four million Ovations Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Part D members. Intersegment revenues were eliminated
in consolidation and amounted to $12.4 billion and $3.4 billion for 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Prescription Solutions earnings from operations in 2007
of $269 million increased $130 million, or 94%, from 2006 due largely to the expansion of services to Medicare Part D members discussed above. The operating margin was 2.0% in 2007, a decrease from 3.4% in 2006. The decrease in operating margin
reflected the comparatively lower margin earned in the high volume Ovations Medicare Part D prescription drug service contract.       2006 Results Compared
to 2005 Results        Consolidated Financial Results        Revenues       Consolidated revenues in 2006 of $71.5 billion increased by $25.1 billion, or 54%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of businesses
acquired since the beginning of 2005, consolidated revenues increased by approximately 21% in 2006 principally driven by the successful launch of the Medicare Part D program on January 1, 2006, rate increases on premium-based and fee-based
services and growth in individuals served across our business segments. Following is a discussion of our 2006 consolidated revenue for each of our revenue components.        Premium Revenues   .  Consolidated premium revenues totaled $65.7 billion in 2006, an increase of $23.6 billion, or 56%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of acquisitions since the beginning of 2005,
consolidated premium revenues increased by $8.8 billion, or 21%, over 2005. The increase was primarily driven by premium rate increases and the successful launch of the Medicare Part D program, partially offset by a slight decrease in the number of
individuals served by our commercial risk-based products.      Commercial Markets premium revenues in 2006 totaled $35.6 billion, an increase of $7.5 billion,
or 27%, over 2005. Excluding premium revenues from businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, Commercial Markets premium revenues were essentially flat compared to 2005. This was primarily due to average net premium rate increases of
approximately 8% or above on UnitedHealthcare s renewing commercial risk-based products, offset by lower premium yields from new business primarily due to a larger portion of new customer sales generated from high-deductible lower-premium
products (with correspondingly lower medical costs), and a 5% decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based products primarily due to the Company s internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based
pricing environment and the conversion of certain groups to fee-based products. Ovations premium revenues in 2006 totaled $24.4 billion, an increase of $15.2 billion, or 165%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of acquisitions since the beginning of
2005, Ovations premium revenues increased by approximately $8.3 billion, or 92%, over 2005. The increase was primarily driven by the successful launch of the Medicare Part D program, which had premium revenues of $5.7 billion for 2006, and an
increase in the number of individuals served by Medicare Advantage and standardized Medicare supplement products, as well as rate increases on these products. OptumHealth premium revenues increased by approximately $1.0 billion over 2005. This was
primarily due to the acquisition of PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (PacifiCare) and strong growth in the number of individuals served by several OptumHealth businesses under premium-based arrangements. The remaining premium revenue increase
primarily resulted from membership growth and premium revenue rate increases in AmeriChoice s Medicaid programs, which contributed premium revenue increases of approximately $278 million, or 8%, over 2005.         
   26   

Service Revenues   .  Service revenues in 2006 totaled $4.3 billion, an increase of $602 million, or
16%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of acquisitions since the beginning of 2005, service revenues increased by approximately 12% over 2005. The increase in service revenues was primarily driven by aggregate growth of 8% in the number of individuals
served by commercial fee-based arrangements during 2006, as well as annual rate increases. In addition, Ingenix service revenues increased by approximately 22% due to new business growth in the health information and contract research businesses and
from businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005.        Product Revenues   .  Product revenues in 2006 totaled $737 million, an increase of
$579 million over 2005. This was primarily due to increased pharmacy sales at Prescription Solutions, which was acquired in December 2005 with the purchase of PacifiCare.        Investment and Other Income   .  Investment and other income during 2006 totaled $871 million, representing an increase of $366 million over 2005. Interest income increased by $372 million in 2006,
principally due to the impact of increased levels of cash and fixed-income investments during the year, due in part to the acquisition of PacifiCare, as well as higher yields on fixed-income investments. Net capital gains on sales of investments
were $4 million in 2006 and $10 million in 2005.       Medical Costs       The consolidated medical care ratio increased from 80.0% in 2005 to 81.2% in 2006. This medical care ratio increase resulted primarily from the impact of the acquisition of PacifiCare and launch of the Medicare Part D program, both of which
carry a higher medical care ratio than the historic UnitedHealth Group businesses. Medical costs for 2006 include approximately $430 million of favorable medical cost development related to prior fiscal years. Medical costs for 2005 include
approximately $400 million of favorable medical cost development related to prior fiscal years.      Medical costs for 2006 increased $19.6 billion, or
58%, to $53.3 billion, due to the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, medical costs associated with the new Medicare Part D program and a medical cost trend of 7% to 8% on commercial risk-based business. Medical costs
associated with the new Medicare Part D program for 2006 were $4.9 billion. The medical cost trend was due to both medical inflation and increases in health care consumption.       Operating Costs       The operating cost ratio for 2006 of 14.0%, improved from 15.4% in 2005. This decrease was primarily
driven by revenue mix changes, with premium revenues growing at a faster rate than service revenues primarily due to the new Medicare Part D program and the PacifiCare acquisition. Operating costs as a percentage of premium revenues are generally
considerably lower than operating costs as a percentage of fee-based revenues. The decrease in the operating cost ratio reflected productivity gains from technology deployment and other cost management initiatives, including cost savings associated
with the PacifiCare acquisition integration, and an insurance recovery of $43 million. These items were partially offset by a $22 million charitable contribution to the United Health Foundation and approximately $44 million of additional cash
expenses related to the stock option review, exclusive of share-based compensation expense.      Operating costs in 2006 totaled $10.0 billion, an increase of
$2.8 billion, or 40%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, operating costs increased by approximately 13% over 2005. The increase was primarily due to the new Medicare Part D program as well as a 4%
increase in the total number of individuals served by Health Care Services during 2006 (excluding the impact of acquisitions since the beginning of 2005), growth in OptumHealth and Ingenix, general operating cost inflation, and the specific items
discussed above, partially offset by productivity gains from technology deployment, cost savings associated with acquisition integrations and other cost management initiatives.         
   27   

Cost of Products Sold       Cost of products sold in 2006 totaled $599 million, an increase of $510 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to increased pharmacy sales at Prescription Solutions, which was acquired in December 2005 with the purchase of
PacifiCare.       Depreciation and Amortization       Depreciation and amortization in 2006 was $670 million, an increase of $217 million, or 48%, over 2005. Approximately $85 million of this increase was related to intangible assets from PacifiCare and other businesses acquired since the
beginning of 2005. The remaining increase was primarily due to additional depreciation and amortization from higher levels of computer equipment and capitalized software as a result of technology enhancements, business growth and businesses acquired
since the beginning of 2005.       Income Taxes       Our
effective income tax rate was 36.3% in 2006 and in 2005.       Business Segments       The following summarizes the operating results of our business segments for the years ended December 31:       
        nm - not meaningful       Health Care Services       Health Care Services had revenues of $67.8 billion in 2006, representing an increase of $23.7 billion, or 54%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, Health Care Services revenues increased by
approximately $8.6 billion, or 20%, over 2005. Commercial Markets revenues of $39.5 billion in 2006 increased by $8.1 billion, or 26%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, Commercial Markets revenues
increased by approximately 2% over 2005. This was primarily due to an 8% increase in the number of individuals served with commercial fee-based products and annual service fee rate increases for self-insured customers, as well as average premium
rate increases of approximately 8% or above on UnitedHealthcare s renewing risk-based products, partially offset by lower premium yields from a larger portion of new customer sales generated from high-deductible lower-premium  
       
   28   

products and a 5% decrease in the number of individuals served by commercial risk-based products in 2006 primarily due to the Company s internal pricing
decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment and the conversion of certain groups to fee-based products. Ovations revenues of $24.6 billion in 2006 increased by approximately $15.2 billion, or 162%, over 2005. Excluding the
impact of acquisitions since the beginning of 2005, Ovations revenues increased by $7.8 billion, or 85%, over 2005. The increase was primarily driven by the successful launch of the Medicare Part D program, which had premium revenues of $5.7 billion
for 2006, and an increase in the number of individuals served by Medicare Advantage and standardized Medicare supplement products, as well as rate increases on these products. The remaining increase in Health Care Services revenues is attributable
to a 8% increase in AmeriChoice revenues, excluding the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, primarily driven by membership growth and premium revenue rate increases on Medicaid products.      Health Care Services earnings from operations in 2006 were $5.9 billion, representing an increase of $1.5 billion, or 34%, over 2005. This increase was principally
driven by acquisitions and increases in the number of individuals served by Ovations  Medicare and Part D products and Commercial Markets  fee-based products. The segment also benefited by productivity gains from technology deployment and
other cost management initiatives, including cost savings associated with the PacifiCare acquisition integration. These initiatives also reduced labor and occupancy costs in the transaction processing and customer service, billing and enrollment
functions. The Commercial Markets medical care ratio increased to 80.5% in 2006 from 79.6% in 2005 and the UnitedHealthcare medical care ratio increased to 79.8% in 2006 from 78.6% in 2005, mainly due to the impact of the PacifiCare acquisition and
changes in product, business and customer mix. Health Care Services  operating margin for 2006 was 8.6%, a decrease from 9.9% in 2005. This decrease was driven mainly by the acquisition of PacifiCare and the new Medicare Part D program, which
have lower operating margins than historic UnitedHealth Group businesses.      The following table summarizes the number of individuals served by Health Care
Services, by major market segment and funding arrangement, as of December 31:       
    The number of individuals served by commercial products as of December 31, 2006 increased by approximately
1.1 million, or 5%, over the prior year. Excluding the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, commercial business individuals served increased by 565,000, or 3%, over the prior year. This included an increase of
approximately 1.0 million in the number of individuals served with commercial fee-based products, driven by new customer relationships and customers converting from risk-based products to fee-based products, offset by a decrease of
approximately 475,000 in the number of individuals served with commercial risk-based products primarily due to the Company s internal pricing decisions in a competitive commercial risk-based pricing environment and the conversion of certain
groups to fee-based products.      Excluding businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, the number of individuals served by Medicare Advantage products
increased by 230,000 from 2005 primarily due to new customer relationships, while individuals served by standardized Medicare supplement products increased by 125,000, or 6%, due to new  
       
   29   

customer gains. Excluding the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, Medicaid enrollment increased 65,000, or 5%, primarily due to new
customer gains.       OptumHealth       OptumHealth revenues of
$4.3 billion increased by $1.2 billion, or 39%, over 2005. Excluding the impact of businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005, revenues increased by 20% over the prior period. This increase was principally driven by an increase in the number of
individuals served by several of its specialty benefit businesses and rate increases related to these businesses.      Earnings from operations in 2006 of $809
million increased $235 million, or 41%, over 2005. OptumHealth operating margin was 18.6% in 2006, up from 18.4% in 2005. Realized improvements in operating cost structure and benefits from the integration of PacifiCare specialty operations in 2006
were partially offset by a business mix shift toward higher revenue, lower margin products.       Ingenix       Ingenix revenues for 2006 of $956 million increased by $160 million, or 20%, over 2005. This was primarily driven by new business growth in the health information and
contract research businesses, as well as businesses acquired since the beginning of 2005. Earnings from operations in 2006 were $176 million, up $46 million, or 35%, from 2005. Operating margin was 18.4% in 2006, up from 16.3% in 2005. These
increases in earnings from operations and operating margin were primarily due to growth in the health information and pharmaceutical services businesses, improving gross margins due to effective cost management, and businesses acquired since the
beginning of 2005.       Prescription Solutions       Results for
Prescription Solutions in 2006 included revenues of $4.1 billion, earnings from operations of $139 million and operating margin of 3.4%. The 2005 results included $78 million of revenue and no earnings from operations. The increases in 2006 were
primarily due to the timing of the acquisition of this business, which was acquired in December 2005 with the purchase of PacifiCare.       Liquidity,
Financial Condition and Capital Resources        Liquidity and Financial Condition       We manage our cash, investments and capital structure so we are able to meet the short and long-term obligations of our business while maintaining strong financial flexibility and liquidity. We forecast, analyze and
monitor our cash flows to enable prudent investment management and financing within the confines of our financial strategy.      Our regulated subsidiaries
generate significant cash flows from operations. A majority of the assets held by our regulated subsidiaries are in the form of cash, cash equivalents and investments. After considering expected cash flows from operating activities, we generally
invest cash of regulated subsidiaries that exceed our short-term obligations in longer term, investment-grade, marketable debt securities to improve our overall investment return. Factors we consider in making these investment decisions include our
Board of Directors  approved investment policy, regulatory limitations, return objectives, tax implications, risk tolerance and maturity dates. Our long-term investments are also available for sale to meet short-term liquidity and other needs.
Cash in excess of the capital needs of our regulated entities is paid to their non-regulated parent companies, typically in the form of dividends, for general corporate use, when and as permitted by applicable regulations.      Our non-regulated businesses also generate significant cash from operations for general corporate use. Cash flows generated by these entities, combined with the issuance
of commercial paper, long-term debt and the  
       
   30   

availability of committed credit facilities, further strengthen our operating and financial flexibility. We generally use these cash flows to reinvest in our
businesses in the form of capital expenditures, to expand the depth and breadth of our services through business acquisitions, and to repurchase shares of our common stock, depending on market conditions.      Cash flows generated from operating activities, our primary source of liquidity, are principally from premiums, fee income and investment income. Any future decline in
our profitability may have a negative impact on our liquidity. The level of profitability of our risk-based insured business depends in large part on our ability to accurately predict and price for health care and operating cost increases. This risk
is partially mitigated by the diversity of our other businesses, the geographic diversity of our risk-based business and our disciplined underwriting and pricing processes, which seek to match premium rate increases with estimated future health care
costs. In 2007, a hypothetical unexpected 1% increase in commercial insured medical costs would have reduced net earnings by approximately $190 million.        Change in Capital Structure.   On October 31, 2007, we announced that we may increase the debt component of our capital structure to the 40 percent range of debt-to-total-capital. Effective with our debt issuances
in the fourth quarter of 2007 and share repurchases through year end, the debt component of our capital structure increased to 35.4%. Refer to      Financing Activities  below for further detail of the debt issuances, including
the February 2008 issuance. These events increased our debt-to-total-capital ratio and will reduce our weighted average total cost of capital. This change will also increase our interest expense during 2008, and thereafter as applicable. As a result
of this announcement on October 31, 2007, Standard   Poor s (S P) downgraded our senior debt rating one notch from  A  to  A-  and our commercial paper rating one notch from  A1  to
 A2 . S P maintained our outlook at stable for both our senior debt and commercial paper. On January 9, 2008, Moody s downgraded our senior debt rating to  Baa1  and returned our outlook to
stable. Moody s affirmed our commercial paper rating at  P-2  with a stable outlook. On January 30, 2008, Fitch downgraded our senior debt rating to  A-  with a stable outlook and maintained our commercial
paper rating at  F-1  with a stable outlook. The interest rates on our debt and commercial paper did not change as a result of the change in debt ratings. We believe the prudent use of debt optimizes our cost of capital and return on
shareholders  equity, while maintaining appropriate liquidity.       Operating Activities       Net cash flows from operating activities totaled $5.9 billion, $6.5 billion and $4.1 billion for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash from operating activities in 2007
decreased from 2006 by $649 million, or 10%, due to a reduction in working capital cash flows of $1.5 billion partially offset by an increase of $495 million in net income. The decrease in working capital cash flows was driven by lower medical costs
payable growth primarily related to Ovations Medicare programs as the 2006 operating cash flows benefited from the initial establishment of the medical costs payable balance related to the Medicare Part D program, fewer income tax refunds received
in 2007 as well as larger income tax payments and the timing of certain government payments and receipts. Overall, our receivables and related days sales outstanding increased primarily as a result of these governmental timing differences, while our
commercial business receivables remained relatively flat.       Investing Activities       Net cash flows used for investing activities totaled $4.1 billion, $2.1 billion and $3.5 billion for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For detail on acquisitions, see Note 4 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.       Financing Activities       Net cash flows used
for financing activities totaled $3.2 billion for 2007. Net cash flows from financing activities totaled $474 million and $836 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively.       
  
   31   

Debt Transactions.   In February 2008, we issued a total of $3.0 billion in senior unsecured debt, which
included: $250 million of floating rate notes due February 2011, $550 million of 4.9% fixed-rate notes due February 2013, $1.1 billion of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due February 2018 and $1.1 billion of 6.9% fixed-rate notes due February 2038. The
floating-rate notes are benchmarked to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and had an initial interest rate of 4.5%. On the same date, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to receive fixed rates and pay variable rates that are
benchmarked to the LIBOR on the February 2013 and February 2018 notes with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $1.7 billion.      In November 2007,
we issued $500 million of zero coupon notes due November 2022. These zero coupon notes are original issue discount notes with an aggregate principal amount due at maturity of approximately $1.1 billion and an accretion yield of 5.3%. These notes
have a put feature that allows a note holder to require us to repurchase the notes at the accreted value at certain annual dates in the future, beginning on November 15, 2010.      In November 2007, we issued a total of $1.6 billion in senior unsecured debt, which included: $250 million of 5.1% fixed-rate notes due November 2010, $450 million of 5.5% fixed-rate notes due November 2012, $250
million of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due November 2017 and $650 million of 6.6% fixed-rate notes due November 2037. These notes were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (1933 Act).
In January 2008, we commenced an offer to allow purchasers of the notes to exchange each series of these notes for a new issue of substantially identical debt securities registered under the 1933 Act. We expect to complete the exchange in February
2008.      In June 2007, we issued a total of $1.5 billion in senior unsecured debt, which included: $500 million of floating-rate notes due June 2010, $500
million of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due June 2017 and $500 million of 6.5% fixed-rate notes due June 2037. The floating-rate notes due June 2010 are benchmarked to the LIBOR and had an interest rate of 5.1% at December 31, 2007. These notes were
issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act. In January 2008, we commenced an offer to allow purchasers of the notes to exchange each series of these notes for a new issue of substantially identical
debt securities registered under the 1933 Act. We expect to complete the exchange in February 2008.      In March 2006, we issued a total of $3.0 billion in
senior unsecured debt to refinance outstanding commercial paper. We issued $650 million of floating-rate notes due March 2009, $750 million of 5.3% fixed-rate notes due March 2011, $750 million of 5.4% fixed-rate notes due March 2016 and
$850 million of 5.8% fixed-rate notes due March 2036. The floating-rate notes due March 2009 are benchmarked to the LIBOR and had an interest rate of 5.2% and 5.5% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      PacifiCare had approximately $100 million par value of 3% convertible subordinated debentures (convertible notes) which were convertible into approximately
5.2 million shares of UnitedHealth Group s common stock and $102 million of cash as of December 31, 2005. In December 2005, we initiated a consent solicitation to all of the holders of outstanding convertible notes pursuant to which
we offered to compensate all holders who elected to convert their notes in accordance with existing terms and consent to an amendment to a covenant in the indenture governing the convertible notes. The compensation consisted of the present value of
interest through October 18, 2007, the earliest mandatory redemption date, plus a pro rata share of $1 million. On January 31, 2006, approximately $91 million of the convertible notes were tendered pursuant to the offer, for which we
issued 4.8 million shares of UnitedHealth Group common stock, valued at $282 million, and cash of $93 million and amended the indenture governing these notes. During 2007, approximately $9 million of convertible notes were tendered for
conversion, for which we issued 470,119 shares of UnitedHealth Group common stock, valued at approximately $24 million, and cash of approximately $10 million. In September 2007, we notified the remaining holders of our intent to fully redeem
all outstanding convertible notes on October 18, 2007, the earliest redemption date. As of October 16, 2007, all convertible notes were tendered pursuant to this redemption notice.        Hedging Activities.   To more closely align interest costs with floating interest rates received on our cash equivalent and investment balances, we have
entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert the majority of our interest rate exposure from fixed rates to variable rates. The interest rate swap agreements have aggregate  
       
   32   

notional amounts of $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2007, with variable rates that are benchmarked to the LIBOR. As of December 31, 2007, the
aggregate asset, recorded at fair value, for all existing interest rate swaps was approximately $151 million. These interest rate swap agreements qualify as fair value hedges and are accounted for using the short-cut method under Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (FAS 133), whereby the hedges are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, and the carrying value of the
long-term debt is adjusted for an offsetting amount representing changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk. Since these amounts completely offset, we have reported both the swap asset and the debt liability within debt in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets and there have been no net gains or losses recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. At December 31, 2007, the rates used to accrue interest expense on these agreements ranged from 4.1% to 6.1%.
       Stock Repurchases.   Under our Board of Directors  authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. Repurchases may be made
from time to time at prevailing prices, subject to certain restrictions on volume, pricing and timing. During 2007, we repurchased 125.3 million shares which were settled for cash on or before December 31, 2007 at an average price of
approximately $53 per share and an aggregate cost of approximately $6.6 billion. During 2006, we repurchased 40.2 million shares which were settled for cash on or before December 31, 2006 at an average price of approximately $56 per share
and an aggregate cost of approximately $2.2 billion. As of December 31, 2007, we had Board of Directors  authorization to purchase up to an additional 171.9 million shares of our common stock. Our common stock repurchase program is
discretionary as we are under no obligation to repurchase shares. We expect to repurchase approximately $5 billion of our common stock in 2008.       Capital
Resources       As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had commercial paper and debt outstanding of approximately $11.0 billion and $7.5 billion,
respectively. Our debt-to-total-capital ratio was 35.4% and 26.4% as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Commercial paper consisted of senior unsecured debt sold on a discounted basis with maturities up to 270 days.      The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating cash flows, debt levels, debt ratings,
debt covenants and other contractual restrictions, regulatory requirements and market conditions. We believe that our strategies and actions toward maintaining financial flexibility mitigate much of this risk. However, a significant downgrade in
ratings may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital. See    Cautionary Statements  for additional information.        Cash and Investments.   We maintained a strong liquidity position, with cash and investments of $22.3 billion and $20.6 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total cash and investments increased by $1.7
billion since December 31, 2006, primarily due to strong operating cash flows, the issuance of debt, and proceeds received from common stock issuances related to exercises of share-based awards, partially offset by common stock
repurchases, repayments of debt, capital expenditures, and funds paid to Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS) under the Medicare Part D program.          As further described under    Dividend Restrictions,  many of our subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that
may be paid to their parent companies. At December 31, 2007, approximately $2.4 billion of our $22.3 billion of cash and investments was held by non-regulated subsidiaries and was available for general corporate use, including acquisitions
and common stock repurchases.        Shelf Registration.   In February 2008, we filed a universal S-3 shelf registration statement with the SEC
registering an unlimited amount of debt securities.         
   33   

Ratings.   Currently, our senior debt is rated  A-  with a stable outlook by S P,
 A-  with a stable outlook by Fitch, and  Baa1  with a stable outlook by Moody s. Our commercial paper is rated  A2  with a stable outlook by S P,  F-1  with a stable outlook by Fitch, and
 P-2  with a stable outlook by Moody s.        Debt Covenants.   Our debt arrangements and credit facilities contain various
covenants, the most restrictive of which require us to maintain a debt-to-total-capital ratio (calculated as the sum of commercial paper and debt divided by the sum of commercial paper, debt and shareholders  equity) below 50%. We were in
compliance with the requirements of all debt covenants as of December 31, 2007. On August 28, 2006, we received a purported notice of default from persons claiming to hold our 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2036 alleging a
violation of the indenture governing those debt securities. This followed our announcement that we would delay filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for details.        Bank Credit Facilities.   In November 2007, we entered into a $1.5 billion 364-day revolving credit facility in
order to expand our access to liquidity. The credit facility supports our commercial paper program and is available for general working capital purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had no amounts outstanding under this bank credit facility.
     In May 2007, we amended and restated our $1.3 billion five-year revolving credit facility supporting our commercial paper program. We increased the credit
facility to $2.6 billion and extended the maturity date to May 2012. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had no amounts outstanding under this credit facility.      In October 2006, we entered into a $7.5 billion 364-day revolving credit facility. Effective August 3, 2007, we elected to reduce the amount of this facility to $1.5 billion. This credit facility expired on
October 15, 2007.        Dividend Restrictions.   We conduct a significant portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are subject to
standards established by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of statutory capital, as defined by each state, and restrict the timing and
amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their parent companies. Generally, the amount of dividend distributions that may be paid by a regulated subsidiary, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited
based on the entity s level of statutory net income and statutory capital and surplus.      In 2007 and 2006, based on the previous years  statutory
net income and statutory capital and surplus levels, the maximum amounts of dividends which could be paid without prior regulatory approval were $2.5 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
Company s regulated subsidiaries paid approximately $2.9 billion and $2.5 billion in dividends to their parent companies, including approximately $400 million and $300 million of special dividends approved by state insurance regulators,
respectively.         
   34   

Contractual Obligations, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commitments       The following table summarizes future obligations due by period as of December 31, 2007, under our various contractual obligations, off-balance sheet arrangements
and commitments:       

(1)  
  Debt payments could be accelerated upon violation of debt covenants. We believe the likelihood of acceleration is remote.         

(2)  
  Calculated using stated rates from the debt agreements and related interest rate swap agreements and assuming amounts are outstanding through their contractual term. For
variable-rate obligations, we used the rates in place as of December 31, 2007 to estimate all remaining contractual payments. Includes unamortized discounts from par values.         

(3)  
  Includes fixed or minimum commitments under existing purchase obligations for goods and services, including agreements which are cancelable with the payment of an early termination
penalty. Excludes agreements that are cancelable without penalty and also excludes liabilities to the extent recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007.         

(4)  
  Estimated payments required under life and annuity contracts held by a divested entity. Under our reinsurance arrangement with OneAmerica Financial Partners, Inc. (OneAmerica) these
amounts are payable by OneAmerica, but we remain primarily liable to the policyholders if they are unable to pay. We have recorded a corresponding reinsurance receivable from OneAmerica in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

(5)  
  Unrecognized tax benefits relate to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48). Since the timing of future settlements are
uncertain, the long-term portion has been classified as  Thereafter.  See Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail.         

(6)  
  Includes remaining capital commitments for equity investment funds and the investment commitment related to the PacifiCare acquisition discussed below.         

(7)  
  Includes future payments to optionholders related to the application of Section 409A, as well as obligations associated with certain employee benefit programs and charitable
contributions related to the PacifiCare acquisition discussed below, which have been classified as  Thereafter  due to uncertainty regarding payment timing.        The table above includes a facility lease agreement that we signed in 2006. Lease payments are expected to commence under this agreement in March 2009, at the time we occupy the facility, and extend over a 20-year
period with total estimated lease payments of $229 million.      In conjunction with the PacifiCare acquisition we committed to make $50 million in charitable
contributions for the benefit of California health care consumers, which has been accrued in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We have committed to specific projects totaling approximately $18 million of the $50 million charitable commitment at
December 31, 2007, of which $6 million was paid. Additionally, we agreed to invest $200 million in  
       
   35   

California s health care infrastructure to further health care services to the underserved populations of the California marketplace, of which $8
million was invested at December 31, 2007. The timing and amount of individual contributions and investments are at our discretion subject to the advice and oversight of the local regulatory authorities; however, our goal is to have the
investment commitment fully funded by the end of 2010. The investment commitment remains in place for 20 years after funding. The unfunded charitable commitment and investment commitment have been included in the above table.      At December 31, 2007, we had pending cash acquisitions. See Note 4 of Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail.      We do not have any other material contractual obligations, off-balance sheet arrangements or commitments that require cash resources; however, we continually evaluate
opportunities to expand our operations. This includes internal development of new products, programs and technology applications, and may include acquisitions.       Medicare Part D Pharmacy Benefits Contract       Beginning January 1, 2006, the Company began serving as a plan sponsor offering Medicare
Part D prescription drug insurance coverage under contracts with CMS. The Company contracts with CMS on an annual basis. Under Medicare Part D, members have access to a standard drug benefit that features a monthly premium, typically with an initial
annual deductible, coinsurance of 25% for the member and 75% for the Company up to an initial coverage limit of $2,400 of annual drug costs, no insurance coverage between $2,400 and $5,451 (except the member gets the benefit of the Company s
significant drug discounts), and catastrophic coverage for annual drug costs in excess of $5,451 covered approximately 80% by CMS, 15% by the Company and 5% by the member up to an annual out-of-pocket maximum of $3,850.      The Company s contract with CMS includes risk-sharing provisions, wherein CMS retains approximately 75% to 80% of the losses or profits outside a pre-defined risk
corridor. The risk-sharing provisions take effect if actual pharmacy benefit costs are more than 2.5% above or below expected cost levels as submitted by the Company in its initial contract application. Contracts are generally non-cancelable by
enrollees; however, enrollees may change plans during an annual enrollment period each year.      As a result of the Medicare Part D product benefit design,
the Company incurs a disproportionate amount of pharmacy benefit costs early in the contract year. While the Company is responsible for approximately 67% of a Medicare Part D beneficiary s drug costs up to $2,400, the beneficiary is responsible
for 100% of their drug costs from $2,400 up to $5,451 (at the Company s discounted purchase price). Consequently, the Company incurs a disproportionate amount of pharmacy benefit costs in the first half of the contract year as compared with the
last half of the contract year, when comparatively more members will be incurring claims above the $2,400 initial coverage limit. The uneven timing of Medicare Part D pharmacy benefit claims results in losses in the first half of the year that
entitle the Company to risk-share adjustment payments from CMS. Accordingly, during the interim periods within the contract year we record a net risk-share receivable from CMS in Other Current Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and a
corresponding retrospective premium adjustment in Premium Revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. This represents the estimated amount payable by CMS to the Company under the risk-share contract provisions if the program were
terminated based on estimated costs incurred through that interim period. Those losses are typically expected to reverse in the second half of the year.      Total premium revenues from CMS related to the Medicare Part D program and all other Medicare-related programs were approximately 25% of our total consolidated revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007.      As of January 1, 2008, certain changes were made to the Medicare Part D coverage by CMS, including:       

36   

The annual out-of-pocket maximum increased to $4,050.          

The risk-share provisions take effect if actual costs are more than 5% above or below expected costs.          

CMS retains 50% to 80% of the losses or profits outside this risk corridor.         These changes result in an increase in the amount of losses or profits that we may realize from this contract in 2008 as the amount of risk retained by CMS has diminished.       AARP       We provide health insurance products and services to members of
AARP. These products and services are provided to supplement benefits covered under traditional Medicare (AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance), hospital indemnity insurance, health insurance focused on persons between 50 to 64 years of age, and other
products (Supplemental Health Insurance Program). Under the Supplemental Health Insurance Program, we are compensated for transaction processing and other services as well as for assuming underwriting risk. We are also engaged in product development
activities to complement the insurance offerings. Premium revenues from our portion of the AARP Supplemental Health Insurance Program were approximately $5.3 billion in 2007, $5.0 billion in 2006 and $4.9 billion in 2005.      The underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance business are directly recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund
(RSF). The primary components of the underwriting results are premium revenue, medical costs, investment income, administrative expenses, member service expenses, marketing expenses and premium taxes. Underwriting gains and losses are recorded as an
increase or decrease to the RSF and accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders, unless cumulative net losses were to exceed the balance in the RSF. To the extent underwriting losses exceed the balance in the RSF, we would have to fund
the deficit. Any deficit we fund could be recovered by underwriting gains in future periods of the contract. To date, we have not been required to fund any underwriting deficits. As further described in Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, the RSF balance is reported in Other Policy Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting and other risks and liabilities associated with the contract.
     Under separate trademark license agreements with AARP, we sell AARP-branded Medicare Prescription Drug benefit plans and Medicare Advantage plans. We pay
AARP a license fee for the use of the trademark and member data and assume all operational and underwriting risks.      On October 3, 2007, we entered
into new agreements with AARP which amended our existing arrangements. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.       Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates       Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make challenging,
subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently
sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We believe our critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 2 of
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Medical Costs        Each reporting period, we estimate our obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers but for which claims have either not yet been received or processed, and for
liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes. We develop estimates for medical care services incurred but  
       
   37   

not reported using an actuarial process that is consistently applied, centrally controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time
from date of service to claim receipt, claim backlogs, seasonal variances in medical care consumption, health care professional contract rate changes, medical care utilization and other medical cost trends, membership volume and demographics,
benefit plan changes, and business mix changes related to products, customers and geography. Depending on the health care professional and type of service, the typical billing lag for services can be up to 90 days from the date of service.
Substantially all claims related to medical care services are known and settled within nine to twelve months from the date of service. We estimate liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes based upon an analysis of
potential outcomes, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies.      Each period, we re-examine previously established medical costs
payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts and circumstances. As more complete claim information becomes available, we adjust the amount of the estimates, and include the changes in estimates in medical costs in
the period in which the change is identified. In every reporting period, our operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with previously reported periods. If the revised estimate of
prior period medical costs is less than the previous estimate, we will decrease reported medical costs in the current period (favorable development). If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is more than the previous estimate, we will
increase reported medical costs in the current period (unfavorable development). Historically, the net impact of estimate developments has represented less than 1% of annual medical costs, less than 5% of annual earnings from operations and less
than 4% of medical costs payable.      In developing our medical costs payable estimates, we apply different estimation methods depending on the month for
which incurred claims are being estimated. For example, we actuarially calculate completion factors using an analysis of claim adjudication patterns over the most recent 36-month period. A completion factor is an actuarial estimate, based upon
historical experience, of the percentage of incurred claims during a given period that have been adjudicated by us as of the date of estimation. For months prior to the most recent three months, we apply the completion factors to actual claims
adjudicated-to-date in order to estimate the expected amount of ultimate incurred claims for those months. We do not believe that completion factors are a reliable basis for estimating claims incurred for the most recent three months as there is
typically insufficient claim data available for those months to calculate credible completion factors. Accordingly, for the most recent three months, we estimate claim costs incurred primarily by applying observed medical cost trend factors to the
average per member per month (PMPM) medical costs incurred in prior months for which more complete claim data is available, supplemented by a review of near-term completion factors. Medical cost trend factors are developed through a comprehensive
analysis of claims incurred in prior months for which more complete claim data is available and by reviewing a broad set of health care utilization indicators including, but not limited to, pharmacy utilization trends, inpatient hospital census data
and incidence data from the National Centers for Disease Control, as well as through a review of near-term completion factors. This approach is consistently applied from period to period.      Completion factors are the most significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for older periods, generally periods prior to the most
recent three months. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for those periods as of December 31, 2007:       
       
   38   

Medical cost PMPM trend factors are the most significant factors we use in estimating our medical costs payable for the
most recent three months. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent three months as of December 31, 2007:       

(1)  
  Reflects estimated potential changes in medical costs and medical costs payable caused by changes in completion factors used in developing medical cost payable estimates for older
periods, generally periods prior to the most recent three months.         

(2)  
  Reflects estimated potential changes in medical costs and medical costs payable caused by changes in medical costs PMPM trend data used in developing medical cost payable estimates
for the most recent three months.        The analyses above include those outcomes that are considered reasonably likely based on our historical
experience in estimating liabilities for incurred but not reported benefit claims.      In order to evaluate the impact of changes in medical cost estimates
for any particular discrete period, one should consider both the amount of development recorded in the current period pertaining to prior periods and the amount of development recorded in subsequent periods pertaining to the current period. The
accompanying table provides a summary of the net impact of favorable development on medical costs and earnings from operations:       

(a)  
  The amount of favorable development recorded in the current year pertaining to the prior year less the amount of favorable development recorded in the subsequent year pertaining to
the current year.         

(b)  
  Represents reported amounts adjusted to reflect the net impact of medical cost development.         

(c)  
  Not yet determinable as the amount of prior period development recorded in 2008 will change as our December 31, 2007 medical costs payable estimate develops throughout 2008.
       Our estimate of medical costs payable represents management s best estimate of our liability for unpaid medical costs as of
December 31, 2007, developed using consistently applied actuarial methods. Management believes the amount of medical costs payable is reasonable and adequate to cover our liability for unpaid claims as of December 31, 2007; however, actual
claim payments may differ from established estimates. Assuming a hypothetical 1% difference between our December 31, 2007 estimates of medical costs payable and actual medical costs payable, excluding the AARP business, 2007 earnings from
operations would increase or decrease by $72 million and diluted net earnings per common share would increase or decrease by $0.03 per share.         
   39   

Revenues        Revenues are principally derived from health care insurance premiums. We recognize premium revenues in the period eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care services. Customers are typically billed monthly at a contracted rate
per eligible person multiplied by the total number of people eligible to receive services, as recorded in our records. Employer groups generally provide us with changes to their eligible population one month in arrears. Each billing includes an
adjustment for prior period changes in eligibility status that were not reflected in our previous billing. We estimate and adjust the current period s revenues and accounts receivable accordingly. Our estimates are based on historical trends,
premiums billed, the level of contract renewal activity and other relevant information. We revise estimates of revenue adjustments each period and record changes in the period they become known.        Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets        As of
December 31, 2007, we had long-lived assets, including goodwill, other intangible assets and property, equipment and capitalized software, of $20.7 billion. We review our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually at the
reporting unit level, and we review our remaining long-lived assets for impairment when events and changes in circumstances indicate we might not recover their carrying value. To determine the fair value of our long-lived assets and assess their
recoverability, we must make assumptions about a wide variety of internal and external factors including estimated future utility and estimated future cash flows, which in turn are based on estimates of future revenues, expenses and operating
margins. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets that could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders  equity in the period in
which the impairment occurs.        Investments        As of
December 31, 2007, we had approximately $13.4 billion of investments, primarily held in marketable debt securities. Our investments are principally classified as available for sale and are recorded at fair value. We exclude unrealized gains and
losses on investments available for sale from earnings and report them together, net of income tax effects, as a separate component in shareholders  equity. We continually monitor the difference between the cost and fair value of our
investments. As of December 31, 2007, our investments had gross unrealized gains of $182 million and gross unrealized losses of $27 million. If any of our investments experience a decline in fair value that is determined to be other than
temporary, based on analysis of relevant factors, we record a realized loss in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Management judgment is involved in evaluating whether a decline in an investment s fair value is other than temporary. We
analyze relevant factors individually and in combination including the length of time and extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer as well as specific events or circumstances
that may influence the operations of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient time in order to enable recovery of our cost. New information and the passage of time can change these judgments. We revise
impairment judgments when new information becomes known or when we do not anticipate holding the investment until recovery and record any resulting impairment charges at that time. We manage our investment portfolio to limit our exposure to any one
issuer or industry and largely limit our investments to U.S. Government and Agency securities, state and municipal securities, and corporate debt obligations that are investment grade.        Contingent Liabilities        Because of the nature of our businesses, we are routinely involved in various
disputes, legal proceedings and governmental audits and investigations. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from these matters. Our estimates are developed in consultation with outside legal counsel and are based
upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies and considering our insurance coverage, if any, for such matters. It is possible that future results of operations for any particular  
       
   40   

quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our estimates or assumptions. See    Cautionary Statements  for a
description of the risks related to our pending regulatory inquiries and litigation.       Legal Matters       A description of our legal proceedings is included in Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this report and is
incorporated by reference herein.       Concentrations of Credit Risk       Investments in financial instruments such as marketable securities and accounts receivable may subject us to concentrations of credit risk. Our investments in marketable securities are managed under an investment
policy authorized by our Board of Directors. This policy limits the amounts that may be invested in any one issuer and generally limits our investments to U.S. Government and Agency securities, state and municipal securities and corporate debt
obligations that are investment grade. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of employer groups that constitute our customer base. As of December 31, 2007, we had an aggregate $2.0
billion reinsurance receivable resulting from the sale of our Golden Rule Financial Corporation life and annuity business in 2005. We regularly evaluate the financial condition of the reinsurer and only record the reinsurance receivable to the
extent that the amounts are deemed probable of recovery. As of December 31, 2007, there were no other significant concentrations of credit risk.       Cautionary Statements       The statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities
analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases  believes,   anticipates,   expects,   plans,   seeks, 
 intends,   will likely result,   estimates,   projects  or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the  safe
harbor  provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.      The following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. Except to the extent otherwise required
by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused
results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or
all forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many
factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
predict or quantify. Actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications.         
   41   

Cautionary Statements Relating to Our Historical Stock Option Practices         Matters relating to or arising out of our historical stock option practices, including regulatory inquiries, litigation matters, and potential
additional cash and noncash charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company.        In early 2006, our Board of Directors initiated an
independent review of the Company s historical stock option practices from 1994 to 2005. The independent review was conducted by an independent committee comprised of three independent directors of the Company (Independent Committee) with the
assistance of independent counsel and independent accounting advisors. On October 15, 2006, we announced that the Independent Committee had completed their review of the Company s historical stock option practices and reported the findings
to the non-management directors of the Company. As a result of our historical stock option practices, we restated our previously filed financial statements, we are subject to various regulatory inquiries and litigation matters, and we may be subject
to further cash and noncash charges, the outcome of any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on us.       Regulatory
Inquiries       As previously disclosed, the SEC and the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York are conducting investigations into the
Company s historical stock option practices and the Company has received requests for documents from the Minnesota Attorney General and various Congressional committees in connection with these issues and the Company s executive
compensation practices. We have not resolved these matters. We cannot provide assurance that the Company will not be subject to adverse publicity, regulatory or criminal fines, penalties, or other sanctions or contingent liabilities or adverse
customer reactions in connection with these matters. In addition, we may be subject to additional regulatory inquiries arising out of the review of the Independent Committee, the review of a special litigation committee, consisting of two former
Minnesota Supreme Court Justices, appointed by our Board of Directors to review claims asserted in federal and state shareholder derivative claims relating to our historical stock option practices (Special Litigation Committee), and the related
restatement of our historical financial statements. Regulatory inquiries may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any regulatory inquiry could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.       Litigation Matters       We and certain of our current and former directors and officers are defendants in a consolidated federal securities class action, an Employment Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) class action, and state and federal shareholder derivative actions relating to our historical stock option practices. We also have received shareholder demands relating to those practices.      In addition, following our announcement that we would delay filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, we received a purported
notice of default from persons claiming to hold our 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2036 alleging a violation of the indenture governing those debt securities.      We cannot provide assurance that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a more detailed description of these proceedings and shareholder demands.      In addition, we may be subject to additional
litigation, proceedings or actions arising out of the Independent Committee s review, the Special Litigation Committee s review and the related restatement of our historical financial statements. Litigation regulatory proceedings or
actions may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit or any potential regulatory proceeding or action could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.         
   42   

Potential Additional Cash and Noncash Charges       While we believe we have made appropriate judgments in our restated financial statements in determining the financial impacts of our historical stock option practices, we
cannot provide assurance that the SEC will agree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impacts, including the adjustments that we made based on our determination of the measurement dates for our
historical stock option grants. If the SEC disagrees with our financial adjustments and such disagreement results in material changes to our historical financial statements, we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior
filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated.      In addition, other adjustments for non-operating cash charges may be required in
connection with the resolution of stock option-related matters arising under litigation and the above-referenced regulatory reviews, the amount and timing of which are uncertain but which could be material.       Cautionary Statements Relating to Our Business         If we fail to effectively estimate and manage our health care costs, the profitability of our risk-based products could decline and could materially adversely affect our future financial results.        Under our risk-based product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. Premium revenues
from risk-based products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of our
risk-based products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage health care costs. Total health care costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. Our premium
revenue on commercial policies is typically fixed for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted in June the year before the contract year.
We base the premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimate of future health care costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulations and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and
reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits or other
regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. As a measure of the impact of medical cost on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs
or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products, our annual
net earnings for 2007 would have been reduced by approximately $190 million. In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. If these
estimates prove too low, they will have a negative impact on our future results.        If we fail to comply with or fail to respond
quickly and appropriately to frequent changes in federal and state regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.        Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. The broad latitude
that is given to the agencies administering those regulations, as well as future laws and rules could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital
requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. We must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for
certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of certain acquisitions. Delays in obtaining approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce our revenue or increase
our costs.         
   43   

We participate in federal, state and local government health care coverage programs. These programs generally are subject
to frequent change, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or health care costs under such programs. Such changes have
adversely affected our financial results and willingness to participate in such programs in the past, and may do so in the future.      State legislatures and
Congress continue to focus on health care issues. Legislative and regulatory proposals at state and federal levels may affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals;
physician reimbursement methods and payment rates; coverage determinations; mandated benefits and minimum medical expenditures; claim payments and processing; drug utilization and patient safety efforts; use and maintenance of individually
identifiable health information; medical malpractice litigation; consumer-driven health plans and health savings accounts and insurance market reforms; confidentiality of health information; and government-sponsored programs. For example, from time
to time, Congress has considered various forms of managed care reform legislation which if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. Additionally, there have been legislative attempts to limit ERISA s
preemptive effect on state laws. If adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure and could permit greater state regulation of our operations. We cannot predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become law, or, if
enacted, what their terms or the regulations promulgated pursuant to such laws will be, but their enactment could increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability and require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk
for loss of business.      In addition, the health care industry is subject to negative publicity. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and
legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by: adversely affecting our ability to market our products and services; requiring us to change our products and
services; or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate.      In August 2007, we entered into a multi-state national agreement with regulatory
offices in 38 states relating to the legacy UnitedHealthcare fully insured commercial business. The agreement covers several key areas of review of our business operations, including claims payment accuracy and timeliness, appeals and grievances
resolution timeliness, health care professional network/service, utilization review, explanation of benefits accuracy, and oversight and due diligence of contracted entities and vendor performance. The agreement addressed and resolved past
regulatory matters related to the areas of review prior to August 2007 and establishes a transparent framework for evaluating and regulating performance through December 2010. On a prospective basis, the agreement is similar to a customer
performance guarantee, whereby we will self report quarterly and annually our operational performance on a set of national performance standards agreed to by the participating states. We must perform to the standards set forth in the agreement,
or be subject to fines and penalties.      We are also involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These regulatory activities include
routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments and state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil
Rights, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC and other governmental authorities. Reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or
penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. For example, in 2007, the California Department of Managed Health Care and the
California Department of Insurance examined our PacifiCare health plans in California. As a result of these examinations, the California Department of Managed Health Care has assessed a penalty of $3.5 million related to its findings. The California
Department of Insurance, however, has not yet levied a financial penalty related to its findings. In addition, public perception or publicity surrounding routine governmental investigations may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation
in various markets or make it more difficult for us to sell products and services.         
   44   

Our business providing PBM services are subject to federal and state regulations associated with
the PBM industry and if we fail to comply with these regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.        In connection with the PacifiCare merger, we acquired a PBM business, Prescription Solutions. We also provide PBM services through UnitedHealth Pharmaceutical Solutions. Prescription Solutions and UnitedHealth
Pharmaceutical Solutions are subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new
regulations for the industry that could adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or required disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies. In the event a court were to determine that our PBM business acts as a
fiduciary under ERISA, we could be subject to claims for alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations in implementation of formularies, preferred drug listings and drug management programs, contracting network practices, specialty drug distribution and
other transactions. Our PBM business also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose our PBM subsidiary
to civil and criminal penalties. We also face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order pharmacy, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care
products.        If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing
enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.        Our businesses compete
throughout the United States and face competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. For our Health Care Services segment, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana
Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments
such as Medicare specialty services. For our Prescription Solutions business, competitors include Medco Health Solutions, Inc., CVS/Caremark Corporation and Express Scripts, Inc. Our OptumHealth and Ingenix business segments also compete with a
number of other businesses. The addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily, and customers enjoy significant flexibility in moving between competitors. In particular markets, competitors may have capabilities or resources that give them
a competitive advantage. Greater market share, established reputation, superior supplier or health care professional arrangements, existing business relationships, and other factors all can provide a competitive advantage to our businesses or to
their competitors. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these
industries. Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or advance profitability. If we do not complete effectively in our markets,
if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership does not increase as we expect, if membership declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable
products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.        A reduction or less than expected increase in Medicare and Medicaid program funding and/or our failure to retain and acquire Medicare, Medicaid and
State Medicaid Children s Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP) enrollees could adversely affect our revenues and financial results.        We
participate as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and various Medicaid and SCHIP programs and receive revenues from the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP programs to provide benefits under these programs. Our participation in these programs
is through bids that are submitted periodically. Revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. Funding
for these programs is dependent upon  
       
   45   

many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions at the federal or applicable state level and general political issues and
priorities. A reduction or less than expected increase in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may adversely affect our revenues and financial results.      Our ability to retain and acquire Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP enrollees is impacted by bids and plan designs submitted by us and our competitors. Under the Medicaid
Managed Care program, state Medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals
of state Medicaid Managed Care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee
premium below a threshold, which is set by the government after our bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government threshold, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members
auto-assigned to us. For example, we lost approximately 650,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2008 because our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding
enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. In the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect or our competitors  bids and positioning are different than anticipated, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the
Medicare program or otherwise, our financial results could be materially affected.        If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory
relationships with physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, our business could be adversely affected.        We contract with physicians,
hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for competitive prices and services. Our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to
maintain these competitive prices and services. In any particular market, these physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher health care costs, less
desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have
significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing
leverage, may compete directly with us. If these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those
areas could be adversely affected.      In addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. Under the
typical arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premium to cover all the medical costs provided to the capitated member. Under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk
sharing and other incentive arrangements. Capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the professional. To the
extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been
the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care
provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. There can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the
costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations.         
   46   

If we fail to comply with restrictions on patient privacy and information security, including
taking steps to ensure that our business associates who obtain access to sensitive patient information maintain its confidentiality, our reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.        The use of individually identifiable data by our businesses is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by
legislation or administrative interpretation. Various state laws address the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data to the extent they are more restrictive than those contained in the privacy and security provisions in the
federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and in Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA). HIPAA also requires that we impose privacy and security requirements on our business associates (as such term is defined in the
HIPAA regulations). Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our business associates, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. In addition, despite the security measures we have in place to
ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or
human errors or other similar events. Compliance with any privacy proposals, requirements, and new regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes, and the effects of
potential noncompliance by our business associates. They also may impose further restrictions on our use of patient identifiable data that is housed in one or more of our administrative databases. Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security
breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of
operations.        Our relationship with AARP is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business
and results of operations.        Under our agreements with AARP, we provide AARP-branded Medicare Supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and
other products to AARP members and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to AARP members and non-members. One of our agreements with AARP expands the relationship to include AARP-branded Medicare Advantage plans for AARP members and non-members.
Our agreements with AARP contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. The AARP agreements may be terminated
early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the agreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in the financial condition of the Company, material changes in the Medicare programs,
material harm to AARP caused by the Company, and by mutual agreement. The success of our AARP arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service AARP and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services
competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. The loss of our AARP relationship could have an adverse effect on our business
and results of operations.        Because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which, if
resolved unfavorably to us, could result in substantial monetary damages.        Periodically, we become a party to the types of legal actions that can
affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims, shareholder suits, and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the
nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. These matters include, among others, claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment
(including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), medical malpractice actions, contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business
practices. We are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups.         
   47   

We are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. Although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside
insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from
self-insured matters, however, it is possible that the level of actual losses may exceed the liabilities recorded.      A description of material legal actions
in which we are currently involved is included in Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. Therefore, these
legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.        If we fail to
properly maintain the integrity of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, our business could be materially adversely affected.        Our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective and efficient service to our customers, and to accurately report our financial results
depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. As a result of technology initiatives, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been taking steps to consolidate the number of systems we
operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with
continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and changing customer patterns. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to
maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have disputes with
customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory problems, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. In addition, failure to consolidate our systems successfully could result in higher than
expected costs and diversion of management s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results.        If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our business could be
adversely affected.        We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets,
copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in
the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary
information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.        If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders  equity and debt ratings could be materially adversely affected.        Due largely to our recent acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were
approximately $18.6 billion as of December 31, 2007, representing approximately 37% of our total assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our books. We periodically evaluate
our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment of our
goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders  equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders  equity could, in turn, negatively impact our
debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants.         
   48   

Our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to
obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations or financial position may be adversely affected.        Because we
operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. These subsidiaries generally are regulated by states  Departments of Insurance. We
are also required by law to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium generated. A significant increase in premium volume will
require additional capitalization from us. In most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts, or, in some
states, any amount. In addition, we normally notify the state Departments of Insurance prior to making payments that do not require approval. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our operations
or financial position may be adversely affected.        Downgrades in our debt ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.        Claims paying ability, financial strength, and debt ratings by recognized rating
organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe our claims paying ability and
financial strength ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and
there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each rating agency s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to
policyholders. Downgrades in our ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.        Any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects.        As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter
into agreements relating to such transactions. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a
competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.        Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially adversely affect our financial results.        Fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability and capital position. Volatility in interest rates affects our returns on, and the
market value of, fixed income and short term investments, which comprise the majority of the fair value of our investments at December 31, 2007. In addition, defaults by issuers, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal
bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations could reduce our investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses as we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would adversely affect
our profitability and shareholders  equity.      We also invest a smaller proportion of our investments in equity investments, which are subject to
greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses.
        
   49   

ITEM 7A.   
       QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         Market risk represents the risk of changes in the fair value of a financial instrument caused by changes in interest rates or equity prices. The Company s primary market risk is exposure to changes in interest
rates that could impact the fair value of our investments and long-term debt.      Approximately $13.0 billion of our investments at December 31, 2007
were debt securities. Assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase or decrease in interest rates applicable to our fixed-income investment portfolio at December 31, 2007, the fair value of our fixed-income investments would decrease or
increase by approximately $460 million. We manage our investment portfolio to limit our exposure to any one issuer or industry and largely limit our investments to U.S. Government and Agency securities, state and municipal securities, and
corporate debt obligations that are investment grade.      To mitigate the financial impact of changes in interest rates, we have entered into interest rate
swap agreements to more closely align the fixed interest rates of our long-term debt with the variable rates of our cash equivalents and short-term investments. Including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements, approximately $8.2 billion of
our commercial paper and debt had variable rates of interest and $2.8 billion had fixed rates as of December 31, 2007. A hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of our debt by approximately $330
million.      At December 31, 2007, we had $383 million of equity investments, a portion of which were held in various public and non-public companies
concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. Market conditions that affect the value of health care or technology stocks will likewise impact the value of our equity portfolio.         
   50   

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA          UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Statements of Operations        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   51   

UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Balance Sheets        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   52   

UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   53   

UnitedHealth Group        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        
    See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   54   

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements        

1.   
   Description of Business         UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (also
referred to as  UnitedHealth Group,   the Company,   we,   us,  and  our ) is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Through strategically aligned,
market-defined businesses, we design products, provide services and apply technologies that improve access to health and well-being services, simplify the health care experience, promote quality and make health care more affordable.       

2.   
   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies          Basis of
Presentation       We have prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and have included
the accounts of UnitedHealth Group and its subsidiaries. We have eliminated all intercompany balances and transactions. Certain historical financial data was revised to reflect our new segment operating and financial reporting structure. See Note 14
of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Use of Estimates       These Consolidated Financial Statements include certain amounts that are based on our best estimates and judgments. These estimates require us to apply complex assumptions and judgments, often because we must make
estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and will likely change in subsequent periods. The most significant estimates relate to medical costs, medical costs payable, revenues, intangible asset valuations, asset
impairments, investment valuation and contingent liabilities. We adjust these estimates each period, as more current information becomes available. The impact of any changes in estimates is included in the determination of earnings in the period in
which the estimate is adjusted.       Revenues       Premium
revenues are primarily derived from risk-based health insurance arrangements in which the premium is fixed, typically for a one-year period, and we assume the economic risk of funding our customers  health care services and related
administrative costs. We recognize premium revenues in the period in which eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care services. We record health care premium payments we receive from our customers in advance of the service period as
unearned premiums.      Service revenues consist primarily of fees derived from services performed for customers that self-insure the medical costs of their
employees and their dependents. Under service fee contracts, we recognize revenue in the period the related services are performed based upon the fee charged to the customer. The customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their
employees and their employees  dependents, and we administer the payment of customer funds to physicians and other health care professionals from customer-funded bank accounts. Because we neither have the obligation for funding the medical
expenses, nor do we have responsibility for delivering the medical care, we do not recognize premium revenue and medical costs for these contracts in our Consolidated Financial Statements.      For both premium risk-based and fee-based customer arrangements, we provide coordination and facilitation of medical services; transaction processing; customer, consumer
and care professional services; and access to contracted networks of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals.      Through our Prescription
Solutions pharmacy benefits management (PBM) business, revenues are derived from products sold through a contracted network of retail pharmacies, and from administrative services, including  
       
   55   

claims processing and formulary design and management. Product revenues include ingredient costs (net of rebates), a negotiated dispensing fee and customer
co-payments for drugs dispensed through our mail-service pharmacy. In all retail pharmacy transactions, revenues recognized always exclude the member s applicable co-payment. Product revenues are recognized upon sale or shipment. Service
revenues are recognized when the prescription claim is adjudicated. The Company has entered into retail service contracts that separately obligate us to pay our network pharmacy providers for benefits provided to its customers, whether or not we are
paid. We are also involved in establishing the prices charged by retail pharmacies, determining which drugs will be included in formulary listings and selecting which retail pharmacies will be included in the network offered to plan sponsors 
members. As a result, revenues are reported on a gross basis in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Gross Revenue as a Principal versus Net as an Agent.  Product revenues also include sales of
Ingenix syndicated content products which are recognized as revenue upon shipment.       Medical Costs and Medical Costs Payable       Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of our obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers but for
which we have either not yet received or processed claims, and for liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes. We develop estimates for medical costs incurred but not reported using an actuarial process that is consistently
applied, centrally controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time from date of service to claim receipt, claim backlogs, care professional contract rate changes, medical care consumption and other medical cost trends.
We estimate liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes based upon an analysis of potential outcomes, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Each period, we re-examine previously established medical
costs payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts and circumstances. As the liability estimates recorded in prior periods become more exact, we adjust the amount of the estimates, and include the changes in
estimates in medical costs in the period in which the change is identified. In every reporting period, our operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with previously reported
periods.       Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments       Cash
and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that generally have an original maturity of three months or less. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their carrying value because of the short maturity of the instruments.
Investments with maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term. We may sell investments classified as long-term before their maturities to fund working capital or for other purposes. Because of regulatory requirements, certain
investments are included in long-term investments regardless of their maturity date. We classify these investments as held-to-maturity and report them at amortized cost. All other investments are classified as available for sale and reported at fair
value based on quoted market prices.      We exclude unrealized gains and losses on investments available for sale from earnings and report them, net of income
tax effects, as a separate component of shareholders  equity. We continually monitor the difference between the cost and estimated fair value of our investments. For those investments in an unrealized loss position, we analyze relevant factors
individually and in combination including the length of time and extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer as well as specific events or circumstances that may influence the
operations of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient time to recover our cost. New information and the passage of time can change these judgments. We revise impairment judgments when new information becomes
known or when we do not anticipate holding the investment until the forecasted recovery. If any of our investments experience a decline in value that is determined to be other than temporary, based on analysis of relevant factors, we record a
realized loss in Investment and Other Income in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We manage our investment portfolio to limit our exposure to any one issuer or industry and largely limit our investments to U.S. Government and Agency
securities, state and municipal securities, and corporate debt obligations that are investment grade. To calculate realized gains and losses on the sale of investments, we use the specific cost or amortized cost of each investment sold.   
     
   56   

Assets Under Management       We administer certain aspects of AARP s insurance program (See Note 12). Pursuant to our agreement, AARP assets are managed separately from our general investment portfolio and are used to pay costs associated with the AARP program.
These assets are invested at our discretion, within investment guidelines approved by AARP. We do not guarantee any rates of return on these investments and, upon transfer of the AARP contract to another entity, we would transfer cash equal in
amount to the fair value of these investments at the date of transfer to that entity. Because the purpose of these assets is to fund the medical costs payable, the rate stabilization fund (RSF) liabilities and other related liabilities associated
with the AARP contract, assets under management are classified as current assets, consistent with the classification of these liabilities. Interest earnings and realized investment gains and losses on these assets accrue to the overall benefit of
the AARP policyholders through the RSF. Accordingly, they are not included in our earnings.       Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software
      Property, equipment and capitalized software are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capitalized software consists of
certain costs incurred in the development of internal-use software, including external direct costs of materials and services and payroll costs of employees devoted to specific software development.      We calculate depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The useful lives for property, equipment and
capitalized software are: from three to seven years for furniture, fixtures and equipment; from 35 to 40 years for buildings; the shorter of the useful life or remaining lease term for leasehold improvements; and from three to nine years for
capitalized software. The weighted-average useful life of property, equipment and capitalized software at December 31, 2007 was approximately four years. The net book value of property and equipment was $1,060 million and $966 million as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The net book value of capitalized software was $1,061 million and $928 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price of businesses we
have acquired exceeds the estimated fair value of the net tangible assets and separately identifiable intangible assets of these businesses. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are tested at least
annually for impairment. Intangible assets with discrete useful lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. There was no impairment at December 31, 2007.       Long-Lived Assets       We review long-lived assets, including property,
equipment, capitalized software and intangible assets, for events or changes in circumstances that would indicate we might not recover their carrying value. We consider many factors, including estimated future utility and cash flows associated with
the assets, to make this decision. An impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which an asset s carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. There was no impairment at December 31, 2007.       Other Policy Liabilities       Other policy liabilities include the RSF
associated with the AARP program (See Note 12), deposits under the Medicare Part D program (See Note 3), customer balances related to experience-rated insurance products and the current portion of future policy benefits for life insurance and
annuity contracts. Customer balances represent excess customer payments and deposit accounts under experience-rated contracts. At the customer s option, these balances may be refunded or used to pay future premiums or claims under eligible
contracts.         
   57   

Income Taxes       Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the differences between the financial and income tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities based on enacted tax rates and laws. The deferred income tax provision or benefit
generally reflects the net change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, excluding any deferred income tax assets and liabilities of acquired businesses. The current income tax provision reflects the tax consequences of
revenues and expenses currently taxable or deductible on various income tax returns for the year reported.       Future Policy Benefits for Life and Annuity
Contracts and Reinsurance Receivables       Future policy benefits for life insurance and annuity contracts represent account balances that accrue to the
benefit of the policyholders, excluding surrender charges, for universal life and investment annuity products. As a result of the October 2005 sale of the life and annuity business within our subsidiary Golden Rule Financial Corporation (Golden
Rule) under an indemnity reinsurance arrangement, we have maintained a liability associated with the reinsured contracts, as we remain primarily liable to the policyholders, and have recorded a corresponding reinsurance receivable due from the
purchaser in Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We evaluate the financial condition of the reinsurer and only record the reinsurance receivable to the extent of probable recovery.       Policy Acquisition Costs       Our commercial health insurance contracts
typically have a one-year term and may be cancelled upon 30 days notice by either the Company or the customer. Costs related to the acquisition and renewal of customer contracts are charged to expense as incurred.       Share-Based Compensation       In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (FAS 123R). FAS 123R supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees  (APB 25). Under APB 25, no compensation expense was recognized for employee stock option grants if the exercise price of the Company s stock option was at least equal to the quoted market price of the underlying stock on the
measurement date. FAS 123R requires the determination of the fair value of the share-based compensation at the grant date and the recognition of the related expense over the period in which the share-based compensation vests. The Company adopted
FAS 123R effective January 1, 2006, using the modified retrospective method. All prior periods have been restated to give effect to the fair-value-based method of accounting for awards granted in fiscal years beginning on or after
January 1, 1995.       Net Earnings Per Common Share       We compute basic net earnings per common share by dividing net earnings by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. We determine diluted net earnings per common share using the weighted-average number of
common shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for potentially dilutive shares associated with the exercise of common stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs) and the conversion of convertible subordinated debentures.
      Derivative Financial Instruments       As part of our risk
management strategy, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. The differential between fixed and variable rates to be paid or received is accrued and recognized over the life of the agreements as an
adjustment to interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of  
       
   58   

Operations. Our existing interest rate swap agreements convert a majority of our interest from a fixed to a variable rate and are accounted for under the
short-cut method as fair value hedges. Additional information on our existing interest rate swap agreements is included in Note 8.       Fair Value of
Financial Instruments       In the normal course of business, we invest in various financial assets, incur various financial liabilities and enter into
agreements involving derivative securities.      Fair values are disclosed for all financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate fair value,
whether or not such values are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management obtains quoted market prices for these disclosures.      The carrying
amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for cash and cash equivalents, premium and other receivables, unearned premiums, accounts payable and accrued expenses, income taxes payable, and certain other current liabilities approximate fair
value because of their short-term nature.      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial
instrument:       

Current and long-term investments, available-for-sale, at fair value: The carrying amount is stated at fair value, based on quoted market prices, where available.
For securities not actively traded, fair values were estimated using values obtained from independent pricing services or quoted market prices of comparable instruments.          

Senior unsecured notes: Estimated based on third-party quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.          

Commercial paper: The carrying amount for commercial paper approximates fair value as the underlying instruments have variable interest rates at market value.

Interest rate swaps: The fair value of the interest rate swaps are based on the quoted market prices by the financial institution that is the counterparty to the
swap.          Recently Adopted Accounting Standards       In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes by
prescribing a minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, disclosure
and transition. We adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007 (See Note 11).       Recently Issued Accounting Standards       In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141 (Revised 2007),  Business Combinations    (FAS 141R) which replaces FAS No. 141,  Business
Combinations . FAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and
the goodwill acquired. The statement also establishes disclosure requirements that will enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. FAS 141R is effective for our fiscal year 2009 and must be applied
prospectively to all new acquisitions closing on or after January 1, 2009. Early adoption of this standard is not permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, of FAS 141R on our Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   59   

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
  An Amendment of ARB No. 51  (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires that accounting and reporting for minority interests be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. The standard is effective for our
fiscal year 2009 and must be applied prospectively. We do not expect that the adoption of FAS 160 will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (FAS 159). FAS 159
expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under FAS 159, a company may elect to use fair value to measure various assets and liabilities including
accounts receivable, available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, equity method investments, accounts payable, guarantees and issued debt. If the use of fair value is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized
in earnings and cannot be deferred. The fair value election is irrevocable and generally made on an instrument-by-instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to measure based on fair value. At the adoption date,
unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the adoption of FAS 159, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. FAS
159 is effective for our fiscal year 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, of FAS 159 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In
September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (FAS 157). FAS 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It does not require any new fair value measurements, but does
require expanded disclosures to provide information about the extent to which fair value is used to measure assets and liabilities, the methods and assumptions used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measures on earnings. In
February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  (the FSP). The FSP delayed, for one year, the effective date of FAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except those
that are recognized or disclosed in the financial statements on at least an annual basis. Consequently, FAS 157 will be effective for our fiscal year 2008 for financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed in our Consolidated Financial
Statements. The deferred provisions of FAS 157 will be effective for our fiscal year 2009. We have evaluated the effects of the initial adoption of FAS 157 for our 2008 fiscal year and do not expect its adoption will have a material impact on our
Consolidated Financial Statements. We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, of the entirety of FAS 157 on our fiscal year 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements.       

3.   
   Medicare Part D Pharmacy Benefits Contract         Beginning
January 1, 2006, the Company began serving as a plan sponsor offering Medicare Part D prescription drug insurance coverage under contracts with the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS). Under the Medicare Part D program,
there are six separate elements of payment received by the Company during the plan year. These payment elements are as follows:       

CMS Premium    CMS pays a fixed monthly premium per member to the Company for the entire plan year.          

Member Premium    Additionally, certain members pay a fixed monthly premium to the Company for the entire plan year.          

Low-Income Premium Subsidy    For qualifying low-income members, CMS pays some or all of the member s monthly premiums to the Company on the
member s behalf.          

Catastrophic Reinsurance Subsidy    CMS pays the Company a cost reimbursement estimate monthly to fund the CMS obligation to pay approximately 80% of the
costs incurred by individual members in excess of the individual annual out-of-pocket maximum of $3,850. A settlement is made based on actual cost experience subsequent to the end of the plan year.          

Low-Income Member Cost Sharing Subsidy    For qualifying low-income members, CMS pays on the member s behalf, some or all of a member s cost
sharing amounts, such as deductibles and coinsurance. The  
          
   60   

cost sharing subsidy is funded by CMS through monthly payments to the Company. The Company administers and pays the subsidized portion of the claims on
behalf of CMS, and a settlement payment is made between CMS and the Company based on actual claims experience, subsequent to the end of the plan year.          

CMS Risk-Share    If the ultimate per member per month benefit costs of any Medicare Part D regional plan varies more than 2.5% above or below the level
estimated in the original bid submitted by the Company and approved by CMS, there is a risk-share settlement with CMS subsequent to the end of the plan year. The risk-share adjustment, if any, is recorded as an adjustment to premium revenues and
other receivables or liabilities.         The CMS Premium, the Member Premium, and the Low-Income Premium Subsidy represent payments for the
Company s insurance risk coverage under the Medicare Part D program and therefore are recorded as Premium Revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Premium revenues are recognized ratably over the period in which eligible
individuals are entitled to receive prescription drug benefits. We record premium payments received in advance of the applicable service period in Unearned Premiums in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      The Catastrophic Reinsurance Subsidy and the Low-Income Member Cost Sharing Subsidy represent cost reimbursements under the Medicare Part D program. The Company is fully
reimbursed by CMS for costs incurred for these contract elements and, accordingly, there is no insurance risk to the Company. Amounts received for these subsidies are not reflected as premium revenues, but rather are accounted for as deposits, with
the related liability recorded in Other Policy Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Related cash flows are presented as Customer Funds Administered within financing cash flows in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of
December 31, 2007, the amount on deposit for these subsidies for the 2007 contract year was approximately $395 million and the payable to CMS for these subsidies for the 2006 contract year was approximately $55 million.      Pharmacy benefit costs and administrative costs under the contract are expensed as incurred and are recognized in Medical Costs and Operating Costs, respectively, in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.      As a result of the Medicare Part D product benefit design, the Company incurs a disproportionate amount of pharmacy
benefit costs early in the contract year. While the Company is responsible for approximately 67% of a Medicare Part D beneficiary s drug costs up to $2,400, the beneficiary is responsible for 100% of their drug costs from $2,400 up to $5,451
(at the Company s discounted purchase price). Consequently, the Company incurs a disproportionate amount of pharmacy benefit costs in the first half of the contract year as compared with the last half of the contract year, when comparatively
more members will be incurring claims above the $2,400 initial coverage limit. The uneven timing of Medicare Part D pharmacy benefit claims results in losses in the first half of the year that entitle the Company to risk-share adjustment payments
from CMS. Accordingly, during the interim periods within the contract year we record a net risk-share receivable from CMS in Other Current Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and a corresponding retrospective premium adjustment in Premium
Revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. This represents the estimated amount payable by CMS to the Company under the risk-share contract provisions if the program were terminated based on estimated costs incurred through that interim
period. Those losses are typically expected to reverse in the second half of the year.      The risk-share payable due to CMS for the 2007 contract year
through December 31, 2007 was approximately $145 million. This final risk-share amount is expected to be settled approximately six months after the contract year-end. The risk-share payable due to CMS as of December 31, 2007 for the 2006
contract year was approximately $135 million, subject to the reconciliation process with CMS, and was paid in January 2008. These risk-share payables, totalling $280 million are recorded in Other Policy Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.      Total premium revenues from CMS related to the Medicare Part D program and all other Medicare-related programs were approximately 25% of our total
consolidated revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007.         
   61   

As of January 1, 2008, certain changes were made to the Medicare Part D coverage by CMS, including:

The annual out-of-pocket maximum increased to $4,050.          

The risk-share provisions take effect if actual costs are more than 5% above or below expected costs.          

CMS retains 50% to 80% of the losses or profits outside this risk corridor.         These changes result in an increase in the amount of losses or profits that we may realize from this contract in 2008 as the amount of risk retained by CMS has diminished.       

4.   
   Acquisitions         On March 12, 2007, we announced that we had signed a
definitive merger agreement under which the Company will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Sierra Health Services, Inc. (Sierra), a diversified health care services company based in Las Vegas, Nevada, for approximately $2.6 billion in cash,
representing a price of $43.50 per share of Sierra common stock. The transaction has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, Sierra s shareholders and all required state regulatory agencies, and is expected to close in early
2008, subject to federal regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. This acquisition is intended to strengthen our position in the rapidly growing southwest region.      On January 10, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Fiserv Health, Inc. (Fiserv Health), a subsidiary of Fiserv, Inc., for $730 million in cash. Fiserv Health is a leading administrator of medical
benefits and also provides care facilitation services, specialty health solutions and PBM services. The acquired businesses will each align with our Health Care Services, OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions segments. We expect that this
transaction will allow us to expand the capacity of our existing benefits administration businesses and enable existing and new Fiserv Health customers to leverage our full range of assets, including ancillary services, our national network and
technology tools. The pro forma effects of this acquisition on our Consolidated Financial Statements were not material.      On January 8, 2008, we
announced that AmeriChoice had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Unison Health Plans (Unison). Unison provides government-sponsored health plan coverage to approximately 370,000 people in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Tennessee, Delaware and South
Carolina through a network of independent health care professionals. This all-cash transaction is expected to close by mid-2008, subject to required regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. The pro forma effects of this acquisition
on our Consolidated Financial Statements are not expected to be material.      On December 1, 2006, our Health Care Services business segment acquired the
Student Insurance Division (Student Resources) of The MEGA Life and Health Insurance Company through an asset purchase agreement. Student Resources primarily serves college and university students. This acquisition strengthened our position in this
market and provided expanded distribution opportunities for our other UnitedHealth Group businesses. In exchange and under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, we issued a 10-year, $95 million promissory note bearing a 5.4% fixed interest rate
and paid approximately $1 million in cash. The results of operations and financial condition of Student Resources have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the acquisition date. The pro forma effects of the Student Resources
acquisition on our Consolidated Financial Statements were not material.      On February 24, 2006, we acquired John Deere Health Care, Inc. (JDHC). JDHC
serves employers primarily in Iowa, central and western Illinois, eastern Tennessee and southwestern Virginia. This acquisition strengthened our resources and capabilities in these areas. The operations of JDHC reside primarily within our Health
Care Services segment. We paid approximately $515 million in cash, including transaction costs, in exchange for all  
       
   62   

of the outstanding equity of JDHC. The purchase price and costs associated with the acquisition exceeded the estimated preliminary fair value of the net
tangible assets acquired by approximately $376 million. Based on management s consideration of fair value, which included completion of a valuation analysis, we have allocated the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible
assets acquired to finite-lived intangible assets of $60 million and goodwill of $316 million. The finite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of member lists and physician and hospital networks, with an estimated weighted-average useful life
of approximately 15 years. The acquired goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations and financial condition of JDHC have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the acquisition date. The pro forma
effects of the JDHC acquisition on our Consolidated Financial Statements were not material. Acquired net tangible assets and liabilities are categorized as follows: cash and cash equivalents of $46 million; investments of $197 million; accounts
receivable and other current assets of $60 million; property, equipment and capitalized software and other assets of $29 million; medical costs payable of $131 million and other liabilities of $62 million. JDHC has been renamed UnitedHealthcare
Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.      On December 20, 2005, the Company acquired PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (PacifiCare). PacifiCare
provides health care and benefit services to individuals and employers, principally in markets in the western United States. This merger significantly strengthened our resources by enhancing our capabilities on the Pacific Coast and in other western
states and broadening the scope of our product offerings for a host of specialized services. The operations of PacifiCare reside primarily within our Health Care Services, OptumHealth and Prescription Solutions segments. Under the terms of the
agreement, PacifiCare shareholders received 1.1 shares of UnitedHealth Group common stock and $21.50 in cash for each share of PacifiCare common stock they owned. Total consideration issued for the transaction was approximately $8.8 billion,
composed of approximately 99.2 million shares of UnitedHealth Group common stock (valued at approximately $5.3 billion based upon the average of UnitedHealth Group s share closing price for two days before, the day of and two days after
the acquisition announcement date of July 6, 2005), approximately $2.1 billion in cash, $960 million cash paid to retire PacifiCare s existing debt and UnitedHealth Group vested common stock options with an estimated fair value of
approximately $420 million issued in exchange for PacifiCare s outstanding vested common stock options. The purchase price and costs associated with the acquisition exceeded the estimated fair value of the net tangible assets acquired by
approximately $7.0 billion. Based on management s consideration of fair value, which included completion of a valuation analysis, we have allocated the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired to
finite-lived intangible assets of $954 million and associated deferred tax liabilities of $377 million, and goodwill of approximately $6.4 billion. The finite-lived intangible assets and related weighted-average useful lives consist of the
following:       

($ in millions)    
      
   Fair Value   
      
   Weighted-Average     Useful Life    
 
    Customer Contracts and Membership Lists   
      
  $  
          744  
      
  12 years   
 
    Trademarks   

157  
      
  17 years   
 
    Physician and Hospital Networks   

53  
      
  15 years   

Total Acquired Finite-Lived Intangible Assets   
      
  $  
  954  
      
  13 years   

The acquired goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. Acquired net tangible assets and liabilities are
categorized as follows: cash and cash equivalents of $808 million; investments of $2.4 billion; accounts receivable and other current assets of $832 million; property, equipment and capitalized software and other assets of $454 million; medical
costs payable of $1.4 billion and other liabilities of $1.1 billion.      The results of operations and financial condition of PacifiCare have been included in
our Consolidated Financial Statements since its acquisition date. The unaudited pro forma financial information presented below assumes that the acquisition occurred as of the beginning of the period. The pro forma adjustments include the pro forma
effect of UnitedHealth Group shares issued in the acquisition, the amortization of finite-lived intangible assets arising from the purchase price allocations, interest expense related to financing the cash portion of the purchase  
       
   63   

price and the associated income tax effects of the pro forma adjustments. The following unaudited pro forma results have been prepared for comparative
purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred had the acquisition been consummated at the beginning of the period.       
    We record liabilities related to integration activities in connection with business combinations when integration
plans are finalized and approved by management within one year of the acquisition date in accordance with the requirements of EITF Issue No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination. 
Liabilities recorded relate to activities that have no future economic benefit to the Company and represent contractual obligations. These liabilities result in an increase to goodwill acquired. At each reporting date, we evaluate our liabilities
associated with integration activities and make adjustments as appropriate. Integration activities relate primarily to severance costs for certain workforce reductions largely in the Health Care Services segment, costs of terminated or vacated
leased facilities and other contract termination costs. The following table illustrates the changes in employee termination benefit costs and other integration costs related to the PacifiCare acquisition as of December 31, 2007:       
    For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, aggregate consideration paid, net of cash assumed and
other effects, for smaller acquisitions was $262 million, $276 million and $196 million, respectively. These acquisitions were not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   64   

5.   
   Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments         As of December 31, the
amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of cash, cash equivalents and investments, by type, were as follows:       
    At December 31, 2007, the fair value of debt securities had the following maturity dates:       
       
   65   

The following tables show the gross unrealized losses and fair value of investments with unrealized losses that, in our
judgment, are not other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31. These investments are aggregated by investment type and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position (1):      

(1)  
  Debt securities classified as held-to-maturity investments have been excluded from this analysis. These investments are predominantly held in U.S. Government or Agency obligations
and the contractual terms do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. Additionally, the fair values of these investments approximate their amortized cost.        The unrealized losses on investments in U.S. Government and Agency obligations, state and municipal obligations and corporate obligations at December 31, 2007 were
mainly caused by interest rate increases and not by unfavorable changes in the credit ratings associated with these securities. We evaluate impairment at each reporting period for each of the securities where the fair value of the investment is less
than its cost. The contractual cash flows of the U.S. Government and Agency obligations are either guaranteed by the U.S. Government or an agency of the U.S. Government. It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than
the cost of our investment. We evaluated the underlying credit quality of the issuers and the credit ratings of the state and municipal obligations and the corporate obligations, noting neither a significant deterioration since purchase nor other
factors leading to other-than-temporary impairment.      A portion of the Company s investments in equity securities consists of investments held by our
UnitedHealth Capital business in various public and nonpublic companies concentrated in the areas of health care delivery and related information technologies. Market conditions that affect the value of health care and related technology stocks will
likewise impact the value of our equity portfolio. The equity securities were evaluated for severity and duration of unrealized loss, overall market volatility and other market factors.      We analyze relevant factors individually and in combination including the length of time and extent to which market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer as well
as specific events or circumstances that may influence the operations of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient time to recover our cost. We revise impairment judgments when new information  
       
   66   

becomes known or when we do not anticipate holding the investment until recovery. If any of our investments experience a decline in fair value that is
determined to be other-than-temporary, based on analysis of relevant factors, we record a realized loss in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We do not consider the unrealized losses on each of the investments described above to be
other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2007.      We recorded realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as follows:       
    Included in the realized losses above are impairment charges of $6 million, $4 million and $8 million for 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.       

6.   
   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets         Changes in the carrying
amount of goodwill, by segment, during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:       
    The gross carrying value, accumulated amortization and net carrying value of other intangible assets as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:       
    Amortization expense relating to intangible assets was $192 million in 2007, $181 million in 2006 and $94 million
in 2005. Estimated full year amortization expense relating to intangible assets for each of the next five years is as follows: $185 million in 2008, $167 million in 2009, $158 million in 2010, $153 million in 2011, and $151 million in 2012.
        
   67   

7.   
   Medical Costs and Medical Costs Payable         Medical costs and medical
costs payable include estimates of our obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers but for which we have either not yet received or processed claims, and for liabilities for physician, hospital and
other medical cost disputes. We develop estimates for medical costs incurred but not reported using an actuarial process that is consistently applied, centrally controlled and automated. The actuarial models consider factors such as time from date
of service to claim receipt, claim backlogs, care professional contract rate changes, medical care consumption and other medical cost trends. We estimate liabilities for physician, hospital and other medical cost disputes based upon an analysis of
potential outcomes, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Each period, we re-examine previously established medical costs payable estimates based on actual claim submissions and other changes in facts and circumstances. As
the liability estimates recorded in prior periods become more exact, we adjust the amount of the estimates, and include the changes in estimates in medical costs in the period in which the change is identified. For example, in every reporting
period, our operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with previously reported periods.      The following table shows the components of the change in medical costs payable for the years ended December 31:       
       
   68   

8.   
   Commercial Paper and Debt         Commercial paper and debt consisted of
the following as of December 31:       

(1)  
  The carrying value of debt has been adjusted based upon the applicable interest rate swap fair values in accordance with the fair value hedge short-cut method of accounting
described below.         

(2)  
  Estimated based on third-party quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.        As of December 31, 2007, our outstanding commercial paper had interest rates ranging from 5.1% to 5.5%.      Maturities of
commercial paper and debt for the years ending December 31 are as follows: $1.9 billion in 2008, $1.4 billion in 2009, $750 million in 2010, $749 million in 2011, $448 million in 2012 and $5.8 billion thereafter.      In February 2008, we issued a total of $3.0 billion in senior unsecured debt, which included: $250 million of floating rate notes due February 2011, $550 million of 4.9%
fixed-rate notes due February 2013, $1.1 billion of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due February 2018 and $1.1 billion of 6.9% fixed-rate notes due February 2038. The floating-rate notes are benchmarked to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and had an
initial interest rate of 4.5%. On the same date, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to receive fixed rates and pay variable rates that are benchmarked to the LIBOR on the February 2013 and February 2018 notes with an aggregate notional
amount of approximately $1.7 billion.      In November 2007, we issued $500 million of zero coupon notes due November 2022. These zero coupon notes are
original issue discount notes with an aggregate principal amount due at maturity of approximately $1.1  
       
   69   

billion and an accretion yield of 5.3%. These notes have a put feature that allows a note holder to require us to repurchase the notes at the accreted value
at certain annual dates in the future, beginning on November 15, 2010.      In November 2007, we entered into a $1.5 billion 364-day revolving credit
facility in order to expand our access to liquidity. The credit facility supports our commercial paper program and is available for general working capital purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had no amounts outstanding under this bank credit
facility.      In November 2007, we issued a total of $1.6 billion in senior unsecured debt, which included: $250 million of 5.1% fixed-rate notes due November
2010, $450 million of 5.5% fixed-rate notes due November 2012, $250 million of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due November 2017 and $650 million of 6.6% fixed-rate notes due November 2037. These notes were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration
under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (1933 Act). In January 2008, we commenced an offer to allow purchasers of the notes to exchange each series of these notes for a new issue of substantially identical debt securities
registered under the 1933 Act. We expect to complete the exchange in February 2008.      In June 2007, we issued a total of $1.5 billion in senior unsecured
debt, which included: $500 million of floating-rate notes due June 2010, $500 million of 6.0% fixed-rate notes due June 2017 and $500 million of 6.5% fixed-rate notes due June 2037. The floating-rate notes due June 2010 are benchmarked to the LIBOR
and had an interest rate of 5.1% at December 31, 2007. These notes were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act. In January 2008, we commenced an offer to allow purchasers of the notes to
exchange each series of these notes for a new issue of substantially identical debt securities registered under the 1933 Act. We expect to complete the exchange in February 2008.      In May 2007, we amended and restated our $1.3 billion five-year revolving credit facility supporting our commercial paper program. We increased the credit facility to $2.6 billion and extended the maturity date to May
2012. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had no amounts outstanding under this credit facility.      On December 1, 2006, our Health Care Services
business segment acquired the Student Insurance Division (Student Resources) of The MEGA Life and Health Insurance Company through an asset purchase agreement. Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, we issued a 10-year, 5.4% promissory
note for approximately $95 million and paid approximately $1 million in cash in exchange for the net assets of Student Resources.      In October 2006, we
entered into a $7.5 billion 364-day revolving credit facility. Effective August 3, 2007, we elected to reduce the amount of this facility to $1.5 billion. This credit facility expired on October 15, 2007.      In March 2006, we issued a total of $3.0 billion in senior unsecured debt to refinance outstanding commercial paper. We issued $650 million of floating-rate notes due
March 2009, $750 million of 5.3% fixed-rate notes due March 2011, $750 million of 5.4% fixed-rate notes due March 2016 and $850 million of 5.8% fixed-rate notes due March 2036. The floating-rate notes due March 2009 are benchmarked to the LIBOR
and had an interest rate of 5.2% and 5.5% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      On February 24, 2006, our Health Care Services business
segment acquired John Deere Health Care, Inc. (JDHC). Under the terms of the purchase agreement, we paid approximately $515 million in cash, including transaction costs, in exchange for all of the outstanding equity of JDHC. We issued commercial
paper to finance the JDHC purchase price. JDHC has been renamed UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.      To more closely align interest
costs with floating interest rates received on our cash equivalent and investment balances, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert the majority of our interest rate exposure from fixed rates to variable rates. The interest
rate swap agreements have aggregate notional amounts of $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2007, with variable rates that are benchmarked to the LIBOR. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate asset, recorded at fair value, for all existing
interest rate swaps was approximately $151 million. These interest rate swap agreements qualify as fair value hedges and are accounted for using the short-cut method under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,  Accounting
for Derivative  
       
   70   

Instruments and Hedging Activities  (FAS 133), whereby the hedges are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, and the carrying value
of the long-term debt is adjusted for an offsetting amount representing changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk. Since these amounts completely offset, we have reported both the swap asset and the debt liability within debt in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets and there have been no net gains or losses recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. At December 31, 2007, the rates used to accrue interest expense on these agreements ranged from 4.1% to 6.1%.
     Our debt arrangements and credit facilities contain various covenants, the most restrictive of which require us to maintain a debt-to-total-capital ratio
(calculated as the sum of commercial paper and debt divided by the sum of commercial paper, debt and shareholders  equity) below 50%. We were in compliance with the requirements of all debt covenants as of December 31, 2007. On
August 28, 2006, we received a purported notice of default from persons claiming to hold our 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2036 alleging a violation of the indenture governing those debt securities. This followed our
announcement that we would delay filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 (See Note 13).      PacifiCare had
approximately $100 million par value of 3% convertible subordinated debentures (convertible notes) which were convertible into approximately 5.2 million shares of UnitedHealth Group s common stock and $102 million of cash as of
December 31, 2005. In December 2005, we initiated a consent solicitation to all of the holders of outstanding convertible notes pursuant to which we offered to compensate all holders who elected to convert their notes in accordance with
existing terms and consent to an amendment to a covenant in the indenture governing the convertible notes. The compensation consisted of the present value of interest through October 18, 2007, the earliest mandatory redemption date, plus a pro
rata share of $1 million. On January 31, 2006, approximately $91 million of the convertible notes were tendered pursuant to the offer, for which we issued 4.8 million shares of UnitedHealth Group common stock, valued at $282 million, and
cash of $93 million and amended the indenture governing these notes. During 2007, approximately $9 million of convertible notes were tendered for conversion, for which we issued 470,119 shares of UnitedHealth Group common stock, valued at
approximately $24 million, and cash of approximately $10 million. In September 2007, we notified the remaining holders of our intent to fully redeem all outstanding convertible notes on October 18, 2007, the earliest redemption date. As of
October 16, 2007, all convertible notes were tendered pursuant to this redemption notice.       

9.   
   Shareholders  Equity           Regulatory Capital and Dividend
Restrictions        We conduct a significant portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are subject to standards established by the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of statutory capital, as defined by each state, and restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other
distributions that may be paid to their parent companies. Generally, the amount of dividend distributions that may be paid by a regulated subsidiary, without prior approval by state regulatory authorities, is limited based on the entity s level
of statutory net income and statutory capital and surplus. At December 31, 2007, approximately $2.4 billion of our $22.3 billion of cash and investments was held by non-regulated subsidiaries and was available for general corporate use,
including acquisitions and common stock repurchases.      As of December 31, 2007, our regulated subsidiaries had aggregate statutory capital and surplus
of approximately $10.0 billion, which is significantly more than the aggregate minimum regulatory requirements.        Stock Repurchase Program   
     Under our Board of Directors  authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. Repurchases may be made from time to time at prevailing
prices, subject to certain restrictions on volume, pricing and timing. During 2007, we repurchased 125.3 million shares which were settled for cash on or before December 31, 2007  
       
   71   

at an average price of approximately $53 per share and an aggregate cost of approximately $6.6 billion. During 2006, we repurchased 40.2 million shares
which were settled for cash on or before December 31, 2006 at an average price of approximately $56 per share and an aggregate cost of approximately $2.2 billion. As of December 31, 2007, we had Board of Directors  authorization to
purchase up to an additional 171.9 million shares of our common stock.        Preferred Stock        At December 31, 2007, we had 10 million shares of $0.001 par value preferred stock authorized for issuance, and no preferred shares issued and outstanding.

10.   
   Share-Based Compensation and Other Employee Benefit Plans         We
adopted FAS 123R as of January 1, 2006. FAS 123R requires companies to measure compensation expense for all share-based payments (including employee stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock) at fair
value and recognize the expense over the related service period. We adopted FAS 123R using the modified retrospective transition method, under which all prior period financial statements were restated to recognize compensation cost as calculated
under FAS 123.      As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 70.6 million shares available for future grants of share-based awards under our
share-based compensation plan, including, but not limited to, incentive or non-qualified stock options, SARs, and up to 26.1 million of awards in restricted stock and restricted stock units. Our existing share-based awards consist mainly of
non-qualified stock options and SARs.        Stock Options and SARs        Stock options and SARs generally vest ratably over four to six years and may be exercised up to 10 years from the date of grant. Stock option and SAR activity for the year ending December 31, 2007 is summarized
in the table below:       
    As of December 31, 2007, outstanding stock options and SARs had an aggregate intrinsic value of $3.9 billion,
and a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 5.5 years. As of December 31, 2007, exercisable stock options and SARs had an aggregate intrinsic value of $3.5 billion, and a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 4.2 years.
     To determine compensation expense related to our stock options and SARs, the fair value of each award grant is estimated on the date of grant using an
option-pricing model. For purposes of estimating the fair value of our employee stock option and SAR grants, we utilize a binomial model. The principal assumptions we used in applying the option-pricing models were as follows:         
   72   

The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. Expected volatilities
are based on a blend of the implied volatilities from traded options on our common stock and the historical volatility of our common stock. We use historical data to estimate option and SAR exercises and employee terminations within the valuation
model. The expected term of options and SARs granted represents the period of time that the awards granted are expected to be outstanding based on historical exercise patterns.      The weighted-average fair value of stock options and SARs granted for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $14 per share, $11 per share and $14 per share, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options and SARs exercised
during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $1,076 million, $753 million and $847 million, respectively.        Restricted Shares        Restricted stock awards generally vest ratably over two to five years. Compensation expense related to restricted stock awards is determined based upon the fair value of
each award on the date of grant. Restricted stock award activity for the year ending December 31, 2007 is summarized in the table below:      
    The total fair value of restricted shares vested during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $35 million, $35 million and $5
million, respectively.        Share-Based Compensation Recognition        We recognize compensation cost for share-based awards, including stock options, SARs, restricted stock and restricted stock units, on a straight-line basis over the related service period (generally the vesting
period) of the award, or to an employee s eligible retirement date under the award agreement, if earlier. For 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recognized compensation expense related to our share-based compensation plans of $505 million ($325 million
net of tax effects), $404 million ($259 million net of tax effects) and $306 million ($194 million net of tax effects), respectively. Share-based compensation expense is recognized within Operating Costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Share compensation expense for 2006 included $31 million associated with the cash settlement of stock options expiring or forfeiting during the period. As of December 31, 2007, there was $529 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to share awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.4 years.      For 2007, 2006 and 2005, the income
tax benefit realized from share-based awards was $399 million, $287 million and $311 million, respectively.         
   73   

Included in the share-based compensation expense for 2007 is $176 million ($112 million net of tax benefit) of
expenses recorded in the first quarter of 2007 related to application of deferred compensation rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 409A) to our historical stock option practices. As part of our review of the
Company s historical stock option practices, we determined that certain stock options granted to individuals who were nonexecutive officer employees at the time of grant were granted with an exercise price that was lower than the closing price
of our common stock on the applicable accounting measurement date, subjecting these individuals to additional tax under Section 409A. The Company elected to pay these individuals for the additional tax costs relating to such stock options
exercised in 2006 and early 2007. For any outstanding stock options subject to additional tax under Section 409A that were granted to nonexecutive officer employees, the Company increased the exercise price and committed to make cash payments
to these optionholders for their vested options based on the difference between the original stock option exercise price and the revised increased stock option exercise price. The payments will be made on a quarterly basis upon vesting of the
applicable awards. The first payment, amounting to $110 million, was made to optionholders in January 2008 for options that had vested through December 31, 2007. Aggregate future payments will be $38 million, assuming all applicable options
vest during 2008 and 2009. If the modified stock options are subsequently exercised, the Company will recover these cash payments at that time from exercise proceeds at the revised increased stock option exercise prices.      The $176 million Section 409A charge includes $87 million of expense ($55 million net of tax benefit) for the payment of certain optionholders  tax obligations
for stock options exercised in 2006 and early 2007 and $89 million of expense ($57 million net of tax benefit) for the modification related to increasing the exercise price of unexercised stock options granted to nonexecutive officer employees and
the related cash payments. These amounts have been recorded as corporate expenses and have not been allocated to individual business segments.      In
December 2006, the Company entered into agreements with individuals who were executive officers of the Company at the time of grant of an applicable stock option to increase the exercise price of certain outstanding stock options. No
compensation was payable to any of those individuals as a result of the increase in the exercise price of their stock options.      As further discussed in
Note 9, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. The objectives of our share repurchase program are to optimize our capital structure, cost of capital and return to shareholders, as well as to offset the dilutive impact of shares issued for
share-based award exercises.        Other Employee Benefit Plans        Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan allows employees to purchase the Company s stock at a discounted price based on the lower of the price on the first day or the last day of the six-month purchase period. The
compensation expense is included in the compensation expense amounts recognized and discussed above. We also offer a 401(k) plan for all employees of the Company. Compensation expense related to this plan was not significant for the years 2007, 2006
and 2005.      We have provided Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan benefits (SERPs), which are non-qualified defined benefit plans, for our current CEO and
our former CEO, as well as for certain nonexecutive officers under a plan that was assumed in an acquisition. No additional amounts are accruing to the SERPs of our current CEO and former CEO. The SERPs are non-contributory, unfunded and provide
benefits based on years of service and compensation during employment. Pension expense is determined using various actuarial methods to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to executives, and is allocated to service periods. The actuarial
assumptions used to calculate pension costs are reviewed annually. Pension expense was not significant for the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. The total SERP liability was $139 million and $131 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
and is recorded within Other Long Term Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      In addition, the Company maintains non-qualified, unfunded deferred
compensation plans, which allow certain members of senior management and executives to defer portions of their salary or bonus and receive certain Company contributions on such deferrals, subject to plan limitations. The deferrals are recorded
within  
       
   74   

Long-Term Investments with an equal amount in Long-Term Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The total deferrals are distributable based
upon termination of employment or other periods, as elected under each plan and are $225 million and $212 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       
    The components of the provision for income taxes for
the years ended December 31 are as follows:       
    The reconciliation of the tax provision at the U.S. Federal Statutory Rate to the provision for income taxes for
the years ended December 31 is as follows:       
    As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as
follows:       
       
   75   

Valuation allowances are provided when it is considered more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be
realized. The valuation allowances primarily relate to future tax benefits on certain federal and state net operating loss carryforwards. Federal net operating loss carryforwards expire beginning in 2008 through 2027, and state net operating loss
carryforwards expire beginning in 2008 through 2027.      The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of
adopting FIN 48 for the first quarter of 2007 resulted in an increase to our liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $88 million, which included a reduction of $61 million in retained earnings and an increase of $26 million in goodwill. The total
amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption was $341 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    We classify interest and penalties associated with uncertain income tax positions as income taxes within our
Consolidated Financial Statements. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recognized approximately $28 million in interest expense. The Company had approximately $54 million of accrued interest at December 31, 2007, which is
reported in Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This amount is not included in the reconciliation above. No amount was accrued for penalties. As of December 31, 2007, the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was $131 million.      We currently file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction,
various states, and foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed exams on the consolidated income tax returns for fiscal years 2006 and prior. Our 2007 tax return is under advance review by the IRS under its
Compliance Assurance Program (CAP). With the exception of a few states, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations prior to 2002 in major state and foreign jurisdictions. We do not believe any adjustments that may result from these
examinations will be significant.      We believe it is reasonably possible that our liability for unrecognized tax benefits will decrease in the next twelve
months by $75 million or less as a result of audit settlements and the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain major jurisdictions.       
    We provide health insurance products and services to members
of AARP. These products and services are provided to supplement benefits covered under traditional Medicare (AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance), hospital indemnity insurance, health insurance focused on persons between 50 to 64 years of age, and
other products (Supplemental Health Insurance Program). Under the Supplemental Health Insurance Program, we are compensated for transaction processing and other services as well as for assuming underwriting risk. We are also engaged in product
development activities to complement the insurance offerings. Premium revenues from our portion of the AARP Supplemental Health Insurance Program were approximately $5.3 billion in 2007, $5.0 billion in 2006 and $4.9 billion in 2005.         
   76   

On October 3, 2007, we entered into four agreements with AARP that amended our existing AARP arrangements and
incorporated many of the terms of the April 13, 2007 AARP agreement. These agreements extended our arrangements with AARP on the Supplemental Health Insurance Program to December 31, 2017, extended our arrangement with AARP on the Medicare
Part D business to December 31, 2014, and gave us an exclusive right to use the AARP brand on our Medicare Advantage offerings until December 31, 2014, subject to certain limited exclusions.      The underwriting gains or losses related to the AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance business are directly recorded as an increase or decrease to a rate stabilization fund
(RSF). The primary components of the underwriting results are premium revenue, medical costs, investment income, administrative expenses, member service expenses, marketing expenses and premium taxes. Underwriting gains and losses are recorded as an
increase or decrease to the RSF and accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders, unless cumulative net losses were to exceed the balance in the RSF. To the extent underwriting losses exceed the balance in the RSF, we would have to fund
the deficit. Any deficit we fund could be recovered by underwriting gains in future periods of the contract. To date, we have not been required to fund any underwriting deficits. The RSF balance is reported in Other Policy Liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and changes in the RSF are reported in Medical Costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In January 2008, $127 million in cash was transferred out of the RSF to an external insurance entity that
was selected to offer the AARP branded age 50 to 64 comprehensive product that had been previously offered by the Company. We believe the RSF balance is sufficient to cover potential future underwriting and other risks and liabilities
associated with the contract.      The following AARP program-related assets and liabilities are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets:       
    The effects of changes in balance sheet amounts associated with the AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance program
accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF balance. Accordingly, we do not include the effect of such changes in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.         
   77   

Pursuant to our agreement, AARP assets under management are managed separately from our general investment portfolio and
are used to pay costs associated with the AARP program. These assets are invested at our discretion, within investment guidelines approved by the Supplemental Health Insurance Program. We do not guarantee any rates of investment return on these
investments and, upon transfer of this AARP agreement to another entity, we would transfer cash equal in amount to the fair value of these investments at the date of transfer to that entity. Interest earnings and realized investment gains and losses
on these assets accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF and, thus, are not included in our earnings. Interest income and realized gains and losses related to assets under management are recorded as an increase to the
AARP RSF and were $108 million, $94 million and $90 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Assets under management are reported at their fair market value, and unrealized gains and losses are included directly in the RSF associated with the
AARP program. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of cash, cash equivalents and investments associated with the AARP insurance program, included in Assets Under Management,
were as follows:       
    At December 31, 2007, the fair value of AARP assets under management had the following maturity dates:
      
    As of December 31, 2007, we had investments with an aggregate fair value of $151 million under the AARP
agreement in an unrealized loss position of $2 million for 12 months or greater. These investments are subject to the same processes and reviews as the rest of our investment portfolio, including impairment analyses. As a result of these reviews, as
is further discussed in Note 5, we did not identify any other-than-temporary impairments. Interest earnings and realized investment gains and losses on these assets accrue to the overall benefit of the AARP policyholders through the RSF and are,
therefore, not included in our earnings.      Under separate trademark license agreements with AARP, we sell AARP-branded Medicare Prescription Drug benefit
plans and Medicare Advantage plans. We pay AARP a license fee for the use of the trademark and member data and assume all operational and underwriting risks.         
   78   

13.   
   Commitments and Contingencies         We lease facilities, computer
hardware and other equipment under long-term operating leases that are noncancelable and expire on various dates through 2025. Rent expense under all operating leases was $223 million in 2007, $209 million in 2006 and $152 million in 2005. At
December 31, 2007, future minimum annual lease payments, net of sublease income, under all noncancelable operating leases were as follows: $173 million in 2008, $173 million in 2009, $144 million in 2010, $111 million in 2011, $93 million in
2012 and $345 million thereafter. In 2006, we signed a facility lease agreement, which is expected to commence in March 2009 with total estimated lease payments of $229 million over a 20-year period. These estimated lease payments are included in
our total future minimum annual lease payments above.      In conjunction with the PacifiCare acquisition we committed to make $50 million in charitable
contributions for the benefit of California health care consumers, which has been accrued in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We have committed to specific projects totaling approximately $18 million of the $50 million charitable commitment at
December 31, 2007, of which $6 million was paid. Additionally, we agreed to invest $200 million in California s health care infrastructure to further health care services to the underserved populations of the California marketplace, of
which $8 million was invested at December 31, 2007. The timing and amount of individual contributions and investments are at our discretion subject to the advice and oversight of the local regulatory authorities; however, our goal is to have
the investment commitment fully funded by the end of 2010. The investment commitment remains in place for 20 years after funding.      We have various
outstanding, undrawn letters of credit with financial institutions with an aggregate commitment of approximately $39 million at December 31, 2007.       Legal Matters         Legal Matters Relating to Historical Stock Option Practices         Regulatory Inquiries       In March 2006, we received an informal inquiry
from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to our historical stock option practices. On December 19, 2006, we received from the SEC staff a formal order of investigation into the Company s historical stock option practices.
     On May 17, 2006, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York requesting documents from 1999 to the date of
the subpoena relating to our historical stock option practices.      On May 17, 2006, we received a document request from the IRS seeking documents
relating to our historical stock option grants and other compensation for the persons who from 2003 to May 2006 were the named executive officers in our annual proxy statements. As previously disclosed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we
believed that compensation expense related to prior exercises of certain stock options by certain of the Company s executive officers would no longer qualify as deductible performance-based compensation in accordance with Internal Revenue Code
Section 162(m) as a result of the revision of measurement dates that occurred as part of our review of the Company s historical stock option matters. In December 2007, the Company reached an agreement with the IRS resolving
Section 162(m) issues in connection with tax years through 2005. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company paid $106 million in 2007 and will pay an additional $20 million in the first quarter of 2008.      On June 6, 2006, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Minnesota Attorney General requesting documents from January 1, 1997 to the date of the
response concerning our executive compensation and historical stock option practices. We filed an action in Ramsey County Court, State of Minnesota, captioned  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated vs. State of Minnesota, by Lori Swanson, Attorney
General , seeking a  
       
   79   

protective order, which was denied. We appealed the denial of the protective order to the Minnesota Court of Appeals. On December 4, 2007, the Minnesota
Court of Appeals acknowledged limitations on the Minnesota Attorney General s authority to issue a Civil Investigative Demand, but affirmed the denial of a protective order. On January 4, 2008, we filed a petition for review with the
Minnesota Supreme Court, which remains pending.      We have also received requests for documents from U.S. Congressional committees relating to our historical
stock option practices and compensation of executives. At the conclusion of these regulatory inquiries, we could be subject to regulatory or criminal fines or penalties as well as other sanctions or other contingent liabilities, which could be
material.       Litigation Matters       On March 29, 2006,
the first of several shareholder derivative actions was filed against certain of our current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. The action has been consolidated with six other actions
and is captioned  In re UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Shareholder Derivative Litigation . The consolidated amended complaint is brought on behalf of the Company by several pension funds and other shareholders and names certain of our current
and former officers and directors as defendants, as well as the Company as a nominal defendant. The consolidated amended complaint generally alleges that defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company, were unjustly enriched, and violated
the securities laws in connection with our historical stock option practices. The consolidated amended complaint seeks unspecified money damages, injunctive relief and rescission of certain options. On June 26, 2006, our Board of Directors
created a Special Litigation Committee under Minnesota Statute 302A.241, consisting of two former Minnesota Supreme Court Justices, with the power to investigate the claims raised in the derivative actions and shareholder demands, and determine
whether the Company s rights and remedies should be pursued.      A consolidated derivative action, reflecting a consolidation of two actions, is also
pending in Hennepin County District Court, State of Minnesota. The consolidated complaint is captioned  In re UnitedHealth Group Incorporated Derivative Litigation . The action was brought by two individual shareholders and names certain of our
current and former officers and directors as defendants, as well as the Company as a nominal defendant. On February 6, 2007, the state court judge entered an order staying the action pending resolution of the Special Litigation Committee
process. On June 25, 2007, the state court judge entered an order modifying the stay to allow plaintiffs counsel to access documents produced in the federal derivative action described above.      On December 6, 2007, the Special Litigation Committee concluded its review of claims relating to the Company s historical stock option practices and published
a report. The Special Litigation Committee reached settlement agreements on behalf of the Company with our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William W. McGuire, M.D., former General Counsel David J. Lubben, and former director William G.
Spears. In addition, the Special Litigation Committee concluded that all claims against all named defendants in the derivative actions, including current and former Company officers and directors, should be dismissed. Each settlement agreement is
conditioned upon final approval by the federal court and the state court after notice is provided to shareholders and dismissal of claims in the derivative actions. If either condition is not satisfied, then that individual s settlement
agreement will become null and void in its entirety and will have no force or effect. On January 2, 2008, the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota presented a certified question to the Minnesota Supreme Court concerning the scope
of a court s authority to review the settlement agreements under Minnesota law. In an order filed February 1, 2008, the Minnesota Supreme Court agreed to consider the issue.      In connection with the departure of Dr. McGuire, the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota issued an Order on November 29, 2006, preliminarily enjoining Dr. McGuire from exercising any
Company stock options and preliminarily enjoining the Company and Dr. McGuire from taking any action with respect to Dr. McGuire s employment agreement and related agreements. The original Order has been extended numerous times. On
December 26, 2007, the court extended the Order indefinitely pending the Minnesota Supreme Court s response to the certified question described above.         

   80   

On May 5, 2006, the first of seven putative class actions alleging a violation of the federal securities laws was
brought by an individual shareholder against certain of our current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. On December 8, 2006, a consolidated amended complaint was filed
consolidating the actions into a single action. The action is captioned  In re UnitedHealth Group Incorporated PSLRA Litigation . The action was brought by lead plaintiff California Public Employees Retirement System against the Company and
certain of our current and former officers and directors. The consolidated amended complaint alleges that defendants, in connection with the same alleged course of conduct identified in the shareholder derivative actions described above, made
misrepresentations and omissions during the period between January 20, 2005 and May 17, 2006, in press releases and public filings that artificially inflated the price of our common stock. The consolidated amended complaint also asserts
that during the class period, certain defendants sold shares of our common stock while in possession of material, non-public information concerning the matters set forth in the complaint. The consolidated amended complaint alleges claims under
Sections 10(b), 14(a), 20(a) and 20A of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and Sections 11 and 15 of the 1933 Act. The action seeks unspecified money damages and equitable relief. Defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint
on February 6, 2007. The motion to dismiss was denied in an order filed on June 4, 2007 and discovery is ongoing. On July 18, 2007, the lead plaintiff moved for partial summary judgment on the Company s liability on the
Section 11 claim. The court denied the motion for partial summary judgment on October 2, 2007. The parties are currently engaged in discovery and the case is currently scheduled to be ready for trial in July 2008. We are vigorously
defending against the action.      On June 6, 2006, a purported class action captioned  Zilhaver v. UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  was filed
against the Company and certain of our current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. On May 1, 2007, plaintiffs amended the complaint. This action alleges that the fiduciaries to
the Company-sponsored 401(k) plan violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) by allowing the plan to continue to hold company stock. Plaintiffs have filed a motion to certify a class consisting of certain
participants in the Company s 401(k) plan. Defendants moved to dismiss the action on June 22, 2007. A hearing on the motion to dismiss took place on January 8, 2008. The motion remains under consideration by the court. We are
vigorously defending against the action.      On August 28, 2006, we received a purported notice of default from persons claiming to hold our 5.8% Senior
Unsecured Notes due March 15, 2036 alleging a violation of the indenture governing those debt securities. This followed our announcement that we would delay filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. On
October 25, 2006, we filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, captioned  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated v. Cede   Co. and the Bank of New York , seeking a declaratory judgment that we are
not in default under the terms of the indenture. On or about November 2, 2006, we received a purported notice of acceleration from the same holders that purports to declare an acceleration of our 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 15,
2036 as a result of our not timely filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. Our indenture requires us to provide to the trustee copies of the reports we are required to file with the SEC, such as our
quarterly reports, within 15 days of filing such reports with the SEC. Should the Company ultimately be unsuccessful in this matter, we may be required to retire all or a portion of the $850 million of our 5.8% Senior Unsecured Notes due March 2036.
The parties have filed cross-motions for summary judgment, which remain pending before the court. We are vigorously prosecuting the declaratory judgment action.      In addition, we may be subject to additional litigation or other proceedings or actions arising out of the Company s historical stock option practices and the related restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements.
Litigation and any potential regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit or any potential regulatory proceeding or action could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.      In addition, other adjustments for non-operating cash
charges may be required in connection with the resolution of stock option-related matters arising under litigation and regulatory reviews by the SEC, IRS, U.S. Attorney, U.S. Congressional committees and Minnesota Attorney General, the amount and
timing of which are uncertain but which could be material.         
   81   

Other Legal Matters        Because of the nature of our businesses, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings. We record liabilities for our estimates of probable costs resulting from these
matters. These matters include, but are not limited to, claims relating to health care benefits coverage, medical malpractice actions, contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices.      Beginning in 1999, a series of class action lawsuits were filed against UnitedHealthcare, PacifiCare, and virtually all major entities in the health benefits business.
These lawsuits were consolidated in a multi-district litigation in the Southern District Court of Florida. The health care provider plaintiffs alleged statutory violations, including violations of the Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organization Act
(RICO) in connection with alleged undisclosed reimbursement policies. Other allegations included breach of state prompt payment laws and breach of contract claims for failure to timely reimburse health care providers for medical services rendered.
The consolidated suits seek injunctive, compensatory and equitable relief as well as restitution, costs, fees and interest payments. The trial court granted the health care providers  motion for class certification. The Eleventh Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the class action status of certain of the RICO claims, but reversed as to the breach of contract, unjust enrichment and prompt payment claims. Most of the co-defendents have settled. On January 31, 2006, the trial court
dismissed all claims against PacifiCare, and on June 19, 2006, the trial court dismissed all claims against UnitedHealthcare brought by the lead plaintiffs. On June 13, 2007, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed those decisions.
Included in the multidistrict litigation are tag-along lawsuits which contain claims against the Company similar to the claims dismissed in the lead case. The tag-along cases were stayed pending resolution of the lead case. That stay has not been
lifted, but it is anticipated that the trial court will now lift the stay and address the continuing viability of the tag-along claims. The plaintiffs in a number of the tag-along cases have sought to remand the cases to alternate forums. We have
opposed these efforts and have moved the court to apply its June 2006 summary judgment ruling, and its other applicable pretrial rulings, to those cases. On February 12, 2008, the court denied all pending motions without prejudice and set a briefing
schedule for future motions, including motions for summary judgment. We are vigorously defending against the remaining claims.      On March 15, 2000, the
American Medical Association (AMA) filed a lawsuit against the Company and affiliated entities, such as UnitedHealthcare, in state court in New York. We removed the case to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The
suit originally alleged causes of action based on ERISA, as well as breach of contract and the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, deceptive acts and practices, and trade libel in connection with the calculation of reasonable and
customary reimbursement rates for non-network health care providers by the Company s affiliates. On May 26, 2004, we filed a motion for partial summary judgment seeking the dismissal of certain claims and parties. On June 15, 2007,
the trial court granted part of our motion for summary judgment. The Court ruled that AMA does not have standing to pursue ERISA claims for benefits on behalf of their physician members. The Court also ruled that the subscriber plaintiffs (and
physician plaintiffs with valid assignments from subscribers) can only seek monetary damages under ERISA for those reimbursements that were actually appealed through the health plans  appeal processes. The Court found that such appeals are not
 futile,  as plaintiffs alleged. Finally, the Court found that the health care providers and plan participants have no standing to bring a claim where the provider waived its right to collect the balance from the subscriber. While these
decisions narrow the case, they do not resolve the non-ERISA claims or ERISA breach of fiduciary duty claims. On July 10, 2007, plaintiffs filed a fourth amended complaint adding RICO and antitrust claims and realleging several of their prior
ERISA and state law claims. On September 24, 2007, we moved to dismiss the RICO and antitrust claims in the fourth amended complaint. On January 11, 2008, the parties finalized briefing on the motion to dismiss and are awaiting the
court s ruling on the motion. We are vigorously defending against the remaining claims.      On February 13, 2008, the New York Attorney General
( NYAG ) announced that (1) his office is conducting an industry-wide investigation into health insurers  provider reimbursement practices; (2) his office has issued subpoenas to 16 health insurance companies in connection with such
investigation, including one of our subsidiaries; and (3) his office intends to file suit against UnitedHealth Group and four of our subsidiaries. On  
       
   82   

the same day, the NYAG served the Company with a notice of his office s intent to initiate litigation (the  Notice ) based on allegedly
fraudulent and deceptive practices in determining out-of-network reimbursements for health benefits in New York State. The Notice states that the NYAG will be pursuing restitution, injunctive relief, damages, and civil penalties. As described by the
NYAG, the threatened claims appear to be similar to those asserted by the plaintiffs in the AMA lawsuit described above. No lawsuit has been filed against the Company as of February 21, 2008.       Government Regulation       Our business is regulated at federal, state,
local and international levels. The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. State legislatures and
Congress continue to focus on health care issues as the subject of proposed legislation. Existing or future laws and rules could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and
administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions. Further, we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of
our products.      We have been and are currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and
special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Congressional
committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC and other governmental authorities. Such government actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of
licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. For example, in 2007, the California Department of Managed Health Care and the California Department of Insurance examined our PacifiCare health plans in California. The examinations
identified concerns that were largely administrative and provider related. The examination findings related to claims processing accuracy and timeliness, accurate and timely interest payments, timely implementation of provider contracts, timely,
accurate provider dispute resolution, and other related matters. The California Department of Managed Health Care has assessed a penalty of $3.5 million related to its findings. The California Department of Insurance, however, has not yet levied a
financial penalty related to its findings. While there is a theoretical maximum penalty that could be substantial, we believe the California Department of Insurance Commissioner will take into consideration the fact that the vast majority of the
violations were administrative in nature and did not result in harm to our members. We are working closely with both departments to resolve any outstanding issues arising from the findings of the examinations of our PacifiCare health plans in
California.      We also are subject to a formal investigation of our historical stock option practices by the SEC, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of
New York, and Minnesota Attorney General, and we have received requests for documents from U.S. Congressional committees, as previously described. We generally have cooperated and will continue to cooperate with the regulatory authorities. At the
conclusion of these regulatory inquiries, we could be subject to regulatory or criminal fines or penalties as well as other sanctions or other contingent liabilities, which could be material.       

14.   
   Segment Financial Information         During the fourth quarter of 2007,
we completed the transition to our new segment reporting structure which reflects how our chief operating decision maker now manages our business. Our new reporting structure has four reporting segments:       

Health Care Services, which now includes our Commercial Markets (UnitedHealthcare and Uniprise), Ovations and AmeriChoice businesses;      

OptumHealth;          

Ingenix; and          

Prescription Solutions (formerly included in the Ovations business).          
  
   83   

Historical financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was revised to reflect our new
segment operating and financial reporting structure.      Factors used in determining our reporting segments include the nature of operating activities,
economic characteristics, existence of separate senior management teams and the type of information presented to the Company s chief operating decision-maker to evaluate our results of operations.      Our accounting policies for business segment operations are the same as those described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (See Note 2). Transactions
between business segments principally consist of customer service and transaction processing services that Health Care Services provides to OptumHealth, certain product offerings sold to Health Care Services customers by OptumHealth, sales of
pharmacy benefit products and services to Health Care Services by Prescription Solutions and sales of medical benefits cost, quality and utilization data and predictive modeling to Health Care Services by Ingenix. These transactions are recorded at
management s estimate of fair value. All intersegment transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Assets and liabilities that are jointly used are assigned to each segment using estimates of pro-rata usage. Cash and investments are assigned
such that each segment has at least minimum specified levels of regulatory capital or working capital for non-regulated businesses.      Substantially all of
our operations are conducted in the United States. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, segments with similar economic characteristics may be combined. The financial results of Commercial Markets,
Ovations and AmeriChoice have been aggregated in the Health Care Services segment column in the following tables because these businesses have similar economic characteristics and have similar products and services, types of customers, distribution
methods and operational processes, and operate in a similar regulatory environment. These businesses also share significant common assets, including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities,
information technology infrastructure and other resources.         
   84   

The following table presents segment financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005:       

(1)  
  The corporate amount reflects the Section 409A charge recorded in the first quarter of 2007 as discussed in Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)  
  The corporate balances consist of income tax-related assets.           
   85   

15.   
   Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)         The following tables present
selected quarterly financial information for all quarters of 2007 and 2006.       
       
   86   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 21, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.      /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE
LLP          Minneapolis, MN      February 21, 2008         
   87   

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         None       

ITEM 9A.       
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES           Evaluation of Disclosure Controls
and Procedures        The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms; and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.      In connection with the filing of this Form 10-K, management evaluated, under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007. Based upon that evaluation,
the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2007.        Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting        There
have been no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control
over financial reporting.         
   88   

Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2007  
     The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated
financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this
assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework . Based on our assessment and those criteria, we believe that, as of
December 31, 2007, the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting.      The Company s independent registered public
accounting firm has audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as stated in the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, appearing under Item 9A, which expresses an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007.       

/S/    STEPHEN J.
HEMSLEY            
 
   Stephen J. Hemsley    
 
     President and Chief Executive Officer         
 
    /S/    GEORGE L. MIKAN
III            
 
   George L. Mikan III    
 
     Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer         
 
    /S/    ERIC S.
RANGEN            
 
   Eric S. Rangen    
 
     Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer         
 
    February 21, 2008    
      New York Stock Exchange Certification        Pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the NYSE listed company manual, the Company submitted an unqualified certification of its Chief Executive Officer to the NYSE in 2007. We have also filed, as exhibits to this
Form 10-K, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Certifications required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.         
   89   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries:      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and
for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2007. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are
subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007 of the Company and our report dated February 21, 2008 expressed an unqualified
opinion on those consolidated financial statements.      /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP          Minneapolis, MN      February 21, 2008         
   90   

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Effective as of February 19, 2008, Stephen J.
Hemsley voluntarily increased the exercise prices of certain of his outstanding options, consistent with his intentions previously disclosed in the Report of the Special Litigation Committee dated December 6, 2007.      On February 19, 2008, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee (Compensation Committee) recommended and the Board approved the 2008 Executive Incentive Plan (EIP).
The EIP, which includes annual and long-term cash components, is intended to reward and encourage significant contributions to the success of our businesses. The EIP provides, subject to shareholder approval, for an annual cash bonus pool of 2% of
net income and a long-term cash bonus pool of 2% of net income. The Compensation Committee has established multiple performance criteria for 2008 annual and 2008-2010 long-term cash bonus targets under the EIP. The performance criteria established
were as follows:       

annual cash bonuses will be based on growth and innovation; operating income and cash flow; and stewardship (each weighted equally); and

long-term bonuses under the EIP will be based on earnings per share and return on equity (each weighted equally).         Any participant s annual or long-term cash bonus award under the EIP will be dependent upon the satisfaction of the performance criteria established by the
Compensation Committee, with the actual bonus awards depending on the participant s actual level of performance and a target percentage of base salary that varies by executive with a maximum target percentage of 250% of base salary. The
participants in the EIP are: the President and Chief Executive Officer; the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; the Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer; the Executive Vice President, Human Capital; the Senior Vice
President and Chief Accounting Officer; the President, Enterprise Services Group; the President, Public   Senior Markets Group; and the President, Commercial Markets Group.       PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         Pursuant to
General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, information regarding our executive officers is provided in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption  Executive
Officers of the Registrant.       The remaining information required by Items 401, 405, 406 and 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K will be
included under the headings  Corporate Governance,   Election of Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held June 5, 2008, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         The information required by Items 402,
407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Executive Compensation  and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in our definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held June 5, 2008, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS         The information required by Items 201(d) and 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Equity Compensation Plan Information  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and

91   

Management  in our definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 5, 2008, and such required information is
incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the headings  Certain Relationships and Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  in our definitive proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 5, 2008, and such required information is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         The information required by
Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A will be included under the heading  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 5, 2008, and such required
information is incorporated herein by reference.         
   92   

PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES          

(a)  
  1 . Financial Statements       

The financial statements are included under Item 8 of this report:   

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

2 . Financial Statement Schedules        None      3.  Exhibits **       

3.1  
      
  Third Restated Articles of Incorporation of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29, 2007)

3.2  
      
  Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29,
2007)   

4.1  
      
  Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between United HealthCare Corporation and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Registration
Statement on Form S-3/A, filed on January 11, 1999)   

4.2  
      
  Amendment, dated as of November 6, 2000, to Senior Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1998, between the UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001)   

4.3  
      
  Instrument of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance of Trustee, dated January 8, 2007, pursuant to the Senior Indenture, dated November 15, 1988, amended November 6, 2000, among UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated, The Bank of New York and Wilmington Trust Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

4.4  
      
  Indenture, dated as of February 4, 2008, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Registration
Statement on Form S-3, SEC file number 333-149031, filed on February 4, 2008)   

*10.1  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated Effective May 15, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002)   

*10.2  
      
  Form of Agreement for Initial Stock Option Award to Non-Employee Directors under the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended on April 17, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007)   
       
   93   

94   

*10.19  
      
  Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, effective April 1, 2004, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004)   

*10.20  
      
  Amendment to Agreement for Supplemental Executive Retirement Pay, dated as of November 7, 2006, between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 7, 2006)   

*10.21  
      
  Letter Agreement, dated as of November 6, 2006, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(q) of the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)   

*10.22  
      
  Letter Agreement, effective as of February 19, 2008, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and Stephen J. Hemsley   

*10.23  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of November 7, 2006, by and between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and George L. Mikan III (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 2007)   

*10.24  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of April 10, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and William A. Munsell   

*10.25  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2006, by and between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Eric S. Rangen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 15, 2006)   

*10.26  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of May 28, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Thomas L. Strickland (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

*10.27  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of June 29, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lori Sweere (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

*10.28  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of April 12, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Anthony Welters   

*10.29  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of December 1, 2006, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David S. Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007)   

*10.30  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective December 1, 2006, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Richard H. Anderson (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007)   

*10.31  
      
  Noncompete and Transition Agreement, effective as of September 15, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Richard H. Anderson   

*10.32  
      
  Noncompete and Transition Agreement, effective as of September 15, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lois Quam   

*10.33  
      
  Agreement, dated December 5, 2007, by and between David J. Lubben and UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group
Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 6, 2007)   

*10.34  
      
  Agreement, dated December 5, 2007, by and between William W. McGuire, M.D. and UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 6, 2007)   
       
   95   

*10.35  
      
  Form of Letter Agreement, dated as of November 6, 2006, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and each of William A. Munsell, Anthony Welters and David S. Wichmann (the agreements
executed by the above-named individuals are on terms substantially in the form of Letter Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(jj) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)   

*10.36  
      
  Form of Letter Agreement, effective as of December 22, 2006, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and each of Stephen J. Hemsley and David S. Wichmann (the agreements executed by the
above-named individuals are on terms substantially in the Form of Letter Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(kk) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)   

11.1  
      
  Statement regarding computation of per share earnings (incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading  Net Earnings Per Common Share  in Note 2 to the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8)   

12.1  
      
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

21.1  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company   

23.1  
      
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

24.1  
      
  Power of Attorney   

31.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

32.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

*  
  Denotes management contracts and compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to
Item 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.         

**  
  Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of instruments defining the rights of certain holders of long-term debt are not filed. The Company will furnish copies
thereof to the SEC upon request.           
   96   

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.      Dated: February 21, 2008        

UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED    

By   
     
    /S/    STEPHEN J.
HEMSLEY            

Stephen J. Hemsley       President and Chief Executive Officer     
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/S/    STEPHEN J.
HEMSLEY              Stephen J. Hemsley    
      
    Director, President and     Chief Executive Officer     (principal executive officer)   
     
  February 21, 2008   

/S/    GEORGE L. MIKAN
III              George L. Mikan III    
      
    Executive Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer     (principal financial officer)   
     
  February 21, 2008   

/S/    ERIC S. RANGEN          
   Eric S. Rangen    
      
    Senior Vice President and     Chief Accounting Officer     (principal accounting officer)   
     
  February 21, 2008   

*      William C. Ballard, Jr.    
      
  Director  
     
  February 21, 2008   

*      Richard T. Burke    
      
  Director  
     
  February 21, 2008   

*      Robert J. Darretta    
      
  Director  
     
  February 21, 2008   

*      Michele J. Hooper    
      
  Director  
     
  February 21, 2008   

*      James A. Johnson    
      
  Director  
     
  February 21, 2008   

*      Thomas H. Kean    
      
  Director  
     
  February 21, 2008   
       
   97   

*By   
     
    /S/    CHRISTOPHER J. WALSH    

As Attorney-in-Fact   
       
   98   

EXHIBIT INDEX        
       
   99   

100   

*10.27  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of June 29, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lori Sweere (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

*10.28  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of April 12, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Anthony Welters   

*10.29  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective as of December 1, 2006, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and David S. Wichmann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007)   

*10.30  
      
  Employment Agreement, effective December 1, 2006, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Richard H. Anderson (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007)   

*10.31  
      
  Noncompete and Transition Agreement, effective as of September 15, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Richard H. Anderson   

*10.32  
      
  Noncompete and Transition Agreement, effective as of September 15, 2007, between United HealthCare Services, Inc. and Lois Quam   

*10.33  
      
  Agreement, dated December 5, 2007, by and between David J. Lubben and UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group
Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 6, 2007)   

*10.34  
      
  Agreement, dated December 5, 2007, by and between William W. McGuire, M.D. and UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 6, 2007)   

*10.35  
      
  Form of Letter Agreement, dated as of November 6, 2006, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and each of William A. Munsell, Anthony Welters and David S. Wichmann (the agreements
executed by the above-named individuals are on terms substantially in the form of Letter Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(jj) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)   

*10.36  
      
  Form of Letter Agreement, effective as of December 22, 2006, by and between UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and each of Stephen J. Hemsley and David S. Wichmann (the agreements executed by the
above-named individuals are on terms substantially in the Form of Letter Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(kk) of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)   

11.1  
      
  Statement regarding computation of per share earnings (incorporated by reference to the information contained under the heading  Net Earnings Per Common Share  in Note 2to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8)   

12.1  
      
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

21.1  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company   

23.1  
      
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

24.1  
      
  Power of Attorney   

31.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

32.1  
      
  Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

*  
  Denotes management contracts and compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to
Item 601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.         

**  
  Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of instruments defining the rights of certain holders of long-term debt are not filed. The Company will furnish copies
thereof to the SEC upon request.           
   101   

<EX-10.13>
 2
 dex1013.htm
 SECOND AMENDMENT TO EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN

Second Amendment to Executive Savings Plan 

Exhibit 10.13        SECOND AMENDMENT        OF        UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN        (2004 Statement)       WHEREAS,
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, a Minnesota corporation ( UnitedHealth Group ), has heretofore established and maintains several nonqualified, deferred compensation programs (the  ESP ) for the benefit of a select group of
management or highly compensated employees of UnitedHealth Group and certain affiliates of UnitedHealth Group;      WHEREAS, Said programs are
currently embodied in a single document which is effective January 1, 2004, and which is entitled  UNITEDHEALTH GROUP EXECUTIVE SAVINGS PLAN (2004 Statement)  as amended by a First Amendment adopted on October 31, 2006
(hereinafter referred to as the  Plan Statement  and      WHEREAS, The Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group has delegated to
the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors the power and authority to amend the Plan Statement; and      WHEREAS,
UnitedHealth Group wishes to amend the Plan Statement to provide for the following: (i) to reflect that the Executive Vice President, Human Capital has been delegated all authority and responsibilities previously assigned to the Senior Vice
President, Human Capital under the Plan Statement, (ii) to bring the ESP into compliance with requirements of the final regulations under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code that were issued earlier this year, and (iii) to make other
clarifying or administrative changes.      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the Plan Statement is hereby amended in the following respects:
      1. DEFINITION OF AFFILIATE. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, the definition of  Affiliate  in
Section 1.2.2 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       1.2.2.  Affiliate    a business entity
which is not an Employer but which is part of a  controlled group  with the Employer or under  common control  with an Employer, as those terms are defined in section 414(b) and (c) of the Code (applying an eighty percent
(80%) common ownership standard). A business entity which is a predecessor to an Employer shall be treated as an Affiliate if the Employer maintains a plan of such predecessor business entity or if, and to the extent that, such treatment is
otherwise required by regulations under section 414(a) of the Code. A business entity shall also be treated as an Affiliate if, and to the extent that, such treatment is required by regulations under section 414(o) of the Code. In addition to said
required treatment, the Executive Vice President, Human Capital may, in his or her discretion, designate as an Affiliate any business entity which is not such a  controlled group,   common control  or  predecessor 
business entity but which is otherwise affiliated with an Employer, subject to such limitations as the Executive Vice President, Human Capital may impose.   

2. DISABILITY-COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008,
the definition of  Disability  in Section 1.2.8 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       1.2.8.  Disability    a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which: (i) renders the individual incapable of performing any substantial gainful activity, (ii) can be expected to result in death or can be
expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, and (iii) is evidenced by a certification to this effect by a doctor of medicine approved by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital. In lieu of such a certification, the
Executive Vice President, Human Capital may accept, as proof of Disability, the official written determination that the individual will be eligible for disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act as now enacted or hereinafter amended
(when any waiting period expires). Alternatively, a Participant will be considered disabled if the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of at least 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of at least 3 months under the Employer s disability plan. The Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall determine the date on which the
Disability shall have occurred if such determination is necessary.       3. DEFINITION OF EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, HUMAN CAPITAL. Effective July 31,
2007, Section 1.2 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding the following new Section 1.2.13 and all subsequent sections (and cross references thereto) shall be renumbered accordingly:       1.2.13.  Executive Vice President, Human Capital    the Executive Vice President, Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group, and his or her
successors.       4. CONFORMING CHANGES. Effective July 31, 2007, the Plan Statement shall be amended by replacing all references to the  Senior
Vice President, Human Capital  with the  Executive Vice President, Human Capital .        5. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT-COMPLIANCE WITH CODE
SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, the definition of  Termination of Employment  in Section 1.2.21 of the Plan Statement shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following new definition of  Separation from Service :       1.2.21.  Separation from Service    a severance of an
employee s employment relationship with the Employers and all Affiliates for any reason other than the employee s death.       

(a)  
     Facts and Circumstances and 20% Rule . Whether a Separation from Service has occurred is determined based on whether the facts and circumstances indicate that
the Employer and employee reasonably anticipated that no further services would be performed after a certain date  
          
   2   

or that the level of bona fide services the employee would perform after such date (whether as an employee or as an independent contractor) would permanently
decrease to no more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of bona fide services performed (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period (or the full period of
services to the Employer if the employee has been providing services to the Employer less than thirty-six (36) months).          

(b)  
   Transfers . A transfer from employment with an Employer to employment with an Affiliate of an Employer shall not constitute a Separation from Service. A decision by the
Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, by the Board of Directors) to not select a Participant for continued participation for a subsequent Plan Year shall not constitute a Separation from Service.

(c)  
   Leaves of Absence . A Separation from Service shall not be deemed to occur while the employee is on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence if the
period does not exceed six (6) months or, if longer, so long as the employee retains a right to reemployment with the Employer or an Affiliate under an applicable statute or by contract. For this purpose, a leave is bona fide only if, and so
long as, there is a reasonable expectation that the employee will return to perform services for the Employer or an Affiliate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a twenty-nine (29) month period of absence will be substituted for such six
(6) month period if the leave is due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of no less than six (6) months and that causes the
employee to be unable to perform the duties of his or her position of employment.         

(d)  
   Sale of Assets . If, as part of a sale or other disposition of assets by the Employer to a buyer that is not an Affiliate, an employee who was providing services to the
Employer immediately before the transaction and is providing services to the buyer immediately after the transaction would otherwise experience a Separation from Service from the Employer as a result of the transaction, the Employer and the buyer
shall have the discretion to specify that the affected employee has not experienced a Separation from Service if (i) the transaction results from bona fide, arm s length negotiations, (ii) all affected employees are treated
consistently, and (iii) such treatment is specified in writing no later than the closing date of the transaction.         6. REMOVAL OF
DEFINITION OF SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, HUMAN CAPITAL. Effective July 31, 2007, the definition of  Senior Vice President, Human Capital  in Section 1.2 of the Plan Statement shall be deleted in its entirety and all subsequent
sections (and cross references thereto) shall be renumbered accordingly.          
   3   

7. DEFINITION OF SPECIFIED EMPLOYEE. Effective for all Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008,
Section 1.2 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding thereto the following new definition of  Specified Employee  and all subsequent sections (and cross references thereto) shall be renumbered accordingly:       1.2.22.  Specified Employee    an employee who, as of the date of the employee s Separation from Service, is a key employee of the Employer
or an Affiliate and the stock of any Employer or an Affiliate is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise.       

(a)  
   In General . For purposes of determining Specified Employees, a key employee means each Participant (whether or not then an employee) who at any time during the 12-month
period ending on the specified employee identification date (as defined below) is:         

(i)  
  an officer of any aggregated employer (excluding persons who have the title of an officer but not the authority and including persons who have the authority of an officer but not
the title) having an annual compensation from all aggregated employers for such Plan Year in excess of one hundred thirty thousand dollars ($130,000) for such Plan Year (adjusted as provided in section 416(i)(1)(A) of the Code), or

(ii)  
  a five percent owner, or         

(iii)  
  a one percent owner having an annual compensation from the aggregated employers of more than One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000);        provided, however, that no more than fifty (50) employees (or, if lesser, the greater of three of all the aggregated employers  employees or ten
percent of all the aggregated employers  employees) shall be treated as officers. For the purposes of determining ownership percentages, each corporation, partnership and proprietorship otherwise required to be aggregated shall be viewed as a
separate entity.       

(b)  
   Annual Compensation . For purposes of determining Specified Employees, annual compensation shall mean, with respect to any Plan Year, the definition of section 415
compensation under the UnitedHealth Group 401(k) Savings Plan, but such definition of compensation shall not be limited to the annual compensation under section 401(a)(17) of the Code and shall not include compensation paid after the employee s
severance from employment.         

(c)  
   Specified Employee Identification Date . For purposes of determined Specified Employees, the specified employee identification date shall be each December 31st.
          
   4   

(d)  
   Specified Employee Effective Date . If a Participant is a key employee as of a specified employee identification date, that Participant shall be treated as a Specified
Employee for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the specified employee identification date and ending on the following March 31.         

(e)  
   Mergers and Acquisitions of Public Companies . If, as a result of a corporate transaction, the Employer or an Affiliate (the  buyer ) acquires another company which
has stock outstanding that is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise immediately before the transaction, then for the period between the date of the corporate transaction and the next specified employee effective date, the
list of Specified Employees of the resulting public company is determined by combining the lists of specified employees of the buyer and the acquired public company that were in effect as of the date of the corporate transaction. The combined list
shall be determined by ranking the specified employees in the order of the amount of compensation used to determine each employee s status as a specified employee, and treating the top fifty (50) of such specified employees, plus any
employees described in (a)(ii) and (a)(iii) above (five percent and one percent owners) who are not included in such top fifty (50) specified employees, as Specified Employees for the period between the date of the corporate transaction and the
next specified employee effective date (as defined in (d) above).         

(f)  
   Mergers and Acquisitions of Nonpublic Companies . If, as a result of a corporate transaction, the Employer or an Affiliate (the  buyer ) acquires another company
that does not have outstanding stock that is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise immediately before the transaction, then for the period after the date of the corporate transaction and the next specified employee
effective date, the specified list of the buyer immediately before the corporate transaction shall continue to be the specified employees of the resulting public company and no employees of the acquired company shall be required to be treated as
Specified Employees.         8. SPECIAL ELIGIBILITY RULE FOR FORMER PARTICIPANTS. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1,
2008, Section 2 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding thereto the following new Section 2.3:       2.3.  Special Rule For Former
Participants . If a Participant terminates employment with the Employer and all Affiliates and such Participant:       

(a)  
  has been paid all amounts deferred under the Plan (and all other account balance deferred compensation plans of the Employer and all Affiliates),         

(b)  
  is subsequently reemployed by the Employer in an Eligible Grade Level, and           
   5   

(c)  
  is selected for participation in this Plan by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, by the Board of Directors),     
  the Executive Vice President, Human Capital (or, for a Section 16 Officer, the Board of Directors) may designate that such employee will be allowed to reenter
the Plan as a Participant as of a fixed prospective date that is other than the first day of a Plan Year so long as that prospective date is within thirty (30) days of selection. In such a case, the references to Plan Year shall, as the context
requires, refer to the initial short Plan Year and the reference to first day of the Plan Year shall, as the context requires, refer to the first day of that short Plan Year.       9. SEPARATE DEFERRAL ELECTION FOR 401(k) RESTORATION OPTION REQUIRED. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 3.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as
follows:       3.1.  Automatic Enrollment . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Executive Vice
President, Human Capital, a Participant may elect to defer between 0% and 10% (50% for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008) of the Participant s eligible pay (as defined under the UnitedHealth Group 401(k) Savings Plan (the
 401(k) Plan )) once such Participant reaches an IRS or Plan Limit under the 401(k) Plan (the  401(k) Restoration Option ). A Participant who does not make an election shall be deemed to have elected a deferral percentage of zero
percent (0%) under the 401(k) Restoration Option. Any deferrals under the 401(k) Restoration Option shall begin as soon as administratively practicable after an IRS or Plan Limit first applies and shall continue until the following December 31.
For purposes of this Section 3.1, an IRS or Plan Limit means (a) the annual compensation limit under section 401(a)(17) of the Code (which is $225,000 for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2007) or any comparable successor
provision, or (b) the annual deferral limit under section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code (which is $15,500 for 2007) or any comparable successor provision, or (c) any other limit imposed by the Code or by any provision of the      401(k) Plan.      An election accepted by the Executive Vice
President, Human Capital shall become irrevocable when the Plan Year with respect to which it is made has commenced; provided, however, that in the event of an in-service distribution for an unforeseeable emergency (pursuant to
Section 9.8.2(b)) or hardship distribution under section 401(k)-1(d)(3) of the Code, a Participant s deferral election shall be cancelled and further deferrals shall not be made. An election made by a Participant for a Plan Year shall
remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the election is changed or terminated by the Participant or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year.       10. ELIMINATION OF ELECTION OUT OF 401(k) RESTORATION OPTION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, Section 3.3 of the Plan
Statement shall be deleted in its entirety and all subsequent sections (and cross references thereto) shall be renumbered accordingly.          
   6   

11. INCENTIVE DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or
after January 1, 2008, Section 4.1.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding the following sentence before the last sentence of Section 4.1.1:       An election accepted by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall become irrevocable when the Plan Year with respect to which it is made has commenced; provided, however, that in the event of an in-service
distribution for an unforeseeable emergency (pursuant to Section 9.8.2(b)) or hardship distribution under section 401(k)-1(d)(3) of the Code, a Participant s deferral election shall be cancelled and further deferrals shall not be
made.       12. SALARY DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008,
Section 4.2.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding the following sentence before the last sentence of Section 4.2.1:       An election
accepted by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall become irrevocable when the Plan Year with respect to which it is made has commenced; provided, however, that in the event of an in-service distribution for an unforeseeable emergency
(pursuant to Section 9.8.2(b)) or hardship distribution under section 401(k)-1(d)(3) of the Code, a Participant s deferral election shall be cancelled and further deferrals shall not be made.       13. PERFORMANCE AWARD DEFERRAL ELECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008,
Section 4.3.1 of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding the following sentence before the last sentence of Section 4.3.1:       An election
accepted by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall become irrevocable effective as the date that is six (6) months before the end of the performance period applicable to such Performance Award; provided, however, that in the event of
an in-service distribution for an unforeseeable emergency (pursuant to Section 9.8.2(b)) or hardship distribution under section 401(k)-1(d)(3) of the Code, a Participant s deferral election shall be cancelled and further deferrals
shall not be made.       14. OPERATIONAL RULES. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 6 of the Plan Statement
shall be amended to read in full as follows:        SECTION 6        OPERATIONAL RULES       6.1.  Operational Rules for Deferrals . A Participant s election
to participate in the 401(k) Restoration Option under Section 3.3 or election to defer compensation under Section 4 shall be  evergreen  and shall remain in effect for subsequent Plan Years unless, prior to such Plan Year, the
election is changed or terminated or the Participant is not selected for participation for that subsequent Plan Year. If a Participant s pay after deferrals is not sufficient to cover pre-tax and after-tax benefit payroll deductions, and tax or
other payroll withholding requirements, the Participant s deferrals shall be reduced to the extent necessary to meet such requirements.         
   7   

6.2.  Establishment of Accounts . There shall be established for each Participant an unfunded, bookkeeping Account.
     6.3.  Adjustment of Accounts . The Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall cause the value of each Account to be increased (or decreased) from
time to time for additions distributions, investment gains (or losses) and expenses charged to the Account.      6.4.  Accounting Rules . The Executive
Vice President, Human Capital may adopt (and revise) accounting rules for adjustment of the Accounts.       15. CODE SECTION 162(m) DELAY. Effective for Plan
Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 9.1.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       9.1.3.  Code   162(m) Delay . Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment will be delayed if the Employer reasonably anticipates that the Employer s federal income tax deduction with respect to such payment otherwise would be
limited or eliminated by application of section 162(m) of the Code. The payment shall thereafter be made at the earliest date at which the Employer reasonably determines that the deduction of the payment of the amount will not be limited or
eliminated by application of section 162(m) of the Code.       16. FORM OF DISTRIBUTION. Effective for distributions made on or after January 1, 2008,
Section 9.2 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       9.2.  Form of Distribution . Distribution of the
Participant s Account shall be made in whichever of the following forms as the Participant shall have designated at the time of his or her enrollment (as described in Section 9.3):       

(a)  
   Lump Sum . In the form of a single lump sum. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan
Year in which the Participant experienced a Separation from Service or Disability and shall be actually paid to the Participant as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan
Year). If, however, the Participant is a Specified Employee, distribution shall be made no earlier than six (6) months following the last day of the month in which the Participant experienced a Separation from Service (or upon the death of the
employee, if earlier).         

(b)  
   Installments . In the form of a series of five (5) or ten (10) annual installments. If a Participant elects to receive payments in the form of installments, then
pursuant to section 409A of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder (and for purposes of the re-election provisions in Section 9.4.3), the series of installment payments shall be treated as the entitlement to a single payment
(rather than a series of separate payments).           
   8   

(i)  
   General Rule . The amount of the first installment will be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which Participant
experienced a Separation from Service or Disability and shall be actually paid to the Participant as soon as practicable after such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year). If, however, the
Participant is a Specified Employee, distribution shall commence no earlier than six (6) months following the last day of the month in which the Participant experienced a Separation from Service (or upon the death of the employee, if earlier).
       The amount of future installments will be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the end of each later
Plan Year. The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the Account balance as of the Valuation Date as of which the installment is being paid, by the number of remaining installment payments to be made (including the payment being
determined). Such installments shall be actually paid as soon as practicable after each such determination (but not later than the last day of the February following such Plan Year).       

(ii)  
   Exception for Small Amounts . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 9, if:         

(A)  
  at the time of any distribution of installments from this Plan or any other account balance deferred compensation plan of Employer or an Affiliate, the combined value of
(1) the Participant s Account in this Plan as of the Valuation Date as of which an installment is to be determined and (2) the Participant s post-2004 accounts in all other account balance deferred compensation plans of the
Employer or an Affiliate is determined to be equal to or less than the applicable dollar amount under section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code for such calendar year ($15,500 in 2007), and         

(B)  
  all such other account balance deferred compensation plans in which the Participant has an account provide for a mandatory small amount cashout of elective deferrals on the same
basis as this Section 9.2(b),        then, the portion of the Participant s Account in this Plan which is payable in the
form of installments shall be distributed to the Participant in a lump sum as soon as practicable after such Valuation Date.         
   9   

(c)  
   Five (5) Year Delay, Then Lump Sum . In the form of a single lump sum following the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service or
Disability. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which occurs the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Employment
or Disability. Actual distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after such determination.         

(d)  
   Ten (10) Year Delay, Then Lump Sum . In the form of a single lump sum following the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service or
Disability. The amount of such distribution shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible as of a Valuation Date following the Plan Year in which occurs the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Employment
or Disability. Actual distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable after such determination.         17. RE-ELECTION OF
FORM OF DISTRIBUTION-COMPLIANCE WITH CODE SECTION 409A. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or January 1, 2008, Section 9.3.4 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       9.3.4.  Re-Election of Form of Distribution . Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Executive Vice
President, Human Capital, the Participant may elect from time to time to change the form of payment for a specified portion of the Participant s Account or to delay payment of a specified portion of the Participant s Account. Each
subsequent distribution election shall be effective as to the specified portion of the Participant s Account. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any new distribution election shall be disregarded as if it had never been filed (and the prior
distribution election shall be given effect) unless the distribution election:       

(a)  
  is filed by a Participant while employed by the Employer or an Affiliate,         

(b)  
  is filed with the Executive Vice President, Human Capital at least twelve (12) months before the Participant s scheduled distribution date following the Participant s
Termination of Employment, Disability or death,         

(c)  
  is filed at least twelve (12) months after the initial distribution election for the specified portion of the Participant s Account (or, if one or more prior changes has
been filed, at least twelve (12) months after the latest of such changes was filed),         

(d)  
  has the effect of delaying payment of the lump sum (or, in the case of installments treated as a single payment, the first installment) under the prior election for at least five
(5) years, and         

(e)  
  shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date it is filed with the Executive Vice President, Human Capital.           
   10   

No spouse, former spouse, Beneficiary or other person shall have any right to participate in the Participant s
decision to revise distribution elections. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive Vice President, Human Capital shall interpret all provisions of this Plan relating to the change of any distribution election in a manner that is consistent with
section 409A of the Code and the regulations and other guidance issued thereunder. Accordingly, if the Executive Vice President, Human Capital determines that a requested revision to a distribution election is inconsistent with section 409A of
the Code or other applicable tax law, the request shall not be effective.       18. ELECTION TO DELAY PRE-SELECTED IN-SERVICE DISTRIBUTION DATE. Effective
for all elections to delay a pre-selected in-service distribution made on or after January 1, 2008, Section 9.8.1(f) of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:        

(f)  
  Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital, the Participant may elect to postpone any
pre-selected in-service distribution for at least five (5) years. A pre-selected in-service distribution may be postponed only once. The Participant must file the election with the Executive Vice President, Human Capital at least twelve
(12) months before the original scheduled date of distribution. Such election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date it is filed with the Executive Vice President, Human Capital.         19. IN-SERVICE DISTRIBUTION FOR UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY. Effective for all in-service distributions for unforeseeable emergencies made on or after January 1,
2008, Section 9.8.2 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       9.8.2.  In-Service Distribution for
Unforeseeable Emergency . A Participant who has incurred an unforeseeable emergency may request an in-service distribution while employed from the Participant s Account if the Executive Vice President, Human Capital determines that such
distribution is for one of the purposes described in (b) below and the conditions in (b) below have been satisfied.       

(a)  
   Election . A Participant may elect in writing to receive distribution of all or a portion of the Participant s Account prior to Termination of Employment or Disability to
alleviate an unforeseeable emergency (as defined in (b) below). A Beneficiary of a deceased Participant may also request an early distribution for an unforeseeable emergency.         

(b)  
   Unforeseeable Emergency Defined . For purposes of this Section, an  unforeseeable emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from:

(i)  
  an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s Beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in section 152 of the
Code, without regard to sections 152(b)(1), 152(b)(2) and 152(d)(1)(B) of the Code),           
   11   

(ii)  
  the loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or         

(iii)  
  other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable emergency circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.        Whether a Participant is faced with an unforeseeable emergency will be determined based on the relevant facts and circumstances. If a severe financial
hardship is or may be relieved either (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe
financial hardship), or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under this Plan (at the earliest possible date otherwise permitted under this Plan) or any 401(k) plan, then the hardship shall not constitute an unforeseeable emergency for purposes of
this Plan. If a Beneficiary of a deceased Participant requests an early distribution for an unforeseeable emergency, then the references in this definition to  Participant  shall be deemed to be references to such Beneficiary.   

(c)  
   Distribution Amount . The amount of such distribution is limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the unforeseeable emergency. The amount of such distribution
shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the receipt and approval of the request by the Executive Vice President, Human Capital or his or her designee and shall be actually paid as soon as administratively practicable after
such determination.         

(d)  
   Suspension Rule . If a Participant receives a distribution due to an unforeseeable emergency (under this Plan or the UnitedHealth Group Legacy Executive Savings Plan), the
Participant s deferrals under Sections 3 and 4 will cease as soon as administratively practicable following the date such distribution is made. The Participant may not again elect to defer compensation under this Plan until the enrollment
period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such distribution.         20. IRC STATUS. Effective for Plan Year
beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 14.1.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       14.1.3.  IRC Status . This Plan is intended to be a nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement. The rules of section 401(a) et. seq. of the Code shall not apply to this Plan. The rules of section 3121(v) and section 3306(r)(2) of
the Code shall apply to this Plan. The rules of section 409A of the Code shall apply to this Plan to the extent applicable and this Plan Statement shall be construed and administered accordingly. It is expressly intended  
       
   12   

that for purposes of section 409A of the Code this Plan be considered an account balance plan that consists of amounts deferred at the election of the
service provider and amounts deferred other than at the election of the service provider. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Employer nor any of its officers, directors, agents or affiliates shall be obligated, directly or indirectly, to any
Participant or any other person for any taxes, penalties, interest or like amounts that may be imposed on the Participant or other person on account of any amounts under this Plan or on account of any failure to comply with any Code section.
      21. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as hereinabove expressly amended, the Plan Statement shall continue in full force and effect.          
   13   

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.17>
 3
 dex1017.htm
 THIRD AMENDMENT TO DIRECTORS' COMPENSATION DEFERAL PLAN

Third Amendment to Directors' Compensation Deferal Plan 

Exhibit 10.17        THIRD AMENDMENT        OF        UNITEDHEALTH GROUP        DIRECTORS  COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN    
   (2002 Statement)       WHEREAS,
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED, a Minnesota corporation ( UnitedHealth Group ), has heretofore established and maintains a nonqualified, unfunded, deferred compensation plan (the  Plan ) for the benefit of certain members of its
Board of Directors; and      WHEREAS, Said Plan is currently embodied in a document adopted on October 30, 2001, and entitled
 UNITEDHEALTH GROUP DIRECTORS  COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN (2002 Statement)  and as amended by a First Amendment adopted on March 8, 2004 and by a Second Amendment adopted on October 31, 2006 (hereinafter collectively
referred to as the  Plan Statement); and      WHEREAS, Pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Plan Statement, the Compensation and Human
Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group (the  Compensation Committee ) has the general power to amend the Plan Statement by a written instrument executed by UnitedHealth Group; and      WHEREAS, UnitedHealth Group desires to amend the Plan Statement to provide for the following: (i) to bring the Plan into compliance with the
requirements of final regulations under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code that were issued earlier this year, and (ii) to make other clarifying or administrative changes.      NOW, THEREFORE, The Plan Statement is hereby amended in the following respects:       1. TERMINATION OF DIRECTORSHIP. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 1.2.13 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       1.2.13.  Termination of Directorship    a complete severance of a Participant s membership on the Board of Directors of UnitedHealth Group
for any reason other than the Participant s death. Whether a Termination of Directorship has occurred is determined under section 409A of the Code and section 1.409A-1(h) of the regulations ( i.e. , whether the expiration of the
director s term or his or her resignation or removal from the Board constitutes a good-faith and complete termination of the Director s relationship with UnitedHealth Group).       2. DISTRIBUTION TO SPECIFIED EMPLOYEE. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 8.1.3 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       8.1.3.  Distribution to Specified Employees . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan Statement, in the event that a Participant in the Plan
is determined to be a  

specified employee  (as that term is defined under section 409A of the Code), any distribution to the Participant on account of the
Participant s Termination of Directorship shall be delayed by at least six (6) months to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code.       3. TREATMENT OF INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 8.2(b) of the Plan Statement shall be amended by adding the following sentence after the first sentence
of Section        8.2(b):       If a Participant elects to
receive payment in the form of installments, then pursuant to section 409A of the Code and regulations issued thereunder (and for purposes of the re-election provisions in Section 8.4.4), the series of installment payments shall be treated
as the entitlement to a single payment (rather than a series of separate payments).       4. TREATMENT OF INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS. Effective for Plan Years
beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 8.4.4(b) of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:        

(b)  
   For Post 2003-Accounts . Each subsequent distribution election filed with respect to the Participant s Post-2003 Account shall supersede all prior distribution elections
filed with respect to such specified portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account and shall be effective as to the specified portion of the Participant s Post-2003 Account. If, however, the subsequent distribution election does not have
the effect of delaying payment of the lump sum (or, in the case of installments treated as a single payment, the first installment) under the prior election for at least five (5) years, such distribution election shall be disregarded as if it
had never been filed (and the prior effective distribution election shall be given effect).         5. CLARIFICATION REGARDING DELAYING
PRE-SELECTED IN-SERVICE DISTRIBUTION. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, Section 8.4.4(c)(iv) of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:        

(iv)  
  if the new distribution election is filed with respect to the Participant s Post-2003 Account, such election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after
the date it is filed with the Committee.         6. IN-SERVICE DISTRIBUTIONS FROM POST-2003 ACCOUNTS. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or
after January 1, 2008, Section 8.9.2(f) of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:        

(f)  
  Through a voice response system (or other written or electronic means) approved by the Committee, the Participant may elect to postpone any pre-selected in-service distribution date
for at least five (5) years. A pre-selected in-service distribution may be postponed only once. The Participant must file the election with the Committee at least twelve (12) months before the original scheduled date of distribution. Such
election shall not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date it is filed with the Committee.           
   2   

7. IN-SERVICE DISTRIBUTION FOR UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY. Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1,
2008, Section 8.9.4 of the Plan Statement shall be amended to read in full as follows:       8.9.4.  In-Service Distribution for
Unforeseeable Emergency . A Participant who has incurred an unforeseeable emergency may request an in-service distribution from the Participant s Account if the Committee determines that such distribution is for one of the purposes described
in (b) below and the conditions in (b) below have been satisfied.       

(a)  
   Election . A Participant may elect in writing to receive distribution of all or part of the Participant s Account prior to a Termination of Directorship to alleviate an
unforeseeable emergency (as defined in (b) below). A Beneficiary of a deceased Participant may also request an early distribution for an unforeseeable emergency.         

(b)  
   Unforeseeable Emergency Defined . For purposes of this Section, an  unforeseeable emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from:

(i)  
  a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s Beneficiary or the Participant s dependent (as defined in
section 152 of the Code, without regard to sections 152(b)(1), 152(b)(2) and 152(d)(1)(B) of the Code),         

(ii)  
  the loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or         

(iii)  
  other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable emergency circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.        Whether a Participant is faced with an unforeseeable emergency will be determined based on the relevant facts and circumstances. If a severe financial
hardship is or may be relieved either (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe
financial hardship), or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under this Plan (at the earliest possible date otherwise permitted under this Plan) or any 401(k) plan, then the hardship shall not constitute an unforeseeable emergency for purposes of
this Plan. If a Beneficiary of a deceased Participant requests an early distribution for an unforeseeable emergency, then the references in this definition to  Participant  shall be deemed to be references to such Beneficiary.   

(c)  
   Distribution Amount . The amount of such distribution is limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the unforeseeable emergency. The amount of such distribution
shall be determined as soon as administratively feasible following the receipt and approval of the request by the Committee or its designee and shall be actually paid as soon as practicable after such approval.           
   3   

(d)  
   Suspension Rule . If a Participant receives a distribution due to Financial Hardship, the Participant s deferrals under Section 3 will cease as soon as
administratively practicable following the date such distribution is made. The Participant may not again elect to defer compensation under this Plan until the enrollment period for the Plan Year that begins at least six (6) months after such
distribution.         8. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as hereinabove expressly amended, the Plan Statement shall continue in full force and
effect.          
   4   

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.22>
 4
 dex1022.htm
 LETTER AGREEMENT WITH STEPHEN J. HEMSLEY

Letter Agreement with Stephen J. Hemsley 

Exhibit 10.22        PRIVILEGED   CONFIDENTIAL       December 28, 2007      Mr. Richard T. Burke      Chairman of the Board of Directors
     UnitedHealth Group Incorporated      9900 Bren Road East
     Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343      Dear Mr. Burke:   
  This letter sets forth my agreement with UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the   Company  ) concerning certain of the options to purchase
shares of common stock of the Company granted to me by the Company during the years 2003 and 2004 (the   Subject Options  ). This letter agreement will be effective on the date a duly authorized representative of the Company executes
the acceptance at the end of this letter on behalf of the Company (such date, the   Effective Date  ).      In furtherance of
the steps I took in the Fall of last year to remediate the Company s past option administration practices, and as I previously advised the Board of Directors and the Special Litigation Committee, I have decided to voluntarily reprice the
Subject Options, on the terms set forth herein. This letter agreement in no way constitutes an admission of wrongdoing or an admission of any knowledge that the Company s option administration practices were in any way deficient.      Exhibit A attached to this letter agreement sets forth a listing of each Subject Option. With respect to each Subject Option, Exhibit A includes the
stated grant date, the stated exercise price per the Company s 2007 proxy statement, and the new stated exercise price (the   Adjustment Price  ).   

The Company and I agree as follows:      1. Effective as of the Effective Date, the exercise price of each Outstanding Subject Option shall be increased to equal the Adjustment Price applicable
to such Outstanding Subject Option.      2. The adjustments effected by paragraph 1 are set forth on Exhibit A.      3. Except as set forth in this letter agreement, each outstanding option held by me as of the date hereof shall remain outstanding, unaltered and in full
force and effect.      4. I hereby authorize the Company to update its books and records to reflect the amendment of any option agreement or
certificate pursuant to this letter agreement. I agree to make such filings on Form 4 as shall be necessary to reflect any such amendments and to take all other actions necessary or appropriate to give effect to the foregoing.      5. To the extent that the terms of this letter agreement may conflict with any employment agreement, option agreement or certificate or other agreement
or understanding between me and the Company, whether written or oral (collectively, the   Other Agreements  ), the terms of this letter agreement shall govern. Except as expressly modified by this letter agreement, all Other
Agreements shall remain in full force and effect.      *            
*             *      This letter agreement constitutes the entire agreement between
the Company and me with respect to changes in the exercise price of my options and supersedes, in its entirety, any other agreement between us, whether written or oral, relating to such matter. This letter may not be amended or supplemented without
both my consent and the express written authorization of the Board of Directors. This letter agreement may be executed in counterparts, including by facsimile signature, all of which shall constitute one instrument, and it shall be governed by the
internal laws of the State of Minnesota, without giving effect to any otherwise applicable choice of law rules.        

Very truly yours,   

/s/ Stephen J. Hemsley    
 
  Stephen J. Hemsley   

Acknowledged and agreed effective this 19th day of February, 2008.        

UNITED HEALTH GROUP INCORPORATED   

By:  
     
    /s/ Richard T. Burke    

Name    
 
  Title:  
     
  Chairman of the Board of Directors   

Exhibit A      To      Option Repricing Letter Agreement      Stephen J. Hemsley      Subject Options       

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.24>
 5
 dex1024.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH WILLIAM A. MUNSELL

Employment Agreement with William A. Munsell 

Exhibit 10.24        EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This Agreement is between William Munsell ( Executive ) and United
HealthCare Services, Inc. ( UnitedHealth Group ), and is effective as of April 10, 2007 (the  Effective Date ). This Agreement s purposes are to set forth certain terms of Executive s employment by UnitedHealth
Group or one of its affiliates and to protect UnitedHealth Group s knowledge, expertise, customer relationships, and confidential information. Unless the context otherwise requires,  UnitedHealth Group  includes all its affiliated
entities.       

1.  
   Employment and Duties .         

A.  
   Employment . UnitedHealth Group hereby employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment, under this Agreement s terms.         

B.  
   Title and Duties . Executive will be employed as an Executive Vice President. Executive will perform such duties, have such authority, and exercise such supervision and
control as are commonly associated with Executive s position, as well as perform such other duties as are reasonably assigned to Executive. Executive will devote substantially all of Executive s business time and energy to Executive s
duties. Executive will maintain operations in Executive s area of responsibility, and make every reasonable effort to ensure that the employees within that area of responsibility act, in compliance with applicable law and UnitedHealth
Group s Principles of Integrity and Compliance. Executive is subject to all of UnitedHealth Group s employment policies and procedures (except as specifically superseded by this Agreement).         

2.  
   Compensation and Benefits .         

A.  
   Base Salary . Executive s initial annual base salary will be $600,000, payable according to UnitedHealth Group s regular payroll schedule. Periodic adjustments to
Executive s base salary may be made.         

B.  
   Incentive Compensation . Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s incentive compensation plans in UnitedHealth Group s discretion and in
accordance with the plans  terms and conditions. Executive s initial target bonus potential will be 90% of annual base salary, subject to periodic adjustments.         

C.  
   Equity Awards . Executive will be eligible for stock-based awards in UnitedHealth Group s discretion.         

D.  
     Employee Benefits . Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s employee welfare, retirement, and other benefit plans on the same
basis as  

other similarly situated executives, in accordance with the terms of the plans. Executive will be eligible for Paid Time Off in accordance with UnitedHealth
Group s policies. UnitedHealth Group reserves the right to amend or discontinue any plan or policy at any time in its sole discretion. In addition to the Company s generally available benefits, the Company shall provide Executive, at the
Company s expense during the term of Executive s employment, a $2 million face value term life insurance policy and a long term disability policy which covers 60% of base salary in the event of a qualifying long term disability, subject to
the policy terms.          

3.  
   Term and Termination .         

A.  
   Term . This Agreement s term is from the Effective Date until this Agreement is terminated under Section 3.B.         

B.  
   Termination .         

i.  
   By Mutual Agreement . The parties may terminate Executive s employment and this Agreement at any time by mutual agreement.         

ii.  
   By UnitedHealth Group without Cause . UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment without Cause upon 90 days  prior written notice.

iii.  
   By UnitedHealth Group with Cause . UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment at any time for Cause.  Cause  means
Executive s (a) material failure to follow UnitedHealth Group s reasonable direction or to perform any duties reasonably required on material matters, (b) material violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected
violations of, UnitedHealth Group s Principles of Integrity and Compliance, (c) conviction of a felony, (d) commission of any criminal, fraudulent, or dishonest act in connection with Executive s employment, (e) material
breach of this Agreement, or (f) conduct that is materially detrimental to UnitedHealth Group s interests. UnitedHealth Group will, within 120 days of the discovery of the conduct, give Executive written notice specifying the conduct
constituting Cause in reasonable detail, and Executive will have 60 days to remedy such conduct, if such conduct is reasonably capable of being remedied. In any instance where the Company may have grounds for Cause, failure by the Company to provide
written notice of the grounds for Cause within 120 days of discovery shall be a waiver of its right to assert the subject conduct as a basis for termination for Cause.           
   - 2 -   

iv.  
   By Executive without Good Reason . Executive may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment at any time for any reason, including due to Executive s
retirement.         

v.  
   By Executive for Good Reason . Executive may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment for Good Reason, as defined below. Executive must give UnitedHealth Group
written notice specifying in reasonable detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, within 120 days of becoming aware of such circumstances, or such circumstances will not constitute Good Reason. If the circumstances constituting Good Reason
are reasonably capable of being remedied, UnitedHealth Group will have 60 days to remedy such circumstances.  Good Reason  will exist if, without Executive s consent, UnitedHealth Group: (a) reduces Executive s base salary
or long or short term target bonus percentage other than in connection with a general reduction affecting a group of similarly situated employees; (b) moves Executive s primary work location more than 50 miles; (c) makes changes that
substantially diminish Executive s duties or responsibilities; or (d) changes the Executive s reporting relationship.         

vi.  
   Due to Executive s Death or Disability.  This Agreement and Executive s employment will terminate automatically if Executive dies. The termination date will be the
date of Executive s death. UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment due to Executive s disability that renders Executive incapable of performing the essential functions of Executive s job, with
or without reasonable accommodation. Executive will not be entitled to Severance Benefits under Section 4 in the event of termination due to Executive s death or disability.         

4.  
   Severance Benefits .         

A.  
   Circumstances under Which Severance Benefits Payable . Executive will be entitled to Severance Benefits only if Executive s employment is terminated by UnitedHealth Group
without Cause or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason. The Severance Benefits in this Agreement are in lieu of any payments or benefits to which Executive otherwise might be entitled under any UnitedHealth Group severance plan or
program.         

B.  
   Severance Benefits . Executive will be entitled to the following Severance Benefits in the event Executive s employment terminates under the circumstances described in
Section 4A above:        (1) Two times the Executive s annualized base salary as of Executive s termination date;
        
   - 3 -   

(2) Two times the average of the total of any bonus or incentive compensation paid or payable to
Executive for the two most recent calendar years (excluding equity-related awards, payments under any long-term or similar benefit plan, or any other special or one-time bonus or incentive compensation payments);      (3)  $ 12,000 payment to offset costs of COBRA; and      (4) Outplacement services consistent with those provided to similarly situated executives provided by an outplacement firm selected by UnitedHealth Group.      Subject to the provisions  416(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, all payments in (1)-(2) above will be less applicable deductions, including
deductions for tax withholding, and will be paid bi-weekly on the regular payroll cycle over the 24- month severance period. Executive and the Company agree that this Section 4 will not have the effect of extending the vesting period of any
equity awards granted prior to the date hereof.       

C.  
   Separation Agreement and Release Required . In order to receive any Severance Benefits under this Agreement, Executive must sign a separation agreement and release of claims
substantially in the form attached hereto.         

5.  
   Property Rights, Confidentiality, Non-Disparagement, and Restrictive Covenants .         

A.  
   UnitedHealth Group s Property .         

i.  
   Assignment of Property Rights . Executive must promptly disclose in writing to UnitedHealth Group all inventions, discoveries, processes, procedures, methods and works of
authorship, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, that Executive alone or jointly conceives, makes, discovers, writes or creates, during working hours or on Executive s own time, during this Agreement s term (the  Works ).
Executive hereby assigns to UnitedHealth Group all Executive s rights, including copyrights and patent rights, to all Works. Executive must assist UnitedHealth Group as it reasonably requires to perfect, protect, and use its rights to the
Works. This provision does not apply to any Work for which no UnitedHealth Group equipment, supplies, facility or trade secret information was used and: (1) which does not relate directly to UnitedHealth Group s business or actual or
demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (2) which does not result from any work performed for UnitedHealth Group.           
   - 4 -   

ii.  
   No Removal of Property . Executive may not remove from UnitedHealth Group s premises any UnitedHealth Group records, documents, data or other property, in either original
or duplicate form, except as necessary in the ordinary course of UnitedHealth Group s business.         

iii.  
   Return of Property . Executive must immediately deliver to UnitedHealth Group, upon termination of employment, or at any other time at UnitedHealth Group s request, all
UnitedHealth Group property, including records, documents, data, and equipment, and all copies of any such property, including any records or data Executive prepared during employment.         

B.  
   Confidential Information . Executive will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ( Confidential
Information ) in the course of Executive s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing
information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and information. Executive agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or
after Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group, except as necessary to perform Executive s UnitedHealth Group duties or as UnitedHealth Group may consent in writing. This Agreement does not restrict use or disclosure of publicly
available information or information: (i) that Executive obtained from a source other than UnitedHealth Group before becoming employed by UnitedHealth Group; or (ii) that Executive received from a source outside UnitedHealth Group without
an obligation of confidentiality.         

C.  
   Non-Disparagement . Executive agrees not to criticize, make any negative comments or otherwise disparage UnitedHealth Group or those associated with it, whether orally, in
writing or otherwise, directly or by implication, to any person or entity, including UnitedHealth Group customers and agents.         

D.  
   Restrictive Covenants . Executive agrees to the restrictive covenants in this Section in consideration of Executive s employment and UnitedHealth Group s promises in
this Agreement, including providing Executive access to Confidential Information. The restrictive covenants in this Section apply during Executive s employment and for 24 months following termination of employment for any reason. Executive
agrees that he will not, without UnitedHealth Group s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Executive or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder,
or in any other individual or representative capacity:         

i.  
     Customer Solicitation : Executive will not engage in, or attempt to engage in, any business competitive with any UnitedHealth Group business with  
          
   - 5 -   

any person or entity who: (a) was a UnitedHealth Group provider or customer within the 12 months before Executive s employment termination and
(b) with whom Executive had contact to further UnitedHealth Group s business or for whom Executive performed services, or supervised the provision of services for, during Executive s employment.          

ii.  
   Employee Solicitation : Executive will not hire, employ, recruit or solicit any UnitedHealth Group employee or consultant.         

iii.  
   Interference : Executive will not induce or influence any UnitedHealth Group employee, consultant, customer or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other
relationship with UnitedHealth Group.         

iv.  
   Competitive Activities : Executive will not engage or participate in, or in any way render services or assistance to, any business that competes, directly or indirectly, with
any UnitedHealth Group product or service that Executive participated in, engaged in, or had Confidential Information regarding, during Executive s employment; provided, however, that this Section 5.D.iv. will not prevent Executive from
being employed by, or working as a consultant to, or serving on the board of, or being an owner or an investor in, a private equity firm.         

v.  
   Assisting Others : Executive will not assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.         

E.  
   Cooperation and Indemnification . Executive agrees that Executive will cooperate (i) with UnitedHealth Group in the defense of any legal claim involving any matter that
arose during Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group, and (ii) with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding concerning UnitedHealth Group. UnitedHealth Group
will reimburse Executive for any reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Executive in providing such cooperation. UnitedHealth Group will indemnify Executive, in accordance with the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, for all claims
and other covered matters arising in connection with Executive s employment.         

F.  
   Injunctive Relief . Executive agrees that (a) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of Section 5 will be inadequate, (b) UnitedHealth Group will suffer
immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (c) UnitedHealth Group will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies UnitedHealth Group may seek in arbitration. If an arbitrator or court
determines that Executive has breached any provision of Section 5, Executive agrees to pay to UnitedHealth Group its reasonable costs and attorney s fees incurred in enforcing that provision.           
   - 6 -   

G.  
   Survival . This Section 5 will survive this Agreement s termination.         

6.  
   Miscellaneous .         

A.  
   Tax Withholding . All compensation payable under this Agreement will be subject to applicable tax withholding and other required or authorized deductions.

B.  
   Assignment . Executive may not assign this Agreement. UnitedHealth Group may assign this Agreement. Any successor to UnitedHealth Group will be deemed to be UnitedHealth Group
under this Agreement.         

C.  
   Notices . All notices under this Agreement must be hand delivered or sent by facsimile, e-mail, or registered or certified mail to the party s address below or to the
party s current address at the time of notice.         

D.  
   Entire Agreement, Amendment . This Agreement contains the parties  entire agreement regarding its subject matter and may only be amended in a writing signed by the
parties. This Agreement supersedes any and all prior oral or written employment agreements (including letters and memoranda) between Executive and UnitedHealth Group or its predecessors. This Agreement does not supersede any stock option, restricted
stock, or stock appreciation rights plan or award certificate.         

E.  
   Choice of Law . Minnesota law governs this Agreement.         

F.  
   Waivers . No party s failure to exercise, or delay in exercising, any right or remedy under this Agreement will be a waiver of such right or remedy, nor will any single
or partial exercise of any right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such right or remedy.         

G.  
   Narrowed Enforcement and Severability . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or overbroad, the parties agree that the court or
arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Agreement should be unaffected.     
     
   - 7 -   

H.  
   Dispute Resolution and Remedies . Except for injunctive relief under Section 5.F, any dispute between the parties relating to this Agreement or to Executive s
employment will be resolved by binding arbitration under UnitedHealth Group s Employment Arbitration Policy, as it may be amended from time to time. The arbitrator(s) may not vary this Agreement s terms and must apply applicable law.

United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

William Munsell   

By  
     
    /s/ Richard H. Anderson   

/s/ William Munsell    
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President  

Date April 10, 2007  

Date March 15, 2007   
       
   - 8 -   

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.28>
 6
 dex1028.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH ANTHONY WELTERS

Employment Agreement with Anthony Welters 

Exhibit 10.28        EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       This Agreement is between Anthony Welters ( Executive ) and United
HealthCare Services, Inc. ( UnitedHealth Group ), and is effective as of April 12, 2007 (the  Effective Date ). This Agreement s purposes are to set forth certain terms of Executive s employment by UnitedHealth
Group or one of its affiliates and to protect UnitedHealth Group s knowledge, expertise, customer relationships, and confidential information. Unless the context otherwise requires,  UnitedHealth Group  includes all its affiliated
entities.       

1.  
   Employment and Duties .         

A.  
   Employment . UnitedHealth Group hereby employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment, under this Agreement s terms.         

B.  
   Title and Duties . Executive will be employed as Executive Vice President. Executive will perform such duties, have such authority, and exercise such supervision and control
as are commonly associated with Executive s position, as well as perform such other duties as are reasonably assigned to Executive. Executive will devote substantially all of Executive s business time and energy to Executive s duties.
Executive will maintain operations in Executive s area of responsibility, and make every reasonable effort to ensure that the employees within that area of responsibility act, in compliance with applicable law and UnitedHealth Group s
Principles of Integrity and Compliance. Executive is subject to all of UnitedHealth Group s employment policies and procedures (except as specifically superseded by this Agreement).         

2.  
   Compensation and Benefits .         

A.  
   Base Salary . Executive s initial annual base salary will be $600,000, payable according to UnitedHealth Group s regular payroll schedule. Periodic adjustments to
Executive s base salary may be made.         

B.  
   Incentive Compensation . Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s incentive compensation plans in UnitedHealth Group s discretion and in
accordance with the plans  terms and conditions. Executive s initial target bonus potential will be 90% of annual base salary, subject to periodic adjustments.         

C.  
   Equity Awards . Executive will be eligible for stock-based awards in UnitedHealth Group s discretion.         

D.  
     Employee Benefits . Executive will be eligible to participate in UnitedHealth Group s employee welfare, retirement, and other benefit plans on the same
basis as other similarly situated executives, in accordance with the terms of the plans. Executive will be eligible for Paid Time Off in accordance with UnitedHealth  

Group s policies. UnitedHealth Group reserves the right to amend or discontinue any plan or policy at any time in its sole discretion. In addition to
the Company s generally available benefits, the Company shall provide Executive, at the Company s expense during the term of Executive s employment, a $2 million face value term life insurance policy and a long term disability policy
which covers 60% of base salary in the event of a qualifying long term disability, subject to the policy terms.          

3.  
   Term and Termination .         

A.  
   Term . This Agreement s term is from the Effective Date until this Agreement is terminated under Section 3.B.         

B.  
   Termination .         

i.  
   By Mutual Agreement . The parties may terminate Executive s employment and this Agreement at any time by mutual agreement.         

ii.  
   By UnitedHealth Group without Cause . UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment without Cause upon 90 days  prior written notice.

iii.  
   By UnitedHealth Group with Cause . UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment at any time for Cause.  Cause  means
Executive s (a) material failure to follow UnitedHealth Group s reasonable direction or to perform any duties reasonably required on material matters, (b) material violation of, or failure to act upon or report known or suspected
violations of, UnitedHealth Group s Principles of Integrity and Compliance, (c) conviction of a felony, (d) commission of any criminal, fraudulent, or dishonest act in connection with Executive s employment, (e) material
breach of this Agreement, or (f) conduct that is materially detrimental to UnitedHealth Group s interests. UnitedHealth Group will, within 120 days of the discovery of the conduct, give Executive written notice specifying the conduct
constituting Cause in reasonable detail, and Executive will have 60 days to remedy such conduct, if such conduct is reasonably capable of being remedied. In any instance where the Company may have grounds for Cause, failure by the Company to provide
written notice of the grounds for Cause within 120 days of discovery shall be a waiver of its right to assert the subject conduct as a basis for termination for Cause.         

iv.  
   By Executive without Good Reason . Executive may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment at any time for any reason, including due to Executive s
retirement.           
   - 2 -   

v.  
   By Executive for Good Reason . Executive may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment for Good Reason, as defined below. Executive must give UnitedHealth Group
written notice specifying in reasonable detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, within 120 days of becoming aware of such circumstances, or such circumstances will not constitute Good Reason. If the circumstances constituting Good Reason
are reasonably capable of being remedied, UnitedHealth Group will have 60 days to remedy such circumstances.  Good Reason  will exist if, without Executive s consent, UnitedHealth Group: (a) reduces Executive s base salary
or long or short term target bonus percentage other than in connection with a general reduction affecting a group of similarly situated employees; (b) moves Executive s primary work location more than 50 miles; (c) makes changes that
substantially diminish Executive s duties or responsibilities; or (d) changes the Executive s reporting relationship.         

vi.  
   Due to Executive s Death or Disability.  This Agreement and Executive s employment will terminate automatically if Executive dies. The termination date will be the
date of Executive s death. UnitedHealth Group may terminate this Agreement and Executive s employment due to Executive s disability that renders Executive incapable of performing the essential functions of Executive s job, with
or without reasonable accommodation. Executive will not be entitled to Severance Benefits under Section 4 in the event of termination due to Executive s death or disability.         

4.  
   Severance Benefits .         

A.  
   Circumstances under Which Severance Benefits Payable . Executive will be entitled to Severance Benefits only if Executive s employment is terminated by UnitedHealth Group
without Cause or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason. The Severance Benefits in this Agreement are in lieu of any payments or benefits to which Executive otherwise might be entitled under any UnitedHealth Group severance plan or
program.         

B.  
   Severance Benefits . Executive will be entitled to the following Severance Benefits in the event Executive s employment terminates under the circumstances described in
Section 4A above:        (1) Two times the Executive s annualized base salary as of Executive s termination date;
        
   - 3 -   

(2) Two times the average of the total of any bonus or incentive compensation paid or payable to
Executive for the two most recent calendar years (excluding equity-related awards, payments under any long-term or similar benefit plan, or any other special or one-time bonus or incentive compensation payments);      (3)  $ 12,000 payment to offset costs of COBRA; and      (4) Outplacement services consistent with those provided to similarly situated executives provided by an outplacement firm selected by UnitedHealth Group.      Subject to the provisions  416(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, all payments in (1)-(2) above will be less applicable deductions, including
deductions for tax withholding, and will be paid bi-weekly on the regular payroll cycle over the 24- month severance period. Executive and the Company agree that this Section 4 will not have the effect of extending the vesting period of any
equity awards granted prior to the date hereof.       

C.  
   Separation Agreement and Release Required . In order to receive any Severance Benefits under this Agreement, Executive must sign a separation agreement and release of claims
substantially in the form attached hereto.         

5.  
   Property Rights, Confidentiality, Non-Disparagement, and Restrictive Covenants .         

A.  
   UnitedHealth Group s Property .         

i.  
   Assignment of Property Rights . Executive must promptly disclose in writing to UnitedHealth Group all inventions, discoveries, processes, procedures, methods and works of
authorship, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, that Executive alone or jointly conceives, makes, discovers, writes or creates, during working hours or on Executive s own time, during this Agreement s term (the  Works ).
Executive hereby assigns to UnitedHealth Group all Executive s rights, including copyrights and patent rights, to all Works. Executive must assist UnitedHealth Group as it reasonably requires to perfect, protect, and use its rights to the
Works. This provision does not apply to any Work for which no UnitedHealth Group equipment, supplies, facility or trade secret information was used and: (1) which does not relate directly to UnitedHealth Group s business or actual or
demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (2) which does not result from any work performed for UnitedHealth Group.         

ii.  
   No Removal of Property . Executive may not remove from UnitedHealth Group s premises any UnitedHealth Group records, documents, data or other property, in either original
or duplicate form, except as necessary in the ordinary course of UnitedHealth Group s business.           
   - 4 -   

iii.  
   Return of Property . Executive must immediately deliver to UnitedHealth Group, upon termination of employment, or at any other time at UnitedHealth Group s request, all
UnitedHealth Group property, including records, documents, data, and equipment, and all copies of any such property, including any records or data Executive prepared during employment.         

B.  
   Confidential Information . Executive will be given access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ( Confidential
Information ) in the course of Executive s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing
information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and information. Executive agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information, either during or
after Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group, except as necessary to perform Executive s UnitedHealth Group duties or as UnitedHealth Group may consent in writing. This Agreement does not restrict use or disclosure of publicly
available information or information: (i) that Executive obtained from a source other than UnitedHealth Group before becoming employed by UnitedHealth Group; or (ii) that Executive received from a source outside UnitedHealth Group without
an obligation of confidentiality.         

C.  
   Non-Disparagement . Executive agrees not to criticize, make any negative comments or otherwise disparage UnitedHealth Group or those associated with it, whether orally, in
writing or otherwise, directly or by implication, to any person or entity, including UnitedHealth Group customers and agents.         

D.  
   Restrictive Covenants . Executive agrees to the restrictive covenants in this Section in consideration of Executive s employment and UnitedHealth Group s promises in
this Agreement, including providing Executive access to Confidential Information. The restrictive covenants in this Section apply during Executive s employment and for 24 months following termination of employment for any reason. Executive
agrees that he will not, without UnitedHealth Group s prior written consent, directly or indirectly, for Executive or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder,
or in any other individual or representative capacity:         

i.  
   Customer Solicitation : Executive will not engage in, or attempt to engage in, any business competitive with any UnitedHealth Group business with any person or entity who:
(a) was a UnitedHealth Group provider or customer within the 12 months before Executive s employment termination and (b) with whom Executive had contact to further UnitedHealth Group s business or for whom Executive performed
services, or supervised the provision of services for, during Executive s employment.           
   - 5 -   

ii.  
   Employee Solicitation : Executive will not hire, employ, recruit or solicit any UnitedHealth Group employee or consultant.         

iii.  
   Interference : Executive will not induce or influence any UnitedHealth Group employee, consultant, customer or provider to terminate his, her or its employment or other
relationship with UnitedHealth Group.         

iv.  
   Competitive Activities : Executive will not engage or participate in, or in any way render services or assistance to, any business that competes, directly or indirectly, with
any UnitedHealth Group product or service that Executive participated in, engaged in, or had Confidential Information regarding, during Executive s employment; provided, however, that this Section 5.D.iv. will not prevent Executive from
being employed by, or working as a consultant to, or serving on the board of, or being an owner or an investor in, a private equity firm.         

v.  
   Assisting Others : Executive will not assist anyone in any of the activities listed above.         

E.  
   Cooperation and Indemnification . Executive agrees that Executive will cooperate (i) with UnitedHealth Group in the defense of any legal claim involving any matter that
arose during Executive s employment with UnitedHealth Group, and (ii) with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding concerning UnitedHealth Group. UnitedHealth Group
will reimburse Executive for any reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Executive in providing such cooperation. UnitedHealth Group will indemnify Executive, in accordance with the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, for all claims
and other covered matters arising in connection with Executive s employment.         

F.  
   Injunctive Relief . Executive agrees that (a) legal remedies (money damages) for any breach of Section 5 will be inadequate, (b) UnitedHealth Group will suffer
immediate and irreparable harm from any such breach, and (c) UnitedHealth Group will be entitled to injunctive relief from a court in addition to any legal remedies UnitedHealth Group may seek in arbitration. If an arbitrator or court
determines that Executive has breached any provision of Section 5, Executive agrees to pay to UnitedHealth Group its reasonable costs and attorney s fees incurred in enforcing that provision.         

G.  
   Survival . This Section 5 will survive this Agreement s termination.           
   - 6 -   

6.  
   Miscellaneous .         

A.  
   Tax Withholding . All compensation payable under this Agreement will be subject to applicable tax withholding and other required or authorized deductions.

B.  
   Assignment . Executive may not assign this Agreement. UnitedHealth Group may assign this Agreement. Any successor to UnitedHealth Group will be deemed to be UnitedHealth Group
under this Agreement.         

C.  
   Notices . All notices under this Agreement must be hand delivered or sent by facsimile, e-mail, or registered or certified mail to the party s address below or to the
party s current address at the time of notice.         

D.  
   Entire Agreement, Amendment . This Agreement contains the parties  entire agreement regarding its subject matter and may only be amended in a writing signed by the
parties. This Agreement supersedes any and all prior oral or written employment agreements (including letters and memoranda) between Executive and UnitedHealth Group or its predecessors. This Agreement does not supersede any stock option, restricted
stock, or stock appreciation rights plan or award certificate.         

E.  
   Choice of Law . Minnesota law governs this Agreement.         

F.  
   Waivers . No party s failure to exercise, or delay in exercising, any right or remedy under this Agreement will be a waiver of such right or remedy, nor will any single
or partial exercise of any right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such right or remedy.         

G.  
   Narrowed Enforcement and Severability . If a court or arbitrator decides that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or overbroad, the parties agree that the court or
arbitrator should narrow such provision so that it is enforceable or, if narrowing is not possible or permissible, such provision should be considered severed and the other provisions of this Agreement should be unaffected.     

H.  
     Dispute Resolution and Remedies . Except for injunctive relief under Section 5.F, any dispute between the parties relating to this Agreement or to
Executive s  
          
   - 7 -   

employment will be resolved by binding arbitration under UnitedHealth Group s Employment Arbitration Policy, as it may be amended from time to time. The
arbitrator(s) may not vary this Agreement s terms and must apply applicable law.          

United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

Anthony Welters   

By  
     
    /s/ Richard H. Anderson   

/s/ Anthony Welters    
 
  Its  
     
  Executive Vice President  

Date  
     
  April 12, 2007  

Date April 12, 2007   
       
   - 8 -   

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.31>
 7
 dex1031.htm
 NONCOMPETE AND TRANSITION AGREEMENT WITH RICHARD H. ANDERSON

Noncompete and Transition Agreement with Richard H. Anderson 

Exhibit 10.31         NONCOMPETE AND TRANSITION AGREEMENT         THIS NONCOMPETE AND TRANSITION AGREEMENT 
( Agreement ) is between Richard H. Anderson ( Executive ) and United HealthCare Services, Inc. ( UNH ).      WHEREAS, Executive
voluntarily resigned his employment with UNH effective September 15, 2007 ( Resignation Date ).      WHEREAS, UNH believes it is
in the best interests of the Company to obtain non-compete and non-solicitation agreements from Executive for a duration that is longer than the noncompete agreement provided for in Executive s employment agreement dated December 1, 2006.
     NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:      1.  Non-Compete . Executive agrees, for 36 months following his Resignation Date, not to engage or participate, directly or indirectly, for Executive or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee,
officer, director, consultant, owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity, in, or in any way render services or assistance to, any business that competes, directly or indirectly, with any
UnitedHealth Group product or service that Executive participated in, engaged in, or had Confidential Information (as defined in Executive s employment agreement) during Executive s employment; provided, however, that this Section 1
will not prevent Executive from being employed by, or working as a consultant to, or serving on the board of, or being an owner or an investor in, a private equity firm. If, in the future, within the 36-month noncompetition period, Executive wishes
to assume a role in the health care industry, Executive will consult in advance with UNH to determine whether UNH reasonably believes such a role violates this provision. Executive agrees that UNH is required to pay the compensation described in
Section 3 only so long as Executive remains in compliance with his obligations under Sections 1 and 2.      2.  Non-Solicitation .
Executive agrees, for 36 months following his Resignation Date, Executive shall not (1) recruit or solicit any UnitedHealth Group employee or consultant or (2) directly or indirectly solicit, divert, or take away, or attempt to solicit,
divert, or take away, any person or entity who was a UnitedHealth Group provider or customer within 12 months of the Resignation Date and with whom Executive had contact to further UnitedHealth Group s business or for whom Executive performed
services or supervised the provision of services during Executive s employment.      3.  Confidential Information . Executive has
received access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information ( Confidential Information ) during the course of Executive s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions;
new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets; financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier
and vendor lists and information. Executive agrees not to disclose or use Confidential Information after Executive s employment with UNH, except as UNH may consent in writing. This section 3 does not restrict use or disclosure of publicly
available information or information: (i) that Executive obtained from a source other than UNH before becoming employed by UNH or (ii) that Executive received from a source outside UNH without an obligation of confidentiality.   

4.  Consideration . In consideration of Executive s commitments under this Agreement, including
the noncompetition and non-solicitation obligations under Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement, UNH will pay Executive a lump sum of $2,030,000. Because Executive is considered a  key employee  for purposes of Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code, this payment will not be made until six months following the Resignation Date.      All amounts paid under this
Section 4 will be paid to Executive less tax withholdings and deductions. The amounts paid to Executive under this Section 4 do not constitute severance compensation and therefore will not extend the vesting or exercise periods for
Executive s stock options and stock appreciation rights awards. Those awards are governed by their respective certificates and the applicable plan documents, and this Agreement does not supersede or modify in any manner those certificates and
plan documents.      5.  Non-Disparagement . Executive agrees not to criticize, make any negative comments or otherwise disparage UNH or
those associated with it, whether orally, in writing or otherwise, directly or by implication, to any person or entity, including UNH customers and agents.      6.  Release . In consideration for the payments and commitments UNH has made in this Agreement, Executive releases the following parties from all claims he may have, known or unknown, against them:       

UNH;          

UNH s parent, subsidiary and affiliated companies;          

UNH s predecessors; and          

All of the above companies  agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives, shareholders, successors and assigns.         Executive s release of claims includes all claims related to his employment with UNH or his resignation of employment. For example, Executive s release
includes claims based on:       

Any federal statute, including: the False Claims Act (including any right to share in any recovery by the United States government); Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964; the Civil Rights Act of 1866; the Civil Rights Act of 1874; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA); the Equal Pay Act; the Americans with Disabilities Act; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; and the National
Labor Relations Act;          

Any state statute, including discrimination and whistleblower statutes;          

Any ordinance;          

Any express or implied contract, including the Employment Agreement dated December 1, 2006 between UNH and Executive;          

Any tort, such as defamation, misrepresentation, infliction of emotional distress, or fraud;          

Negligence; or          

Any other legal theory.         Executive s release
also waives his right to begin or continue any complaint under UNH s Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) policy.      Executive s release does not:
(i) affect his right to obtain any vested and nonforfeitable balance in his accounts under any retirement plan; (ii) preclude him from exercising any conversion or continuation coverage rights he may have under UNH s welfare benefit
plans; or (iii) waive his right to file an administrative charge with or participate in an administrative proceeding conducted by any governmental agency concerning his employment, although Executive s release does waive any right to
receive any individual remedy, including monetary damages, in connection with any charge.         
   2   

7.  Cooperation and Assistance . Executive agrees that Executive will cooperate (i) with UNH
and its affiliates in the defense of any legal claim involving any matter that arose during his employment with UNH, and (ii) with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding
concerning UNH or its affiliates. UNH will reimburse Executive for any reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Executive in providing such cooperation.      8.  Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights . Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or does supersede or otherwise affect the terms of any agreement or certificate relating to an award
of stock options, restricted stock units or stock appreciation rights. Executive s rights and obligations under any such agreement or certificate, including but not limited to any Restrictive Covenants, remain in full force and effect according
to their terms.      9.  Indemnification . UNH will defend and indemnify Executive in accordance with Minnesota statute
Section 302A.521 and any other applicable law. UNH agrees that this obligation includes payment of attorneys  fees related to stock option-related investigations and litigation.      10.  Judicial Modification and Severability . If any of this Agreement s provisions is determined to be unenforceable, the parties agree that
such provision should be modified so that it is enforceable or, if modification is not possible, that it should be severed, and the enforceability of the remaining provisions will not be affected by such modification or severance.      11.  Governing Law . This Agreement is governed by Minnesota law without regard to its conflicts of laws provisions.      12.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement and any other documents referenced in it are the entire agreement between the parties regarding
Executive s employment resignation. To the extent that there is any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and Executive s employment agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall apply. This Agreement may only be changed by a written
amendment signed by both parties.       

October 7, 2007   
     
    /s/ Richard H. Anderson    
 
  Date  
     
  Richard H. Anderson   

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.   

November 8, 2007   
     
    /s/ Thomas L. Strickland    
 
  Date  
     
  By:  
     
  Thomas L. Strickland   

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer   
       
   3   

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.32>
 8
 dex1032.htm
 NONCOMPETE AND TRANSITION AGREEMENT WITH LOIS QUAM

Noncompete and Transition Agreement with Lois Quam 

Exhibit 10.32         NONCOMPETE AND TRANSITION AGREEMENT         THIS NONCOMPETE AND TRANSITION AGREEMENT 
( Agreement ) is between Lois Quam ( Executive ) and United HealthCare Services, Inc. ( UNH ).      WHEREAS, Executive
voluntarily resigned her employment with UNH effective September 15, 2007 ( Resignation Date ).      WHEREAS, UNH believes it is
in the best interests of the Company to obtain non-compete and non-solicitation agreements from Executive for a duration that is longer than the noncompete agreement currently applicable to Executive.      NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:      1.  Non-Compete . Executive agrees, for 24 months following her Resignation Date, not to engage or participate, directly or indirectly, for Executive or for any other person or entity, as agent, employee, officer, director, consultant,
owner, principal, partner or shareholder, or in any other individual or representative capacity, in, or in any way render services or assistance to, any business that competes, directly or indirectly, with any UnitedHealth Group product or service
that Executive participated in, engaged in, or had Confidential Information (as defined in Executive s employment agreement) during Executive s employment; provided, however, that this Section 1 will not prevent Executive from being
employed by, or working as a consultant to, or serving on the board of, or being an owner or an investor in, a private equity firm. UNH agrees that Executive s position as Managing Director, Alternative Investments at Piper Jaffray does not
violate this provision. If, in the future, within the 24-month noncompetition period, Executive wishes to change her role in the health care industry, Executive will consult in advance with UNH to determine whether UNH reasonably believes such a
changed role violates this provision. Executive agrees that UNH is required to pay the compensation described in Section 4 only so long as Executive remains in compliance with her obligations under Sections 1 and 2.      2.  Non-Solicitation . Executive agrees, for 24 months following her Resignation Date, Executive shall not (1) recruit or solicit any
UnitedHealth Group employee or consultant or (2) directly or indirectly solicit, divert, or take away, or attempt to solicit, divert, or take away, any person or entity who was a UnitedHealth Group provider or customer within 12 months of the
Resignation Date and with whom Executive had contact to further UnitedHealth Group s business or for whom Executive performed services or supervised the provision of services during Executive s employment.      3.  Confidential Information . Executive has received access to and provided with sensitive, confidential, proprietary and trade secret information
( Confidential Information ) during the course of Executive s employment. Examples of Confidential Information include: inventions; new product or marketing plans; business strategies and plans; merger and acquisition targets;
financial and pricing information; computer programs, source codes, models and databases; analytical models; customer lists and information; and supplier and vendor lists and information. Executive agrees not to disclose or use Confidential
Information after Executive s employment with UNH, except as UNH may consent in writing. This section 3 does not restrict use or disclosure of publicly available information or information: (i) that Executive obtained from a source other
than UNH before becoming employed by UNH or (ii) that Executive received from a source outside UNH without an obligation of confidentiality.   

4.  Consideration . In consideration of Executive s commitments under this Agreement, including
the noncompetition and non-solicitation obligations under Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Agreement, UNH will pay Executive a lump sum of $1,762,000. Because Executive is considered a  key employee  for purposes of Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code, this payment will not be made until six months following the Resignation Date.      All amounts paid under this
Section 4 will be paid to Executive less tax withholdings and deductions. The amounts paid to Executive under this Section 4 do not constitute severance compensation and therefore will not extend the vesting or exercise periods for
Executive s stock options and stock appreciation rights awards. Those awards are governed by their respective certificates and the applicable plan documents, and this Agreement does not supersede or modify in any manner those certificates and
plan documents.      5.  Non-Disparagement . Each party agrees not to criticize, make any negative comments or otherwise disparage the
other party or those associated with UNH, whether orally, in writing or otherwise, directly or by implication, to any person or entity, including UNH customers and agents.      6.  Release . In consideration for the payments and commitments UNH has made in this Agreement, Executive releases the following parties from all
claims she may have, known or unknown, against them:       

UNH;          

UNH s parent, subsidiary and affiliated companies;          

UNH s predecessors; and          

All of the above companies  agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives, shareholders, successors and assigns.         Executive s release of claims includes all claims related to her employment with UNH or her resignation of employment. For example, Executive s release
includes claims based on:       

Any federal statute, including: the False Claims Act (including any right to share in any recovery by the United States government); Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964; the Civil Rights Act of 1866; the Civil Rights Act of 1874; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA); the Equal Pay Act; the Americans with Disabilities Act; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; and the National
Labor Relations Act;          

Any state statute, including discrimination and whistleblower statutes;          

Any ordinance;          

Any express or implied contract, including the Employment Agreement dated October 16, 1998 between UNH and Executive;          

Any tort, such as defamation, misrepresentation, infliction of emotional distress, or fraud;          

Negligence; or          

Any other legal theory.         Executive s release
also waives her right to begin or continue any complaint under UNH s Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) policy.      Executive s release does not:
(i) affect her right to obtain any vested and nonforfeitable balance in her accounts under any retirement plan; (ii) preclude her from exercising any conversion or  
       
   2   

continuation coverage rights she may have under UNH s welfare benefit plans; or (iii) waive her right to file an administrative charge with or
participate in an administrative proceeding conducted by any governmental agency concerning her employment, although Executive s release does waive any right to receive any individual remedy, including monetary damages, in connection with any
charge.      7.  Cooperation and Assistance . Executive agrees that Executive will cooperate (i) with UNH and its affiliates in the
defense of any legal claim involving any matter that arose during her employment with UNH, and (ii) with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding concerning UNH or its
affiliates. UNH will reimburse Executive for any reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Executive in providing such cooperation. UNH will also pay Executive a per diem stipend for time spent in providing such cooperation, including
but not limited to preparation, travel, and attendance at any proceedings covered by this paragraph. The per diem stipend will be calculated using the Executive s base salary at the time she left employment.      8.  Stock Options, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights . Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or does supersede or otherwise
affect the terms of any agreement or certificate relating to an award of stock options, restricted stock units or stock appreciation rights. Executive s rights and obligations under any such agreement or certificate, including but not limited
to any Restrictive Covenants, remain in full force and effect according to their terms.      9.  Indemnification . UNH will defend and
indemnify Executive in accordance with Minnesota statute Section 302A.521 and any other applicable law. UNH agrees that this obligation includes payment of attorneys  fees related to stock option-related investigations and litigation.
     10.  Judicial Modification and Severability . If any of this Agreement s provisions is determined to be unenforceable, the
parties agree that such provision should be modified so that it is enforceable or, if modification is not possible, that it should be severed, and the enforceability of the remaining provisions will not be affected by such modification or severance.
     11.  Governing Law . This Agreement is governed by Minnesota law without regard to its conflicts of laws provisions.      12.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement and any other documents referenced in it are the entire agreement between the parties regarding
Executive s employment resignation. To the extent that there is any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and Executive s employment agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall apply. This Agreement may only be changed by a written
amendment signed by both parties.       

November 1, 2007   
     
    /s/ Lois Quam    
 
  Date  
     
  Lois Quam   

UNITED HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.   

November 8, 2007   
     
    /s/ Thomas L. Strickland    
 
  Date  
     
  By:  
     
  Thomas L. Strickland   

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer   
       
   3   

</EX-10.32>

<EX-12.1>
 9
 dex121.htm
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.1        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        Dollars in millions        
    For purposes of computing this ratio, earnings represent income from continuing operations. Fixed
charges represent interest expense including amounts capitalized plus the interest factor in rental expense.       Computation of Ratio of
Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends        Dollars in millions        
    For purposes of computing this ratio, earnings represent income from continuing operations. Fixed
charges represent interest expense including amounts capitalized plus the interest factor in rental expense and any preferred stock dividend requirements, adjusted to a pretax basis.   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 10
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21.1        Subsidiaries of the Company        

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Incorporated or Organized    
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the Subsidiary is Doing
Business     
 
    A.E. Roberts Company   
      
  MN  
      
  Gi Sanka Holdings, Inc.  

ACN Group IPA of New York, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  ACN Group, Inc.  

ACN Group of California, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
  ACN Group, Inc.  

ACN Group, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

Administration Resource Corporation   
      
  MN  
      
  Gi Sanka Holdings, Inc.  

All Savers Insurance Company   
      
  IN  
      
  Golden Rule Financial Corporation  

American Medical Security Life Insurance Company   
      
  WI  
      
  Golden Rule Financial Corporation  

AmeriChoice Alliance, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
  AmeriChoice Health Services, Inc.  

AmeriChoice Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

AmeriChoice Health Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  AmeriChoice Corporation  

AmeriChoice of New Jersey, Inc.   
      
  NJ  
      
  AmeriChoice Corporation  

AmeriChoice of Pennsylvania, Inc.   
      
  PA  
      
  AmeriChoice Corporation  

Aperture Credentialing, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Arizona Physicians IPA, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
  United HealthCare of Arizona, Inc.  

Arnett Health Plans, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  
      
  Arnett Managed HealthPlans   
 
    Arnett HMO, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
  Arnett Health Plans, Inc.  

Arnett Practice Association, LLC   
      
  IN  
      
  Arnett Health Plans, Inc.  

Behavioral Health Administrators   
      
  CA  
      
  United Behavioral Health  
      
  Behavioral Health Administrators, Inc.   
 
    CareTracker Technologies, Inc.   
      
  MA  
      
  RSB Holdings, Inc.  

ClinPharm International Limited   
      
  UK  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

DBP Services of New York IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.  

DCG Resource Options, LLC   
      
  ME  
      
  National Benefit Resources, Inc.  
      
  Workup, LLC   
 
    Definity Health Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
  Uniprise, Inc.  

Dental Benefit Providers of California, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
  Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.  

Dental Benefit Providers of Illinois, Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
  Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.  

Dental Benefit Providers of Maryland, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.  

Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  
      
    DBP Services     DBP Services, Inc.    
 
    Disability Consulting Group, LLC   
      
  ME  
      
  National Benefit Resources, Inc.  

Distance Learning Network, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  National Benefit Resources, Inc.  
      
    i3CME     OptumHealth Education    
 
    Duncan Printing Services, LLC   
      
  SC  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica  
      
  Ingenix International (Netherlands) BV  

Electronic Network Systems, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Envision Care Alliance Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  

European Health Economics (UK) Ltd.   
      
  UK  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited  

European Health Economics AB   
      
  Sweden  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Sweden) AB  

Evercare Collaborative Solutions, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Lifemark Corporation  

Evercare Hospice, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Lifemark Corporation  
      
    Evercare Hospice     Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care
     Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care of Colorado Springs     Evercare Hospice and Palliative Care of Denver     Evercare Palliative
Care     Evercare Palliative Services     Evercare Palliative Services
of Atlanta     Evercare Palliative Services of Cincinnati     Evercare Palliative Services of Colorado Springs     Evercare Palliative Services Denver     Evercare Palliative Services of Dover     Evercare Palliative Services of Eugene
     Evercare Palliative Services of Houston     Evercare Palliative
Services of Phoenix     Evercare Palliative Services of Portland     Evercare Palliative Services of Salem     Evercare Palliative Services of Tucson     Evercare Palliative Services of Vienna     Evercare Palliative Services of Cleveland    
 
    Evercare of Arizona, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
  Lifemark Corporation  

EverCare of New York, IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  Ovations, Inc.  

Evercare of Texas, L.L.C.   
      
  TX  
      
  Lifemark Corporation  
      
  United Healthcare - Texas   
 
    Exante Financial Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

FHP Reinsurance Limited   
      
  Bermuda  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  

FirstCall, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  HomeCall, Inc.  

Frederick Associates, LLC   
      
  MD  
      
  Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC  

GeoAccess, Inc.   
      
  KS  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Gi Sanka Holdings, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
  Exante Financial Services, Inc.  
      
  Gi Sanka Holdings   
 
    Golden Rule Financial Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

Golden Rule Insurance Company   
      
  IN  
      
  Golden Rule Financial Corporation  

Great Lakes Health Plan, Inc.   
      
  MI  
      
  AmeriChoice Corporation  

H   W Indemnity, Ltd.   
      
  Caymans  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

Health Care Administrators, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
  Arnett Health Plans, Inc.  
      
  Arnett TPA   
 
    HealthAllies, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Uniprise, Inc.  

Healthia Consulting, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Healthia Exchange LLC   
      
  MN  
      
  Healthia Consulting, Inc.  

HomeCall Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC  

1   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Incorporated or Organized    
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the Subsidiary is Doing
Business     
 
    HomeCall, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC  

HWT, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Hygeia Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth International, Inc.  

Hygeia Corporation (Ontario)   
      
  Ontario  
      
  Hygeia Travel Health Holdings Company  

Hygeia Travel Health Holdings Company   
      
  Nova Scotia  
      
  Hygeia Corporation  

i Tres Latin America Costa Rica S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica  
      
  E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.  

i3 Canada, Inc.   
      
  Canada  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services     i3 Research  
  i3 Innovus    
 
    i3 Japan, LLC   
      
  Japan  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

i3 Latin America Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina  
      
  E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.  

i3 Latin America Brasil Servi os de Pesquisa Cl nica Ltda.   
      
  Brazil  
      
  E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.  

i3 Latin America Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile  
      
  E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.  

i3 Latin America Per  S.A.   
      
  Peru  
      
  E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.  

i3 Poland sp z.o.o.   
      
  Poland  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

i3 Research d.o.o. Beograd   
      
  Serbia  
      
  Ingenix International (Netherlands) BV  

i3 Research Limited   
      
  UK  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

IBA Health and Life Assurance Company   
      
  MI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

IBA Self-Funded Group, Inc.   
      
  MI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

Information Network Corporation   
      
  AZ  
      
  AmeriChoice Corporation  

Ingenix Canada Partnership   
      
  Ontario  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

Ingenix Health Intelligence, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix Publishing, Inc.  

Ingenix International (Czech Republic) s.r.o.   
      
  Czech  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix International (Finland) Oy   
      
  Finland  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix International (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

Ingenix International (Italy) S.r.l.   
      
  Italy  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited  

Ingenix International (Netherlands) BV   
      
  Netherlands  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
    i3 Research     i3 Pharma Resourcing    
 
    Ingenix International Hungary Ltd.   
      
  Hungary  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Australia) Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited  
      
    i3 Research     i3 Pharma Resourcing    
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Deutschland) GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (France) SARL   
      
  France  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (RSA) Proprietary Limited   
      
  So. Africa  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited   
      
  UK  
      
  ClinPharm International Limited (UK)  

Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services de Argentina S.R.L.   
      
  Argentina  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  
      
  i3 Research   
 
    Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services Mexico S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  E.C. Investigaciones del Sur S.A.  

Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  
      
    i3 Innovus     i3 Drug Safety     i3 Magnifi     i3 Research    
 
    Ingenix Public Sector Solutions, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Ingenix Publishing, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Ingenix, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  
      
  Reden   Anders   
 
    Innovus Research (U.K.) Limited   
      
  UK  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services (UK) Limited  

Latintrials Uruguay S.R.L.   
      
  Uruguay  
      
  Ingenix International (Netherlands) BV  

Lifemark Corporation   
      
  DE  
      
  Ovations, Inc.  
      
  AmeriChoice   
 
    LighthouseMD, Inc.   
      
  RI  
      
  RSB Holdings, Inc.  

MAMSI Insurance Resources, LLC   
      
  MD  
      
  OneNet PPO, LLC  

MAMSI Life and Health Insurance Company   
      
  MD  
      
  Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC  
      
  MAMSI Life and Health   
 
    Managed Physical Network, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  ACN Group, Inc.  

MD-Individual Practice Association, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Physicians Heath Plan of Maryland, Inc.  

Medical Network, Inc.   
      
  NJ  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  
      
  HealthAtoZ.com   
 
    MediExpress Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia  
      
    United Healthcare International Mauritius Limited   

Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

Midwest Security Administrators, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
  Midwest Security Holding, Inc.  

Midwest Security Care, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

Midwest Security Holding, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

Midwest Security Life Insurance Company   
      
  WI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

MLH Life Trust   
      
  MD  
      
  Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC  

National Benefit Resources, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  
      
    Managed Care Solutions     NBR Insurance
Services    
 
    National Pacific Dental, Inc.   
      
  TX  
      
  PacificDental Benefits, Inc.  

Neighborhood Health Partnership, Inc.   
      
  FL  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  
      
    Neighborhood Health     Neighborhood Health
Partnership     NHP    
 
    Nevada Pacific Dental, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
  PacificDental Benefits, Inc.  

NPD Dental Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  PacificDental Benefits, Inc.  

NPD Insurance Company, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
  NPD Dental Services, Inc.  

Omega Insurance Advisors Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
  UnitedHealthcare India (Private) Limited  

OneNet PPO, LLC   
      
  MD  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

2   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Incorporated or Organized    
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the Subsidiary is Doing
Business     
 
    Optimum Choice, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC  
      
    OCI     OCI Health Plan     OCI Preferred     Optimum Choice     Optimum Choice Health Plan     Optimum Choice Preferred     Optimum Choice Advantage    
 
    OptumHealth Bank, Inc.   
      
  UT  
      
  Exante Financial Services, Inc.  
      
  Exante Bank   
 
    Ovations, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

Oxford Benefit Management, Inc.   
      
  CT  
      
  Oxford Heath Plans LLC  

Oxford Health Insurance, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc.  

Oxford Health Plans (CT), Inc.   
      
  CT  
      
  Oxford Heath Plans LLC  

Oxford Health Plans (NJ), Inc.   
      
  NJ  
      
  Oxford Heath Plans LLC  

Oxford Health Plans (NY), Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  Oxford Heath Plans LLC  

Oxford Heath Plans LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  
      
  The Oxford Agency   
 
    Pacific Pharma Partners Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

Pacific Union Dental, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
  PacificDental Benefits, Inc.  

PacifiCare Behavioral Health of California, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  PacifiCare Behavioral Health, Inc.  
      
  Life Strategies of California   
 
    PacifiCare Behavioral Health, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.  
      
    Life Strategies     PacifiCare Behavioral Health Administrators     PBH    
 
    PacifiCare Dental   
      
  CA  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    Dental Strategies of California     PacifiCare Dental of
California    
 
    PacifiCare Dental of Colorado, Inc.   
      
  CO  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  

PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
  PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.  
      
    Covantage     Dental Strategies     PacifiCare Dental     PacifiCare Dental and Vision     PacifiCare Dental and Vision Administrators     PacifiCare Dental Insurance
Marketing     PacifiCare Insurance Marketing     PacifiCare
Vision    
 
    PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

PacifiCare Insurance Company   
      
  IN  
      
  PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.  

PacifiCare International Limited   
      
  Ireland  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  

PacifiCare Life and Health Insurance Company   
      
  IN  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  

PacifiCare Life Assurance Company   
      
  CO  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  

PacifiCare of Arizona, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of California   
      
  CA  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Colorado, Inc.   
      
  CO  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
  Secure Horizons   
 
    PacifiCare of Nevada, Inc.   
      
  NV  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Oklahoma, Inc.   
      
  OK  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    PacifiCare     PacifiCare Health Options     PacifiCare of Oklahoma     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Oregon, Inc.   
      
  OR  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Texas, Inc.   
      
  TX  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacifiCare of Washington   
      
  WA  
      
  PacifiCare Health Plan Administrators, Inc.  
      
    PacifiCare     Secure Horizons    
 
    PacificDental Benefits, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  
      
  PDS Acquisition Corporation   
 
    Passport Coast-to-Coast LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

Physicians Heath Plan of Maryland, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Mid Atlantic Medical Services, LLC  

ProcessWorks, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

PsychCME, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Red Oak E-Commerce Solutions, Inc.   
      
  VA  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

Rooney Life Insurance Company   
      
  CA  
      
  Golden Rule Financial Corporation  

RSB Holdings, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Ingenix, Inc.  

RxSolutions NY IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  RxSolutions, Inc.  

RxSolutions, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
  PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.  
      
  Prescription Solutions   
 
    Salveo Holding, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.  

Salveo Insurance Company, Ltd.   
      
  Caymans  
      
  Salveo Holding, LLC  

Southwest Michigan Health Network Inc.   
      
  MI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

Special Risk International, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  

Specialized Care Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

Specialty Resource Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United Resource Networks, Inc.  
      
  Specialty Resource Solutions   
 
    Spectera of New York, IPA, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  

Spectera, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  
      
    CARE Programs, a division of Spectera, Inc. Employee Vision Services, Inc.     Oklahoma Employees Benefits Services     Spectera     United Optical     United Optical, Inc.    
 
    Statprobe, Inc.   
      
  MI  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

3   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Incorporated or Organized    
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the Subsidiary is Doing
Business     
 
    The Lewin Group, Inc.   
      
  NC  
      
  Ingenix Public Sector Solutions, Inc.  

U.S. Behavioral Health Plan, California   
      
  CA  
      
  United Behavioral Health  

UHC International Services, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

UHIC Holdings, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

Unimerica Insurance Company   
      
  WI  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  
      
  Unimerica Life Insurance Company   
 
    Unimerica Life Insurance Company of New York   
      
  NY  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

Union Health Solutions, Inc.   
      
  CA  
      
  PacifiCare Health Systems, LLC.  

Uniprise, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

United Behavioral Health   
      
  CA  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  
      
    United Behavioral Health (Inc.)     United Behavioral
Health, Inc.    
 
    United Behavioral Health of New York, I.P.A., Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  United Behavioral Health  

United Health Connect Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia  
      
    UnitedHealthcare International Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   

United Health Foundation   
      
  MN  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  
      
  United Health Hospice Foundation   
 
    United HealthCare (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland  
      
  Uniprise, Inc.  

United Healthcare India (Private) Limited   
      
  India  
      
    United Healthcare International Mauritius Limited   

United HealthCare Insurance Company   
      
  CT  
      
  UHIC Holdings, Inc.  

United HealthCare Insurance Company of Illinois   
      
  IL  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

United HealthCare Insurance Company of New York   
      
  NY  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

United HealthCare Insurance Company of Ohio   
      
  OH  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

United Healthcare International Mauritius Limited   
      
  Mauritius  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

United HealthCare of Alabama, Inc.   
      
  AL  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Arizona, Inc.   
      
  AZ  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Arkansas, Inc.   
      
  AR  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  
      
  Complete Health   
 
    United HealthCare of Colorado, Inc.   
      
  CO  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  
      
  MetraHealth Care Plan   
 
    United HealthCare of Florida, Inc.   
      
  FL  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Georgia, Inc.   
      
  GA  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  
      
  United HealthCare of Georgia   
 
    United HealthCare of Kentucky, Ltd.   
      
  KY  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Louisiana, Inc.   
      
  LA  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Mississippi, Inc.   
      
  MS  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Ohio, Inc.   
      
  OH  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Tennessee, Inc.   
      
  TN  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Texas, Inc.   
      
  TX  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  
      
  UnitedHealthcare   
 
    United HealthCare of the Midlands, Inc.   
      
  NE  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of the Midwest, Inc.   
      
  MO  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare of Utah   
      
  UT  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United HealthCare Products, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  
      
    AARP Health Care Options Pharmacy Services     AARP Pharmacy
Services     FirstLine Medical     UnitedHealth
Products    
 
    United HealthCare Service LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

United HealthCare Services, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  
      
    AmeriChoice     Center for Health Care Policy and Evaluation
     Charter HealthCare, Inc.     Evercare     Health Professionals Review     HealthCare Evaluation Services     Healthmarc     HealthPro     Managed Care for the Aged     Optum     Personal Decision Services     UHC Management     UHC Management Company     UHC Management Company, Inc.     UHC of Missouri     UMC Management Company, Inc.     Unimerica Workplace Benefits     United Health Products     United HealthCare Corporation     United HealthCare, Inc.     United HealthCare Management     United HealthCare Management Company,
Inc.     United HealthCare Management Services     United HealthCare of
Missouri     United HealthCare Services of Minnesota     United
HealthCare Services of Minnesota, Inc.     United Resource Networks     United Resource Networks, Inc.    
 
    United Medical Resources, Inc.   
      
  OH  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

United Resource Networks IPA of New York, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  United Resource Networks, Inc.  

United Resource Networks, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  Specialized Care Services, Inc.  

UnitedHealth Advisors, LLC   
      
  ME  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

UnitedHealth Capital, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

UnitedHealth Cares, Inc.   
      
  MN  
      
  AmeriChoice Corporation  

4   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Incorporated or Organized    
      
     Direct Parent Company of the Subsidiary    
      
     Additional Names under which the Subsidiary is Doing
Business     
 
    UnitedHealth Europe Limited   
      
  UK  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

UnitedHealth Group Information Services Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
  United Healthcare International Mauritius Limited  

UnitedHealth Group International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

UnitedHealth International, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

UnitedHealth Primary Care Limited   
      
  UK  
      
  UnitedHealth Europe Limited  

UnitedHealth Primary Care Plus Limited   
      
  UK  
      
  UnitedHealth Europe Limited  

UnitedHealthcare Alliance LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Insurance Company  

UnitedHealthcare Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
  UnitedHealthcare International Asia, LLC  

UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company of the River Valley   
      
  IL  
      
  UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.  

UnitedHealthcare International Asia, LLC   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealth Group Incorporated  

UnitedHealthcare International Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia  
      
  UnitedHealthcare International Asia, LLC  

UnitedHealthcare of Illinois, Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

UnitedHealthcare of New England, Inc.   
      
  RI  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  
      
  Ocean State Physicians Health Plan   
 
    UnitedHealthcare of New York, Inc.   
      
  NY  
      
  AmeriChoice Corporation  
      
  Healthcare AmeriChoice   
 
    UnitedHealthcare of North Carolina, Inc.   
      
  NC  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

UnitedHealthcare of the Mid-Atlantic, Inc.   
      
  MD  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

UnitedHealthcare of Wisconsin, Inc.   
      
  WI  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

UnitedHealthcare Plan of the River Valley, Inc.   
      
  IL  
      
  UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.  

UnitedHealthcare Services Company of the River Valley, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  UnitedHealthcare, Inc.  

UnitedHealthcare, Inc.   
      
  DE  
      
  United HealthCare Services, Inc.  

UnitedHealthOne Agency, Inc.   
      
  IN  
      
  Golden Rule Financial Corporation  

WorkComp.Net, LLC   
      
  IA  
      
  Red Oak E-Commerce Solutions, Inc.  

Worldwide Clinical Trials, SL   
      
  Spain  
      
  Ingenix Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.  

5   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
Statement File Nos. 33-50282, 33-59083, 33-59623, 33-67918, 33-75846, 333-04875, 333-06533, 333-25923, 333-50461, 333-81337, 333-87243, 333-88506, 333-90247, 333-46284, 333-55666, 333-100027, 333-105877, 333-117769, 333-118050, 333-123306,
333-127610, 333-130547, 333-148337, 333-148338, and 333-149031 of our report dated February 21, 2008, relating to the consolidated financial statements of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and the effectiveness of UnitedHealth Group
Incorporated s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2007.       /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP       Minneapolis, MN      February 21, 2008   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 12
 dex241.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1        POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below hereby
constitutes and appoints Thomas L. Strickland, Christopher J. Walsh and Dannette L. Smith, and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or
her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done in and about the premises, as
fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.       

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certifications Pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE        SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002        Certification of Principal Executive Officer       I,
Stephen J. Hemsley, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

February 21, 2008  
      
    /S/    STEPHEN J.
HEMSLEY            

Stephen J. Hemsley       Chief Executive Officer and President     

Certification of Principal Financial Officer       I, George L. Mikan III, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

February 21, 2008  
      
    /S/    GEORGE L. MIKAN
III            

George L. Mikan III       Executive Vice President and       Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certifications Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002        Certification of Principal Executive Officer       In connection with the Annual Report of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Stephen J. Hemsley, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

February 21, 2008   
     
    /S/    STEPHEN J. HEMSLEY    

Stephen J. Hemsley       President and Chief Executive Officer     
     Certification of Principal Financial Officer       In connection with the Annual Report of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, George L. Mikan III, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

February 21, 2008   
     
    /S/    GEORGE L. MIKAN III    

George L. Mikan III       Executive Vice President and       Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-32.1>

