<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100205_10-K_edgar_data_87347_0001193125-10-023041_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5407405</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>219084</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>239045</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1182857</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1661205</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1738769</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>87</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-023041.hdr.sgml : 20100205
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100205123159
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-023041
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100205
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100205

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHLUMBERGER LTD /NV/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000087347
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL, GAS FIELD SERVICES, NBC [1389]
		IRS NUMBER:				520684746
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			P8
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04601
		FILM NUMBER:		10576400

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7135132000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER NV
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920804

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880812

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ReVuOFu1+A2fYT5YTc2Nc93WQIbcHEq/7dH72WiRCEZpAXL3c4QPumukHkPSoDyn
 UJkw73DIJ1Cj1BIS0rsLVQ==

 0001193125-10-023041.txt : 20100205

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009

Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549             Form 10-K              (Mark One)          
           For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009              OR          
           For the transition period from
               to                              Commission File Number 1-4601              Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited)        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        
  
          Registrant s telephone number in the United States, including area code, is:       (713) 513-2000             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:         

Title of each class     

Name of each exchange on which registered      
 
  Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
        
    New York Stock Exchange     Euronext Paris     The London Stock Exchange     SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd.              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:       None
            Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES      NO                  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES        NO                Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES      NO                  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web
site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files. YES      NO                  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       
     Large accelerated filer       Accelerated filer         Non-accelerated filer         Smaller reporting company                  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). YES        NO                As of June 30, 2009, the aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $64.7
billion.            As of January 31,
2010, the number of shares of common stock outstanding was 1,196,589,089.             DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE             Portions of the following document have been incorporated herein by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K to the extent described therein: the definitive proxy statement relating to
Schlumberger s 2010 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders ( 2010 Proxy Statement ).          

Table of Contents  

                  SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED            Table of Contents             Form 10-K          

Page      
 
      PART I     

Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  3   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  6   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  10   
 
    Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  10   
 
    Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  10   
 
    Item 4.   
      
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  10   

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  12   
 
    Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  15   
 
    Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  17   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  33   
 
    Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  35   
 
    Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  71   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  71   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  71   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger   
      
  72   
 
    Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  72   
 
    Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  72   
 
    Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  73   
 
    Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
      
  73   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  74   

Signatures   
      
  75   

Certifications   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1                     PART I
              Item 1.    Business.
            All references in this report to  Registrant, 
 Company,   Schlumberger,   we  or  our  are to Schlumberger Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries.      Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production
industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, the company today provides the industry s widest range of products and services from exploration through production. As of
December 31, 2009, the Company employed approximately 77,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger has principal executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague, and consists of two business
segments   Schlumberger Oilfield Services and WesternGeco. Schlumberger Oilfield Services provides the industry s widest range of products and services from exploration to production, while WesternGeco is the world s most
technologically advanced surface seismic acquisition and processing company.             Schlumberger Oilfield Services  operates in each of the major oilfield service markets, managing its business through its GeoMarket* regions, which are grouped into four geographic areas: North
America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East   Asia. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and brings together geographically focused teams to meet local
needs and deliver customized solutions. Within this business structure, Schlumberger Oilfield Services products and services are developed by a number of technology-based product lines, or Technologies, to capitalize on technical synergies. These
products and services cover the entire life cycle of the reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger Oilfield Services holds leading positions. The Technologies are also responsible for overseeing operational processes,
resource allocation, personnel, and quality, health, safety and environmental matters in the GeoMarkets.            The Technologies are:         

Wireline   provides the information necessary to evaluate the subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to
monitor and evaluate well production. Wireline offers both open-hole and cased-hole services.            

Drilling   Measurements   supplies directional-drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services for all well
profiles.            

Testing Services   provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. The
Technology also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services.            

Well Services   provides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production
throughout the life of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities. The Technology also develops coiled-tubing equipment and services.            

Completions   supplies well completion services and equipment that include gas-lift and safety valves as well as a range of intelligent well
completions technology and equipment.            

Artificial Lift   provides production optimization services using electrical submersible pumps and associated equipment.
           
   3   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1                

Data   Consulting Services   supplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert
consulting services for reservoir characterization, production enhancement, field development planning and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions.            

Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS)   provides consulting, software, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core
oil and gas industry operational processes.               Supporting the Technologies are 22 research and engineering centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding
and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.      Schlumberger Oilfield Services also offers customers its services through a business model known as Integrated Project Management (IPM). IPM combines the required services and products of the Technologies
with drilling rig management expertise and project management skills to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. IPM projects are typically of multi-year duration and include start-up costs and significant
third-party components that cover services that Schlumberger does not provide directly. Some projects may be fixed price in nature and may contain penalties for non-performance.      Schlumberger Oilfield Services uses its own personnel to market its services and products. The customer base, business risks and
opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers, and the labor force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service,
and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are numerous competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry
leader in providing wireline logging, well testing, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling and directional-drilling services, as well as fully computerized logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large proportion of
Schlumberger offerings are non-rig related; consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate to rig count fluctuations.      Schlumberger is a 40% owner in M-I SWACO   a joint venture with Smith International, Inc.   which offers the drilling and completion fluids used to stabilize subsurface rock strata during the drilling process and minimize
formation damage during completion and workover operations.             WesternGeco , the world s most technologically advanced surface seismic company, provides comprehensive reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services with the most extensive seismic crews and data processing centers in
the industry as well as a leading multiclient seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D) seismic surveys to multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir management. WesternGeco benefits from full access to
the Schlumberger research, development and technology organization and shares similar business risks, opportunities for growth, principal methods of competition and means of marketing as Schlumberger Oilfield Services. Seismic solutions include
proprietary Q* technology for enhanced reservoir description, characterization and monitoring throughout the life of the field   from exploration through enhanced recovery. Other WesternGeco solutions include development of controlled-source
electromagnetic and magneto-telluric surveys and their integration with seismic data.      Positioned for meeting a full range of
customer needs in land, marine and shallow-water transition-zone services, WesternGeco offers a wide scope of technologies and services:         

Land Seismic   provides comprehensive resources for seismic data acquisition on land and across shallow-water transition zones.

Marine Seismic   provides industry-standard marine seismic acquisition and processing systems as well as a unique industry-leading, fully
calibrated single-sensor marine seismic system that delivers the seismic technology needed for new-generation reservoir management.            
   4   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1                

Multiclient Services   supplies high-quality seismic data from the multiclient library, including industry-leading Q technology data.

Reservoir Services   provides people, tools and technology to help customers capture the benefits of a completely integrated approach to locating,
defining and monitoring the reservoir.            

Data Processing   offers extensive seismic data processing centers for complex data processing projects.            

Electromagnetics   provides controlled-source electromagnetic and magneto-telluric data acquisition and processing.      
          Acquisitions              Information about acquisitions made by
Schlumberger appears in Note 4 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .             GENERAL               Research Centers              Research to support the engineering and development efforts of Schlumberger
activities is principally conducted at Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States; Cambridge, England; Stavanger, Norway; Moscow, Russia; and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.              Patents              While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is considered material
to Schlumberger s business.              Seasonality              Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect delivery of
oilfield services, the widespread geographic location of such services precludes the overall business from being characterized as seasonal.              Customers and Backlog of Orders              No single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Oilfield Services has no significant backlog due to the nature of its business. The WesternGeco
backlog, which is based on signed contracts with customers, was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 ($1.8 billion at December 31, 2008).              Employees              As of December 31, 2009, Schlumberger had approximately 77,000 employees.              Financial Information              Financial information by business segment for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 is provided in Note 18 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .              Available Information              The Schlumberger Internet website is  www.slb.com . Schlumberger uses it s Investor Relations website,  www.slb.com/ir , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst
presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations website at  www.slb.com/ir  access to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports
        
   5   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1, 1A         
        
on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC s Internet website at  www.sec.gov .      Schlumberger s corporate governance materials, including Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics,
may also be found at  www.slb.com/ir . From time to time, corporate governance materials on our website may be updated to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) or as desirable to promote the
effective governance of Schlumberger.      Any stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of
Schlumberger s SEC filings should write to the Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17   th    Floor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.      Schlumberger has filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K.      The information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Report and should not be considered part of this
Report or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.       
        Item 1A.    Risk Factors.             The following discussion of risk factors contains  forward-looking statements  which are discussed immediately
following Item 7A of this Form 10-K. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K.             We urge you to carefully consider the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the SEC and the other information
included or incorporated by reference in Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially
adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also
materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.              Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. Our customers  capital expenditures may decline in 2010 and beyond if
current global economic conditions continue or worsen. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.             The current global economic downturn has reduced worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and resulted in significantly lower
crude oil and natural gas prices compared to their record highs in July 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the global economic downturn will continue, or to what extent this will continue to affect us. The significant decline in oil and
natural gas prices reduced many of our customers  activities and spending on our services and products in 2009; this reduction in our customers  activities and spending could continue through 2010 and beyond. Demand for the majority of our
services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are sensitive to the industry s view of future economic
growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. The worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets, which began in the second half of 2008, resulted in diminished demand for oil and gas and significantly lower oil and
natural gas prices. This caused many of our customers to reduce or delay their oil and gas exploration and production spending in 2009, which consequently reduced the demand for our services, and exerted downward pressure on the prices of our
services and products. If the economic downturn
        
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1A                  
continues for a prolonged period or if there is little or no economic growth, it will likely result in further reductions of exploration and production expenditures by our customers, causing
further declines in the demand for, and prices of, our services and products. This could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.      The reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with the reduced
availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing, could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions,
and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.      The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors, including:         

demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates and general economic and business conditions;

the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) to set and maintain production levels for oil;

oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries;            

the level of excess production capacity;            

political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest;            

the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity;            

the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;            

technological advances affecting energy consumption; and            

weather conditions.                A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the
approximately 80 countries in which we operate.             Our
non-United States operations accounted for approximately 84% of our consolidated revenue in 2009, 78% in 2008 and 76% in 2007. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks, including:         

unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas;            

exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions;            

social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;            

confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;          

deprivation of contract rights;            

trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries;            

restrictions under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar legislation in other countries;            

restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;          

currency exchange controls;            

inflation; and            

currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations.          
  
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1A                  In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our
operations in countries, including Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba, which are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. United States law enforcement authorities are
currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these countries.      If any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available
for operations.      We are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain US state
divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.             Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and
cash available for operations.             We are subject to increasingly
stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We
incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement.
These laws may provide for  strict liability  for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party.
Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances.      We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material
liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of
existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that
could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations.         
   We could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  
           Certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such
as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. An
accident or a failure of a product could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for some kinds of events,
including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Substantial claims made
under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. Any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1A                   If we are unable to maintain technology leadership in the form of services
and products, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold.             If we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.             Limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold.             Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide
them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our
technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our
trade secrets.             We may be subject to litigation if another
party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights.             The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in
significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available we might not be able to
continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs.             Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our
operations.             We require highly skilled personnel to operate
and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain
qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations.             Severe weather conditions may affect our operations.             Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition, if particularly severe
weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
        
   9   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1B, 2, 3, 4                      Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.             None.               Item 2.    Properties.             Schlumberger owns or leases manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data
processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. No significant lease is scheduled to terminate in the near future, and we believe comparable space is readily obtainable should any lease expire without renewal. We believe our
properties are generally well maintained and adequate for their intended use.      Outside the United States the principal owned or
leased facilities of Oilfield Services are located in Beijing, China; Clamart and Abbeville, France; Fuchinobe, Japan; Oslo, Norway; Singapore; Abingdon, Cambridge and Stonehouse, United Kingdom; and Novosibirsk, Russia.      Within the United States, the principal owned or leased facilities of Oilfield Services are located in Boston, Massachusetts; Houston,
Rosharon, and Sugar Land, Texas; and Lawrence, Kansas.      The principal owned or leased facilities of WesternGeco are located in
Bergen and Oslo, Norway; Gatwick, United Kingdom; Houston, Texas, United States; and Mumbai, India.               Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.             The information with respect to this Item 3 is set forth in Note 17 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .
              Item 4.    Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.             No matters were
submitted to a vote of Schlumberger s security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 4                    Executive Officers of Schlumberger             The following table sets forth, as of January 31, 2010, the names and ages
of the executive officers of Schlumberger, including all offices and positions held by each for at least the past five years.         
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 5                     PART II

Item 5.   
     
   Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.               As of January 31, 2010, there were 1,196,589,089 shares of common stock of
Schlumberger outstanding, exclusive of 137,623,075 shares held in treasury, and approximately 21,151 stockholders of record. The principal United States market for Schlumberger s common stock is the NYSE, where it is traded under the symbol
 SLB .      Schlumberger s common stock is also traded on the Euronext Paris, Euronext Amsterdam, London and SIX
Swiss stock exchanges.              Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends
Declared per Share              Quarterly high and low prices for
Schlumberger s common stock as reported by the NYSE (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2009 and 2008, were:         
          There are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. Under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to
any Netherlands Antilles withholding or other Netherlands Antilles taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares.      The
following graph compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total stockholder return on Schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of Schlumberger, with the
cumulative total return on the Standard   Poor s 500 Index (S P 500 Index) and the cumulative total return on both the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX) and the Value Line Oilfield Services Industry Index over the five-year
period ending on December 31, 2009. Schlumberger is using the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX) to replace the Value Line Oilfield Services Industry Index used in prior years. Schlumberger determined that the new index includes a greater
concentration of our most direct competitors. The stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. The following graph and related information shall not be deemed  soliciting material  or to be
 filed  with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that Schlumberger specifically incorporates
it by reference into such filing.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 5                   COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE
TOTAL RETURN AMONG      SCHLUMBERGER COMMON STOCK, THE S P 500 INDEX, THE      PHILADELPHIA OIL SERVICE INDEX (OSX) AND THE VALUE LINE      OILFIELD SERVICES INDUSTRY INDEX           

            Assumes $100 invested on
December 31, 2004 in Schlumberger common stock, in the S P 500 Index, in the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX), and in the Value Line Oilfield Services Industry Index. Reflects reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of
payment.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 5                    Share Repurchases             On April 17, 2008, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved an $8
billion share repurchase program for Schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market before December 31, 2011.      Schlumberger s common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was as follows:         
          In
connection with the exercise of stock options under Schlumberger s incentive compensation plans, Schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options.
Schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this Item 5 as the number of shares of Schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material.              Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities              None.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 6                      Item 6.    Selected Financial Data.             The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
and  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  of this Form 10-K:         
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 6                

1.  
     
  Excludes amounts which are included in the segments.     

2.  
     
  For details of Charges and Credits and the related income taxes and noncontrolling interests, see Note 3 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements. 

3.  
     
  Amounts may not add due to rounding.     

4.  
     
   Net Debt  represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides
useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.           
   16   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                      Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.        
     The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans,
strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and resources. Such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  of this Report.             Executive Overview             As 2009 progressed, oil prices recovered gradually from levels under $40 per barrel at the beginning of the year to over $70
per barrel by year-end. The large drop in oil demand in 2009 that resulted from the global economic recession, together with increased production capacity in spite of significant delays in new development projects, led to spare oil production
capacity reaching its highest level in nearly two decades. However, the decisions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) at the end of 2008 to cut production, the adherence of the majority of OPEC countries to production quotas,
and the improving economic outlook contributed to rising prices with stabilization at current levels. During 2009, the demand forecasts of the major energy organizations evolved with economic projections falling to a low of nearly 83 million
barrels of oil per day (BOPD) in May, then increasing gradually by 1.5 million BOPD toward the end of the year. The final forecast figure of 84.4 million BOPD represented the second consecutive year-on-year drop in oil demand for the first
time in 25 years. For 2010, economic projections for world real GDP growth are converging towards a median estimate of 3%, but with a significant level of uncertainty. A large gap exists between GDP growth rates of Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) and non-OECD countries   particularly in China and in other developing Asian economies. Overall OECD country demand will remain at its lowest level in over a decade, but this will be compensated by growth in
China, South East Asia and the Middle East. From a supply standpoint, the level of uncertainty in oil demand and oil prices led E P customers to cut investment in 2009   particularly in projects with the highest production costs   but
forecasts published at the end of the year indicated a likely rise in investment in 2010.      The natural gas markets behaved
differently from oil markets in 2009. The combination of the drop in gas demand that resulted from reduced industrial activity; the rise in production of unconventional gas resources in North America; and the commissioning of a number of new large
LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) exporting facilities around the world contributed to an over-supplied market with consequent pressure on spot gas prices. On a per-British Thermal Unit basis, the ratio of oil to Henry Hub gas prices increased to its
highest level in the last four decades, threatening the linkage mechanisms in future long-term supply contracts. Within the United States, the world s largest natural gas market, and despite some fuel switching in power generation from coal to
gas and lower Canadian gas imports, natural gas storage levels have been significantly above the five-year range consistently since April 2009. Consequently, natural gas wellhead prices have reached their lowest levels since 2002. This has
translated into the largest sustained drop in gas-related drilling and service activity since the 2001-2002 period. Nevertheless, the technological success associated with production from unconventional gas reservoirs in the United States is leading
to an increasing level of interest in similar formations outside North America, particularly in Europe, which could lead to an expansion in activity when natural gas prices rebound.      Within this market, Schlumberger Oilfield Services full-year revenue in 2009 declined 16% versus 2008, falling to $20.52 billion. Lower
natural gas prices and unfavorable market fundamentals led to a 37% decline in North America revenue, primarily in the US Land and Canada GeoMarkets. Europe/CIS/Africa revenue fell 13% mainly due to the weakening of local currencies against the US
dollar and reduced activity in the Russia, North Sea, West   South Africa and Caspian GeoMarkets as well as at Framo Engineering. This decline however was partially offset by increased activity in the North Africa GeoMarket. Middle
East   Asia revenue dropped 9% primarily due to decreases in the East Asia, East Mediterranean, Arabian and Australia/Papua New Guinea GeoMarkets. Latin America revenue was only marginally lower than last year as the impact of the
weakening of
        
   17   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   
local currencies against the US dollar and much lower activity in Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago and Peru/ Colombia/Ecuador was nearly offset by stronger activity in Mexico/Central America
and Brazil. Weakening of local currencies against the US dollar reduced 2009 revenue by approximately 4%. Across the Areas, all of the Technologies recorded revenue declines except Testing Services. IPM recorded revenue growth
compared to 2008.      While customers spent less on new technology in 2009 versus the previous year, a number of recently
introduced Schlumberger services made further market progress. PowerDrive* family rotary-steerable drilling systems extended their market reach, entering new markets in the North and Latin America. Scanner Family* services for advanced formation
evaluation saw success in Mexico and Canada, and Well Services recorded market penetration in Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi and Malaysia with the range of ACTive* real-time coiled-tubing services that improve operating efficiency and well performance
through the innovative use of fiber-optic cable to convey downhole information to the surface.      Investment in Oilfield Services
infrastructure continued throughout the year. Significant events included the opening of a new reservoir completions manufacturing center in Damman, Saudi Arabia. Representing an investment of $25 million, the center houses a team of design and
manufacturing engineers specialized in the production of downhole reservoir completions equipment. The center also provides a collaborative environment in which joint oil company and Schlumberger teams can develop and manufacture completions
solutions for application across Saudi Arabia and the Middle East. In Brazil, we announced the signing of a joint cooperation agreement with the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro to build a key international research center on the
university s campus. This new center will focus on research and development activities in the deepwater subsalt environment, with emphasis on the development of geosciences software for the exploration and production sector; new technologies to
meet reservoir challenges in subsalt environments; and the creation of a geophysical processing and interpretation Center of Excellence covering time-lapse seismic and combined electromagnetic and seismic measurements.      A number of technology agreements and acquisitions were completed during the year to enable future product development or
improve geographical reach. In May, Schlumberger acquired Techsia SA, a supplier of petrophysical software based in Montpellier, France. Techsia will become the Schlumberger Petrophysics Software Center of Excellence for the development of
state-of-the-art solutions for the oil and gas exploration and production industry. In September, Schlumberger and National Oilwell Varco announced the creation of a joint venture to provide high-speed drill string telemetry systems to improve the
efficiency and safety of oil and gas operations. The venture is expected to accelerate development and delivery of intelligent drilling solutions through the expanded use of the IntelliServ      Broadband Network, a patented technology that provides high resolution data in real time to and from the bottom of oil and gas wells as they are being drilled. In
November, Schlumberger acquired Lonkar Services   a company providing slickline, cased-hole wireline and surface well testing services in Western Canada and Northern USA. Also in November Schlumberger signed a global cooperation agreement with
Technip to jointly develop subsea integrity and surveillance solutions for the flexible pipes used in deep offshore oil and gas production. This agreement will initially focus on surveillance systems activities for new and challenging flexible pipe
applications such as those required in the deepwater subsalt environment in Brazil.      Full-year 2009 revenue of WesternGeco was,
at $2.12 billion, 25% lower than 2008. Revenue decreased across all product lines, with the largest declines seen in Marine and Multiclient activity. Marine revenue fell on lower activity combined with reduced pricing as a result of weak
market conditions. Multiclient revenue decreased primarily in North America, as customers continued to reduce discretionary spending. Land revenue fell on lower crew utilization, while Data Processing revenue decreased reflecting lower activity
primarily in Europe/Africa and in North America.      Towards the end of the year, WesternGeco announced the deployment of the
next-generation UniQ* integrated point-receiver land seismic acquisition and processing system in Kuwait for the Kuwait Oil Company. The new system, designed for greater operational efficiency and flexibility, offers up to four times
        
   18   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   
the capability of existing Q-Land* systems and is currently acquiring data from 53,000 live point-receiver channels in conjunction with the WesternGeco DX-80* Desert Explorer with MD Sweep*
technology introduced the previous year.      The outlook for 2010 remains largely dependent on the prospects for the general
economy. At the end of the third quarter of 2009, we indicated that we were encouraged that signs were emerging that demand for oil and gas would begin to increase. Consensus forecasts now predict that oil demand in 2010 will increase, particularly
in the developing world, for the first time since 2007.      As a result we feel that oil prices are likely to be sustained at
current levels and that as our customers  confidence grows, their exploration and production budgets will increase. We feel that considerable leverage to increase investment exists in offshore markets, in Russia, as well as in certain emerging
investment opportunities such as Iraq. These events will be dependent on continued increases in economic growth in the second half of the year beyond the current government stimulus packages.      For natural gas activity we remain a great deal more cautious. Despite signs of some recovery in industrial demand as well as the recent cold
weather, we consider that markets remain generally oversupplied. Increased LNG flows together with further capacity being added in 2010, as well as the general uncertainty over the decline rates of unconventional gas production, have the potential
to limit the current increase in the North American gas drilling rig count.      We anticipate that 2010 will be a better year for
multiclient seismic, and for activity in land seismic particularly in Middle East and North Africa. While Marine activity is expected to be reasonably robust, pricing improvements will be limited due to continued new capacity additions.   
  Longer term we remain confident that considerably increased spending will be necessary to maintain sufficient reserves and production of
hydrocarbons to meet the world s needs. Our technology portfolio and worldwide infrastructure mean we are strongly positioned to capture growth opportunities as our customers begin to increase their investment.      The following discussion and analysis of results of operations should be read in conjunction with the  Consolidated Financial
Statements .             Fourth Quarter 2009 Results          
          Pretax operating income represents the segments  income before taxes and noncontrolling interests. The pretax operating income excludes
such items as corporate expenses and interest income and interest expense not allocated to the segments as well as the charges described in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements , interest on postretirement medical benefits
and stock-based compensation costs.      Fourth-quarter revenue was $5.74 billion versus $5.43 billion in the third quarter of
2009. Income from continuing operations attributable to Schlumberger was $817 million   an increase of 4% sequentially.      Oilfield Services fourth-quarter revenue of $5.17 billion was up 4% compared to the third quarter of 2009. Sequential pretax segment operating income of $1.01 billion was down 3%.      WesternGeco fourth-quarter revenue of $549 million was up 19% sequentially. Fourth-quarter pretax segment operating income of $115 million
was up 89% compared to the third quarter of 2009.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                     Oilfield Services              Fourth-quarter revenue of $5.17 billion increased 4% sequentially, with all
Areas, except Europe/CIS/Africa, contributing to the improvement. Sequential growth was driven by increased deepwater and exploration-related activity leading to demand for Wireline, Testing Services and Drilling   Measurements
technologies, while growth was also recorded on land in North America, primarily from increased Well Services activity. In addition, seasonal year-end strength was seen in software and product sales in a number of GeoMarkets   in particular for
SIS software and Artificial Lift products. These increases, however, were partially offset by lower activity in Russia and in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket.     Fourth-quarter pretax operating income of $1.01 billion was down 3% sequentially. Pretax operating margin decreased 157 basis points (bps) sequentially to 19.5% primarily due to lower activity coupled
with a less favorable revenue mix in Russia and in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket. Pricing concessions made earlier in the year also contributed to the sequential decrease in margins.             North America             Fourth-quarter revenue of $873 million was 6% higher sequentially. Pretax operating income of $18.0 million was down 35%
sequentially.      Sequentially, US Land GeoMarket revenue grew on increased drilling activity, the impact of which was partially
diluted by lower pricing for Well Services technologies. US Gulf of Mexico GeoMarket revenue was up marginally as improved shelf activity and the beginning of a build-up in deepwater activity were hampered by downtime associated with Hurricane Ida
as well as by some pricing pressure. Canada revenue was flat while Alaska GeoMarket revenue fell sequentially due to a slowdown in activity resulting from operator budget constraints.      Pretax operating margin decreased 129 bps sequentially to 2.1% as the increased activity in the US Land and Gulf of Mexico GeoMarkets was
insufficient to offset the impact of a less favorable revenue mix in Canada and lower activity in the Alaska GeoMarket.             Latin America             Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.13 billion increased 5% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $178 million was down 9% sequentially.      Sequentially, Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket revenue grew primarily on greater demand for Drilling   Measurements, Wireline and
Testing Services technologies resulting from increased drilling activity. Higher SIS software and Artificial Lift product sales also contributed to this growth. Brazil revenue was higher due to increased offshore exploration activity as well as to
SIS software and Completions product sales. Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago GeoMarket recorded growth mainly from Integrated Project Management (IPM) activity while Argentina/Bolivia/Chile revenue was higher due to increased activity and SIS
product sales. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in Mexico/Central America revenue as a result of reduced activity.      Pretax operating margin decreased 254 bps sequentially to 15.8% primarily as the result of the reduced activity and a less favorable revenue mix in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket, which was only partly offset by the impact of
increased activity and software and product sales in the rest of the Area.             Europe/CIS/Africa             Fourth-quarter revenue of
$1.78 billion was flat sequentially. Pretax operating income of $385 million was down 9% sequentially.      Sequentially,
Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea GeoMarket revenue grew as the result of strong Testing Services product sales and an increase in exploration activity that led to greater demand for Wireline services. In the West   South Africa GeoMarket
revenue increased on high demand for Drilling   Measurements services. The
        
   20   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   
North Sea GeoMarket also recorded growth from increased Well Services stimulation activity while Libya GeoMarket revenue increased on higher deepwater Testing Services and Wireline exploration
activity. These increases, however, were partially offset by lower revenue in Russia as a result of client budgetary constraints which mainly affected IPM activity. Revenue was also lower in the North Africa GeoMarket on reduced Testing Services
product sales and in the Caspian GeoMarket on the completion of drilling campaigns.      Pretax operating margin decreased 208 bps
sequentially to 21.6% largely as the result of the lower activity in Russia.             Middle East   Asia             Fourth-quarter
revenue of $1.31 billion increased 7% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $426 million was 9% higher sequentially.      Sequentially, revenue growth was driven by an increase in deepwater and exploration-related activity that led to strong demand for Wireline services. Seasonal year-end SIS software and Artificial Lift product sales also contributed to the
increase in revenue.      Pretax operating margin improved 66 bps sequentially to 32.4% primarily as the result of the more
favorable mix of deepwater and exploration-related activity in addition to year-end SIS software sales.              WesternGeco              Fourth-quarter revenue of $549 million increased 19% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $115 million increased 89% sequentially.      Sequential revenue growth was led by Multiclient which recorded strong year-end sales of wide-azimuth surveys in the US Gulf of Mexico. Land revenue also grew due to increased activity in the Middle East
and North Africa. These increases, however, were partially offset by a significant decrease in Marine as the result of weaker pricing, project start-up delays and vessel transits.      Pretax operating margin improved 776 bps sequentially to 20.9% primarily as a result of the high Multiclient sales that were partially offset
by the impact of the lower pricing and project delays in Marine.             Full-Year 2009 Results          
            Oilfield Services              Full-year 2009 revenue of $20.52 billion declined 16% versus 2008. Lower natural gas prices and unfavorable market fundamentals resulted in a
37% decline in North America revenue, primarily in the US Land and Canada GeoMarkets. Europe/CIS/Africa revenue decreased 13% mainly due to the weakening of local currencies against the US dollar and reduced activity in the Russia, North Sea,
West   South Africa and Caspian GeoMarkets as well as in Framo, which was partially offset by increased activity in the North Africa GeoMarket. Middle East   Asia revenue also fell by 9% primarily due to decreases in the East Asia,
East Mediterranean, Arabian and Australia/Papua New Guinea GeoMarkets. Latin America revenue was only marginally lower than last year as the impact of the weakening of local currencies against the US dollar and
        
   21   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   
much lower activity in Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago and Peru/Colombia/Ecuador were nearly offset by stronger activity in Mexico/Central America and Brazil. Weakening of local currencies
against the US dollar reduced 2009 revenue by approximately 4%. Across the Areas, all of the Technologies recorded revenue declines except Testing Services. IPM recorded revenue growth compared to the same period last year.      Full-year 2009 pretax operating margin decreased 5.7 percentage points to 21.1%, on the significant drop in activity and pricing pressure
experienced across all the Areas, but most notably in North America.             North America             Revenue of $3.71 billion was 37%
lower than last year with reductions across the entire Area. The decreases were highest in US Land and Canada, where lower natural gas prices resulted in a steep drop in activity and consequent pressure on pricing. Canada revenue was also lower as
the result of the weakening of the Canadian dollar against the US dollar. Revenue in the US Gulf of Mexico GeoMarket was severely impacted by weaker shelf drilling activity and strong pricing pressure.      Pretax operating margin fell 17.3 percentage points to 5.8% due to the significant decline in activity levels across the Area, combined with
the severe pricing erosion.             Latin America             Revenue of $4.22 billion was marginally lower compared to 2008. The weakening
of local currencies against the US dollar reduced 2009 revenue by approximately 3%. In addition, Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago revenue fell due to significantly reduced customer spending while Peru/Colombia/Ecuador revenue was lower due to
reduced gain share in IPM projects. These decreases were mostly offset by higher IPM activity in Mexico/Central America and increased offshore activity in Brazil.      Pretax operating margin decreased 245 bps to 17.8% primarily as the result of the sharp activity decline in Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago and the lower gain share in Peru/Colombia/Ecuador.
            Europe/CIS/Africa             Revenue of $7.15 billion was 13% lower than last year largely due to the
weakening of local currencies against the US dollar, which reduced revenue by approximately 7%. In addition, revenue was negatively impacted by reduced customer spending that resulted in significantly lower activity and pricing erosion in Russia and
the North Sea. Revenue in the West   South Africa and Caspian GeoMarkets and in Framo was also negatively impacted by lower activity levels. These decreases were partially offset by a revenue increase in the North Africa GeoMarket due to
strong Testing Services product sales.      Pretax operating margins declined 357 bps to 23.9% on a combination of the overall
lower activity and heavy pricing pressure across the Area.             Middle
East   Asia             Revenue of $5.23 billion was 9% below
2008. Revenue was down across much of the Middle East, especially in the East Mediterranean and Arabian GeoMarkets, due to reduced demand for Drilling   Measurements, Wireline and Testing Services technologies. Revenue in Asia also fell,
primarily due to a decrease in offshore exploration activity, which was most significant in the East Asia and Australia/Papua New Guinea GeoMarkets, resulting in lower demand for Testing Services and Wireline technologies as well as Completion
Systems products.      Pretax operating margin decreased 268 bps to 32.4% primarily as a result of the lower overall activity and a
less favorable revenue mix across the Area.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                     WesternGeco              Full-year revenue of $2.12 billion was 25% lower than 2008. Revenue decreased
across all product lines, with the largest declines experienced in Marine and Multiclient. Marine revenue declined due to lower activity combined with reduced pricing as the result of weak market conditions. Multiclient revenue decreased primarily
in North America, as customers continued to reduce discretionary spending. Land revenue fell on lower crew utilization, while Data Processing revenue was down reflecting lower activity primarily in Europe/Africa and in North America.      Pretax margin decreased 14.1 percentage points to 15.4% primarily due to the weaker Marine activity and pricing as well as lower Multiclient
sales.      Revenue backlog was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009, compared to $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008.
            Full-Year 2008 Results          
            Oilfield Services   
           Full-year 2008 revenue of $24.28 billion increased 20% versus
2007 driven by Area growth of 28% in Latin America, 24% in Europe/CIS/Africa, 18% in Middle East   Asia and 11% in North America. All Technologies experienced double-digit growth, most notably in Well Services, Drilling  
Measurements and Wireline.      Pretax operating income of $6.50 billion in 2008 was 9% higher than 2007. However, pretax operating
margin declined 256 bps to 26.8% primarily due to reduced pricing for well stimulation services in the US land GeoMarkets, a higher mix of low-margin third-party managed services in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket and cost inflation across all
Areas.             North America             Revenue of $5.91 billion grew 11% versus 2007. Growth was led by the US land
West GeoMarket mostly due to increased gas shale activity that resulted in robust demand for Well Services and Drilling   Measurements technologies and by the US land Central GeoMarket on higher rig activity and strong Artificial Lift
product sales. The Canada GeoMarket revenue was higher from demand for Well Services and Drilling   Measurements technologies while the US Gulf of Mexico GeoMarket grew on increased deepwater activity the resulted in strong demand for
Drilling   Measurements and Wireline services in addition to Completion Systems products.      Pretax operating margin
decreased 557 bps to 23.2% primarily as the result of lower pricing for well stimulation services in the US land GeoMarkets and cost inflation across the Area.         
   Latin America             Revenue of $4.23 billion was 28% higher than 2007 on double-digit growth across all GeoMarkets. The Mexico/Central America GeoMarket increased on significantly higher IPM activity while the
Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket also experienced increased IPM activity in addition to robust demand for Wireline services and for Artificial Lift products and SIS software. The Brazil GeoMarket grew on higher offshore activity that resulted in
stronger demand for Well Testing, Wireline and Well Services technologies. The Venezuela/Trinidad and Tobago GeoMarket experienced increased demand for Wireline, Drilling   Measurements and Well Services activities.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   Pretax operating margin of 20.3%
declined 262 bps versus 2007 as a result of an increased mix of low-margin third-party managed services in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket and cost inflation across the Area.             Europe/CIS/Africa             Revenue of $8.18 billion increased 24% versus the same period last year. Growth was led by Russia which experienced strong demand for Wireline, Well Services
and Drilling   Measurements technologies. The West   South Africa, North Sea and Caspian GeoMarkets grew on increased exploration-related services as well as strong demand for Well Services technologies. The Continental Europe
GeoMarket was higher due to strong drilling-related activities and demand for SIS offerings. The consolidation of Framo also contributed to the increase.      Pretax operating margin decreased 112 bps to 27.4% primarily as a result of reduced pricing in the Libya GeoMarket and a less favorable revenue mix in the Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea GeoMarket and
Russia. The consolidation of Framo also reduced total Area margin.             Middle East   Asia             Revenue of $5.72
billion was 18% higher than the prior year. All GeoMarkets experienced growth, most notably in the Arabian, Australia/Papua New Guinea/New Zealand, Gulf, and East Mediterranean GeoMarkets. Among the Technologies, growth was strongest in Wireline,
Drilling   Measurements, Well Services and Well Testing.      Pretax operating margin was nearly flat at 35.0% as the
positive impact of the higher overall activity level was offset by cost inflation.              WesternGeco              Full-year 2008 revenue of
$2.84 billion was 4% lower than 2007. Multiclient revenue was down primarily as the result of significantly lower client discretionary spending in the fourth quarter of 2008, while Land decreased on lower crew utilization. These decreases were
partially offset by increases in Marine, as a result of additional vessel capacity and higher pricing, and in Data Processing, which experienced a growth in activity in all geographic areas.      Pretax operating margin of 29.5% decreased 634 bps due to significantly lower Multiclient sales, reduced Land activity and cost inflation
that affected Marine operations.      Revenue backlog was $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008, compared to $1.2 billion at
December 31, 2007.              Interest and Other Income     
        Interest and other income consisted of the following:         

1.   
     
    Refer to Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for details.                 Interest Income              The average return on investments decreased to 1.4% in 2009 from 3.5% in 2008
and the weighted average investment balance of $4.5 billion in 2009 increased $1.1 billion compared to 2008.      The average
return on investments decreased to 3.5% in 2008 from 5.2% in 2007 and the weighted average investment balance of $3.4 billion in 2008 increased $286 million compared to 2007.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                     Equity in Net Earnings of Affiliated Companies
             The equity in net earnings of affiliated companies
primarily represents Schlumberger s share of the results of its 40% interest in the M-I SWACO drilling fluids joint venture with Smith International, Inc. Schlumberger s equity income from this joint venture was $131 million in 2009, $210
million in 2008 and $178 million in 2007. The decrease in equity income relating to this joint venture from 2008 to 2009 was attributable to a significant decline in M-I SWACO activity levels, primarily in its United States and Europe/Africa
regions, as well as increased pricing pressures.              Interest Expense
             Interest expense of $221 million in 2009 decreased by
$26 million compared to 2008 due to a decline in the weighted average borrowing rates, from 4.5% to 3.9%. The weighted average debt balance of $5.6 billion in 2009 increased $148 million compared to 2008 .       Interest expense of $247 million in 2008 decreased by $28 million compared to 2007 due to a decline in the weighted average borrowing rates,
from 5.0% to 4.5%. The weighted average debt balance of $5.5 billion in 2008 was essentially flat compared to 2007 .               Other              Gross margin was 23.4%, 30.2% and 33.5% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      The
decline in gross margin in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily attributable to lower activity coupled with the impact of a significant reduction in pricing across all of Oilfield Services, most notably in North America and Europe/CIS/Africa. Weaker
Marine activity and pricing and reduced Multiclient sales in WesternGeco also contributed to the margin decline.      The decline
in gross margin percentage in 2008, compared to 2007, was primarily attributable to the following factors: reduced pricing for well stimulation services in the US Land GeoMarkets, a higher mix of low-margin third-party managed services in the
Mexico/Central America GeoMarket, significantly lower Multiclient sales in WesternGeco and the impact of cost inflation across all Areas within Oilfield Services as well as the Marine operations of WesternGeco.       Research   engineering, Marketing and General   administrative  expenses, as a percentage of  Revenue , were as
follows:         
          Research   engineering expenditures, by segment, were as follows:         
            Income Taxes              The Schlumberger effective
tax rate was 19.6% in 2009, 20.9% in 2008, and 21.9% in 2007.      The Schlumberger effective tax rate is sensitive to the
geographic mix of earnings. When the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America increases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally decrease. Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of
North America decreases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally increase.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   The decrease in the Schlumberger
effective tax rate over the past two years has been primarily attributable to the geographic mix of earnings. Schlumberger has generated a lower proportion of its pretax earnings in North America in each of the last two years. In addition, outside
North America, various GeoMarkets with lower tax rates have contributed a greater percentage to pretax earnings.              Charges and Credits              Schlumberger recorded significant charges and credits in continuing operations during 2009, 2008 and 2007. These charges and credits, which are summarized
below, are more fully described in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .      The following is a summary of the
2009 charges:         
          The
following is a summary of the 2008 charges:         
          The
following is a summary of the 2007 credits:         

(Stated in millions)   

Pretax   

Tax   
      
     Non-       controlling Interests    
      
   Net   

Income Statement Classification    
 
     Gain on sale of workover rigs   
      
  $  
  (24  
  )   
      
  $  
  7  
      
  $  

$  
  (17  
  )   
      
   Interest and other income, net    

Cash Flow     
        Net Debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term
investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.
        
   26   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   Details of Net Debt follow:

1.  
     
  Includes multiclient seismic data costs.           
          Key liquidity events during 2009, 2008 and 2007 included:         

During the third quarter of 2009, Schlumberger issued $450 million of 3.00% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. The proceeds from these notes were used to
refinance existing debt obligations.            

During the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger entered into a  3.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note program. This program provides for the issuance
of various types of debt instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes in Euro, US dollar or other currencies.               During the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2014 under this program. Schlumberger
entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.95%. The proceeds from
these notes were used to refinance existing debt obligations and for general corporate purposes.         

In September 2008, Schlumberger issued  500 million 5.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these Euro
notes for US dollars on the date of issue
           
   27   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                

until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.74%. The proceeds from these notes were used to repay
commercial paper borrowings.            

On April 20, 2006, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program of up to 40 million shares of common stock to be
acquired in the open market before April 2010, subject to market conditions. This program was completed during the second quarter of 2008.               On April 17, 2008, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for shares of Schlumberger common
stock, to be acquired in the open market before December 31, 2011, of which $1.43 billion had been repurchased as of December 31, 2009.            The following table summarizes the activity under these share repurchase programs during 2009, 2008 and 2007:         
       
          The reduction in cash flows experienced by some of Schlumberger s customers as a result of global economic conditions could have
significant adverse effects on their financial condition. This could result in, among other things, delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to Schlumberger, which could have a material adverse effect on Schlumberger s results of
operations and cash flows. At times in recent quarters, Schlumberger has experienced delays in payments from certain of its customers. Schlumberger operates in approximately 80 countries. At December 31, 2009, only three of those
countries individually accounted for greater than 5% of Schlumberger s accounts receivable balance of which only one represented greater than 10%.         
       
          Oilfield Services capital expenditures are expected to approach
$2.4 billion for the full year 2010 as compared to $1.9 billion in 2009 and $3.0 billion in 2008.            WesternGeco capital expenditures are expected to approach $0.3 billion for the full year 2010 as compared to $0.5 billion in 2009 and $0.7
billion in 2008.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                
          Schlumberger s international defined benefit pension plans are a combined 85% funded at December 31,
2009 based on the projected benefit obligation. This compares to 69% funded at December 31, 2008.            Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing approximately $500 million to $600 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010,
subject to market and business conditions.         

At
December 31, 2008, there were no outstanding Series A debentures. There were $321 million outstanding Series B debentures at both December 31, 2009 and 2008.       

On December 10, 2007, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Eastern Echo for $838 million in cash. Net assets acquired included $320 million
of cash and investments and $182 million of long-term debt.               As of December 31, 2009, Schlumberger had approximately $4.6 billion of cash and short-term investments on hand. Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $3.8 billion
with commercial banks, of which $2.8 billion was available and unused as of December 31, 2009. This included $2.5 billion of committed facilities which support commercial paper borrowings in the United States and Europe. Schlumberger believes
that these amounts are sufficient to meet future business requirements for at least the next twelve months.      Schlumberger s total outstanding debt at December 31, 2009 was $5.5 billion and included approximately $0.4 billion of commercial paper borrowings. The total outstanding debt increased approximately $0.2 billion compared to
December 31, 2008.              Summary of Major Contractual Obligations

1.   
     
    Excludes future payments for interest. Includes, in 2010, amounts relating to the $321 million of 2.125% Series B Convertible Debentures which are
described in Note 11 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .            
   29   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                

2.   
     
    Represents an estimate of contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business. Although these contractual obligations are considered enforceable
and legally binding, the terms generally allow Schlumberger the option to reschedule and adjust their requirements based on business needs prior to the delivery of goods.               Refer to Note 19 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for details
regarding Schlumberger s pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.      As discussed in Note 15 of the
 Consolidated Financial Statements , included in the Schlumberger  Consolidated Balance Sheet  at December 31, 2009 is approximately $1.03 billion of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in the over 100 jurisdictions in
which Schlumberger conducts business. Due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded, Schlumberger cannot make reliable estimates of
the timing of cash outflows relating to these liabilities.      Schlumberger has outstanding letters of credit/guarantees which
relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where Schlumberger operates.
             Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates              The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires Schlumberger to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the
reported amounts of revenue and expenses. The following accounting policies involve  critical accounting estimates  because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by Schlumberger about matters that are inherently
uncertain. A summary of all of Schlumberger s significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .      Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments
about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.             Multiclient Seismic Data             The WesternGeco segment capitalizes the costs associated with obtaining
multiclient seismic data. The carrying value of the multiclient seismic data library at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $288 million and $287 million, respectively. Such costs are charged to  Cost of revenue  based on the percentage of the
total costs to the estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no circumstances will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year straight-line amortized value.
     The carrying value of surveys is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates
an impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future revenues, which involve significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying
value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future period. For purposes of performing the annual impairment test of the multiclient library, future cash
flows are analyzed primarily based on two pools of surveys: United States and non-United States. The United States and non-United States pools were determined to be the most appropriate level at which to perform the impairment review based upon a
number of factors including (i) various macroeconomic factors that influence the ability to successfully market surveys and (ii) the focus of the sales force and related costs. Certain larger surveys, which are typically prefunded by
customers, are analyzed for impairment on a survey by survey basis.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                    Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    
        Schlumberger maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in order to record
accounts receivable at their net realizable value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments to this reserve. Allowances have been recorded for receivables believed to be uncollectible, including
amounts for the resolution of potential credit and other collection issues such as disputed invoices. Depending on how such potential issues are resolved, or if the financial condition of Schlumberger customers were to deteriorate resulting in an
impairment of their ability to make payments, adjustments to the allowance may be required.             Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets             Schlumberger records the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired as goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as well as when an
event or change in circumstance indicates an impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of Schlumberger s individual reporting units to their carrying amount to determine if there is a potential
goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.   
  For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill, Schlumberger s reporting units are primarily the geographic areas
comprising the Oilfield Services segment in addition to the WesternGeco segment. Schlumberger estimates the fair value of these reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis and/or applying various market multiples. Determining the fair
value of a reporting unit is a matter of judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Schlumberger s estimates of the fair value of each of its reporting units were significantly in excess of their respective
carrying values at the time of the annual goodwill impairment tests for 2009, 2008 and 2007.      Long-lived assets, including
fixed assets and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the
estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying
value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involves significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in
economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future. Schlumberger evaluates the remaining useful life of its intangible
assets on a periodic basis to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining estimated amortization period.             Income Taxes             Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by the tax authorities in most of the over 100 jurisdictions in which it conducts business.
These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of
these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the
ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs.
        
   31   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                    Pension and Postretirement Benefits
            Schlumberger s pension and postretirement benefit
obligations are described in detail in Note 19 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements . The obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which include critical assumptions related to the discount rate, expected
return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates. These assumptions are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or upon the occurrence of significant events.      The discount rate Schlumberger uses reflects the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with maturities
matching the expected timing of the payment of the benefit obligations. The following summarizes the discount rates utilized by Schlumberger for its various pension and postretirement benefit plans:         

The weighted-average discount rate utilized to determine expense for Schlumberger s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plans
increased from 6.50% in 2008 to 6.94% in 2009.            
          A higher
discount rate decreases the present value of benefit obligations and decreases expense.      The expected rate of return for our
retirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return expected to be earned on plan assets over the period that benefits included in the benefit obligation are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return for Schlumberger s United
States pension plans has been determined based upon expectations regarding future rates of return for the investment portfolio, with consideration given to the distribution of investments by asset class and historical rates of return for each
individual asset class. The expected rate of return on plan assets for the United States pension plans was 8.50% in both 2009 and 2008. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the international plans was 8.35% in 2009 and
8.00% in 2008. A lower expected rate of return would increase pension expense.      Schlumberger s medical cost trend rate
assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. The overall medical cost trend rate assumption utilized to determine both the 2009 postretirement medical expense as well as
the postretirement medical liability as of December 31, 2009 was 8% graded to 5% over the next six years.      The following
illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for the United States and international pension plans:         
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7, 7A        
           The following illustrates the sensitivity to
changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for Schlumberger s United States postretirement medical plans:         
             Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.             Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates.
     As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts business in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger s functional
currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. Approximately 80% of Schlumberger s revenue in 2009 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of
Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar-reported expenses will increase.
     A 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2009 would have changed revenue by
approximately 1%. If the 2009 average exchange rates of the US dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, Schlumberger s income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 4%. Conversely, a 5% weakening
of the US dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 4%.      Although
the functional currency of Schlumberger s operations in Venezuela is the US dollar, a portion of the transactions are denominated in local currency. For financial reporting purposes, such transactions are remeasured into US dollars at the
official exchange rate, which until January 2010 was fixed at 2.15 Venezuelan bolivares fuertes per US dollar, despite significant inflation in recent periods. In January 2010, Venezuela s currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate
system was announced. Schlumberger is in the process of evaluating what exchange rate will apply to Schlumberger s local currency denominated transactions. Such rate is expected to be between 2.6 and 4.3 Venezuelan bolivars fuertes per US
dollar. Schlumberger does not expect the immediate impact of this devaluation to have a significant impact on its first quarter 2010 results of operations. Going forward, although this devaluation will result in a reduction in the US dollar reported
amount of local currency denominated revenues and expenses, the impact will not be material to Schlumberger s consolidated financial statements.      Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility
in currency exchange rates. Foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses.
     At December 31, 2009, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $4.3 billion in various foreign
currencies.      Schlumberger is subject to the risk of market price fluctuations of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel.
Schlumberger utilizes forward contracts to manage a small percentage of the price risk associated with forecast metal purchases. As of December 31, 2009, $4 million of commodity forward contracts were outstanding.      Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk
management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. At
        
   33   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7A                   
December 31, 2009, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $4.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $1.3 billion. Schlumberger has entered into
interest rate swaps relating to $1.1 billion of its fixed rate debt as of December 31, 2009 whereby Schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate and pay interest at a variable rate.      Schlumberger s exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. Both
 Short-term investments  and  Fixed income investments ,  held to maturity , which totaled approximately $5.1 billion at December 31, 2009, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of
deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in US dollars. The average return on investment was 1.4% in 2009.            The following table represents principal amounts of Schlumberger s debt at December 31, 2009 by year of maturity:         
          The fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $4.6 billion as of December 31, 2009. The weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of December 31,
2009 was approximately 1.7%.      Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.              Forward-looking Statements              This Form 10-K and other statements we make contain  forward-looking
statements  within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of
Oilfield Services and WesternGeco (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and gas prices; operating margins; capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas
industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger s customers; future global economic conditions expected pension and post-retirement funding; expected stock compensation costs; and future results of operations. These statements are subject to
risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the current global economic downturn; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger s customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and
development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; seasonal factors; and other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including under  Item 1A. Risk Factors . If one
or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected. Schlumberger disclaims
any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                      Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.             SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME         

(1)   
     
    Amounts may not add due to rounding               See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   35   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET         
            See the  Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   36   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS         

1.   
     
    Includes multiclient seismic data costs.      

2.   
     
    Net of the effect of business acquisitions.            
    See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   37   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY
        
          See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   38   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
        SHARES OF COMMON STOCK         
            See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   39   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                      Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements              1.    Business Description
            Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in the
Netherlands Antilles) and its subsidiaries (collectively,  Schlumberger ) form the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management, and information solutions to customers in the oil and gas industry worldwide,
providing the industry s widest range of services and products from exploration through production. Schlumberger consists of two business segments: Oilfield Services and WesternGeco. The Oilfield Services segment provides the industry s
widest range of exploration and production services required during the life of an oil and gas reservoir. WesternGeco provides comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring, and development services, with extensive seismic crews and data
processing centers as well as a large multiclient seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D) seismic surveys to multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir management.             2.    Summary of Accounting Policies             The  Consolidated Financial Statements  of Schlumberger have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.              Principles of Consolidation              The accompanying  Consolidated Financial Statements  include the accounts of Schlumberger, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and subsidiaries over which it exercises a controlling financial interest.
All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Investments in entities in which Schlumberger does not have a controlling financial interest, but over which it has significant influence are accounted for using the equity
method. Schlumberger s share of the after-tax earnings of equity method investees is included in  Interest and other income . Investments in which Schlumberger does not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for
using the cost method. Both equity and cost method investments are classified in  Investments in Affiliated Companies .              Reclassifications              Certain items from prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.              Use of Estimates              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, Schlumberger evaluates its estimates, including those related to collectibility of accounts receivable; valuation of inventories and investments; recoverability of goodwill,
intangible assets and investments in affiliates; income taxes; multiclient seismic data; contingencies and actuarial assumptions for employee benefit plans. Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from
these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                     Revenue Recognition               Oilfield Services              Services and Products Revenue             Schlumberger recognizes revenue for services and products based upon purchase
orders, contracts or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement with the customer that include fixed or determinable prices. Revenue is recognized for services when they are rendered and collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue is recognized
for products upon delivery, customer acceptance and when collectibility is reasonably assured.             Software Revenue             Revenue derived from the sale of licenses of Schlumberger software may include installation, maintenance, consulting and training services.      If services are not essential to the functionality of the software, the revenue for each element of the contract is recognized separately based on its respective vendor specific objective evidence of fair
value when all of the following conditions are met: a signed contract is obtained, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectibility is probable.      If an ongoing vendor obligation exists under the license arrangement, or if any uncertainties with regard to customer acceptance are significant, revenue for the related element is deferred based on its
vendor specific objective evidence of fair value. Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is determined as being the price for the element when sold separately. If vendor specific objective evidence of fair value does not exist for all
undelivered elements, all revenue is deferred until sufficient evidence exists or all elements have been delivered.      The
percentage of completion method of accounting is applied to contracts whereby software is being customized to a customer s specifications.             WesternGeco             Revenue from all services is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured. Revenue from contract services performed on a dayrate basis is recognized as the service is performed. Revenue from other contract services, including pre-funded multiclient surveys, is recognized as the seismic data is acquired
and/or processed on a proportionate basis as work is performed. This method requires revenue to be recognized based upon quantifiable measures of progress, such as square kilometers acquired. Multiclient data surveys are licensed or sold to
customers on a non-transferable basis. Revenue on completed multiclient data surveys is recognized upon obtaining a signed licensing agreement and providing customers with access to such data.             Multiple Deliverable Arrangements             Revenue in both segments may be generated from contractual arrangements that
include multiple deliverables. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized as each item is delivered based on their relative fair value and when the delivered items have stand-alone value to the customer.             Other             Taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed concurrently on specific revenue-producing transaction, such as
sales and value added taxes, are excluded from revenue in the  Consolidated Statement of Income.                Translation of Non-United States Currencies              The functional currency of Schlumberger is primarily the US dollar. All assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than US dollars are translated at current exchange rates. The
resulting
        
   41   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   
adjustments are charged or credited directly to the  Stockholders  Equity  section of the  Consolidated Balance Sheet . Revenue and expenses are translated at the weighted-average
exchange rates for the period. All realized and unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income in the period in which they occur. Transaction gains, net of hedging activities, of $73 million, $8 million and $17 million were
recognized in 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively.              Investments   
           The  Consolidated Balance Sheet  reflects the Schlumberger
investment portfolio separated between current and long term, based on maturity. Under normal circumstances it is the intent of Schlumberger to hold the investments until maturity, with the exception of investments that are considered trading
(December 31, 2009   $184 million; December 31, 2008   $194 million). Both  Short-term investments  and  Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity  are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits,
certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds, and are substantially denominated in US dollars. They are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market. Short-term investments that are designated as trading are
stated at fair value, which is estimated using quoted market prices for those or similar investments. The unrealized gains/losses on investments designated as trading were not significant at both December 31, 2009 and 2008.      For purposes of the  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows , Schlumberger does not consider short-term investments to be cash equivalents
as a significant portion have original maturities in excess of three months.       Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity 
at December 31, 2009 of $738 million mature as follows: $274 million in 2011, $289 million in 2012, $60 million in 2013 and $115 million in 2014.              Inventories              Inventories are stated at average cost or at market, whichever is lower. Inventory consists of materials, supplies and finished goods. Costs included in inventories consist of materials, direct labor and
manufacturing overhead.              Fixed Assets and Depreciation
             Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation, which is provided for by charges to income over the estimated useful lives of the assets using the straight-line method. Fixed assets include the manufacturing cost of oilfield technical equipment manufactured or assembled by
subsidiaries of Schlumberger. Expenditures for replacements and improvements are capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred. Upon sale or other disposition, the applicable amounts of asset cost and accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts and the net amount, less proceeds from disposal, is charged or credited to income.              Multiclient Seismic Data              The multiclient library consists of completed and in-process seismic surveys that are licensed on a nonexclusive basis. This data may be acquired and/or
processed by Schlumberger or subcontractors. Multiclient surveys are primarily generated utilizing Schlumberger resources. Schlumberger capitalizes costs directly incurred in acquiring and processing the multiclient seismic data. Such costs are
charged to  Cost of revenue  based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no circumstance will an individual survey carry a net book
value greater than a 4- year straight-line amortized value.      The carrying value of the multiclient library is reviewed for
impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicating impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future cash flows, which involves significant
judgment on the
        
   42   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   
part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in
impairment charges in a future period.              Goodwill, Other Intangibles
and Long-lived Assets              Schlumberger records the excess of
purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired as goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an impairment may have occurred.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of Schlumberger s individual reporting units to their carrying amount to determine if there is a potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than
its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.      For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill, the Schlumberger reporting units are primarily the
geographic areas comprising the Oilfield Services segment in addition to the WesternGeco segment. Schlumberger estimates the fair value of these reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis and/or applying various market multiples.
Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is a matter of judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Schlumberger s estimates of the fair value of each of its reporting units were significantly in excess of
their respective carrying values for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Schlumberger performs the annual goodwill impairment test of its WesternGeco reporting unit on October 1   st    of every year while the reporting units comprising the Oilfield Services segment are tested as of December 31
   st   .      Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition.
If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as
the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involve significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value,
Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future.      Schlumberger capitalizes certain costs of
internally developed software. Capitalized costs include purchased materials and services, payroll and payroll related costs. The costs of internally developed software are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, which is
principally 5 to 7 years. Other intangible assets consist primarily of technology and customer relationships acquired in business combinations. Acquired technology is generally amortized over periods ranging from 5 to 15 years and acquired customer
relationships are generally amortized over periods ranging from 7 years to 20 years.              Taxes on Income              Schlumberger computes
taxes on income in accordance with the tax rules and regulations of the many taxing authorities where the income is earned. The income tax rates imposed by these taxing authorities vary substantially. Taxable income may differ from pretax income for
financial accounting purposes. To the extent that differences are due to revenue or expense items reported in one period for tax purposes and in another period for financial accounting purposes, an appropriate provision for deferred income taxes is
made. Any effect of changes in income tax rates or tax laws are included in the provision for income taxes in the period of enactment. When it is more likely than not that a portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized in the
future, Schlumberger provides a corresponding valuation allowance against deferred tax assets.      Schlumberger s tax filings
are subject to regular audit by the tax authorities in most of the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved
        
   43   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   
with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Schlumberger recognizes the impact of a tax position in its financial statements if that position is more likely than not of being
sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon
prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be
materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the year in which such resolution occurs.      At December 31, 2009, approximately $18 billion of consolidated income retained for use in the business represented undistributed earnings of consolidated subsidiaries and Schlumberger s share
of equity method investees. Schlumberger has not recorded deferred taxes relating to any of its undistributed earnings as they are all considered to be either indefinitely reinvested or earnings that would not be taxed when remitted.              Concentration of Credit Risk              Schlumberger s assets that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk
consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, fixed income investments held to maturity, receivables from clients and derivative financial instruments. Schlumberger places its cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments held to
maturity with financial institutions and corporations, and limits the amount of credit exposure with any one of them. Schlumberger regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of the issuers in which it invests. The receivables from clients are spread
over many countries and customers. Schlumberger maintains an allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable based on expected collectibility and performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial condition. By using derivative
financial instruments to hedge exposure to changes in exchange rates and, commodity prices, Schlumberger exposes itself to some credit risk. Schlumberger minimizes this credit risk by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties,
limiting the exposure to each counterparty and monitoring the financial condition of its counterparties.              Research   Engineering              All research and engineering expenditures are expensed as incurred.              Earnings per Share              Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by first adding back to net income the interest expense on the convertible debentures and then dividing this adjusted net income attributable to
Schlumberger by the sum of (i) unvested restricted stock units; and (ii) the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution assumes
(a) that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and that the proceeds are used by Schlumberger to purchase shares at the average market price for the period, and (b) the conversion of the
convertible debentures.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The following is a reconciliation
from basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for each of the last three years:         
          Employee stock options to purchase approximately 17.1 million, 5.8 million and 0.8 million shares of common stock at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of
diluted earnings per share because the option exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common stock, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per share would have been anti-dilutive.              Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements              Effective, January 1, 2009, Schlumberger adopted newly issued accounting
guidance that changed the accounting for, and reporting of, minority interest (now referred to as noncontrolling interests). Noncontrolling interests are now classified as  Equity  in the Schlumberger  Consolidated Balance Sheet .
     The new guidance also changed the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring net income to include the
net income for both the parent and the noncontrolling interests, with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share continues to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent.
     Prior period amounts related to noncontrolling interests have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
        
   45   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    3.    Charges and Credits
            Schlumberger recorded the following Charges and Credits in
continuing operations during 2009, 2008 and 2007:             2009    
        Second quarter of 2009:         

Schlumberger continued to reduce its global workforce as a result of the slowdown in oil and gas exploration and production spending and its effect on
activity in the oilfield services sector. As a result of these actions, Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of $102 million ($85 million after-tax), which is classified in  Cost of revenue  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .
These workforce reductions were completed by the end of 2009.            

As a consequence of these workforce reductions, Schlumberger recorded pretax non-cash pension and other postretirement benefit curtailment charges of
$136 million ($122 million after-tax). These costs are classified in  Cost of revenue  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income . Refer to Note 19    Pension and Other Benefit Plans  for further details.
              The following is a summary of these charges:
        
           2008             Fourth quarter of 2008:         

Due to the continuing slowdown in oil and gas exploration and production spending and its effect on activity in the oilfield services sector,
Schlumberger took actions to reduce its global workforce. As a result of these actions, Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of $74 million ($65 million after-tax), which is classified in  Cost of revenue  in the  Consolidated Statement of
Income .            

Schlumberger wrote off certain assets, primarily accounts receivable relating to one client with liquidity issues. Accordingly, Schlumberger recorded a
pretax charge of $42 million ($28 million after-tax and noncontrolling interest). $32 million of the pretax charge is classified in  Cost of revenue  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income , with the remaining $10 million classified in
 Interest and other income, net .               The following is a summary of these charges:         
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    2007             Fourth quarter of 2007:         

Schlumberger sold certain workover rigs for $32 million, resulting in a pretax gain of $24 million ($17 million after-tax) which is classified in
 Interest and other income, net  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .                4.    Acquisitions               Acquisition of Eastern Echo Holding Plc              On December 10, 2007, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Eastern Echo Holding Plc ( Eastern Echo ) for $838 million in cash. Eastern Echo was a Dubai-based marine seismic company
that did not have any operations at the time of acquisition, but had signed contracts for the construction of six seismic vessels.      The purchase price has been allocated to the net assets acquired based upon their estimated fair values as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Cash and short-term investments   
      
  $  
  266  

Other current assets   

23  

Fixed income investments, held to maturity   

54  

Vessels under construction   

694  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities   

(17  
  )    
 
    Long-term debt   

(182  
  )    

Total purchase price   
      
  $  
  838  

Other Acquisitions              Schlumberger has made other acquisitions and minority interest investments, none of which were significant on an individual basis, for cash payments, net of cash acquired, of $514 million during 2009, $345 million during 2008, and $281
million during 2007.      Pro forma results pertaining to the above acquisitions are not presented as the impact was not
significant.             5.    Drilling Fluids Joint Venture
            The MI-SWACO drilling fluids joint venture is owned 40% by
Schlumberger and 60% by Smith International, Inc. Schlumberger records income relating to this venture using the equity method of accounting. The carrying value of Schlumberger s investment in the joint venture on December 31, 2009 and
2008 was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and is included within  Investments in Affiliated Companies  on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet . Schlumberger s equity income from this joint venture was $131 million in 2009,
$210 million in 2008 and $178 million in 2007. Schlumberger received cash distributions from the joint venture of $106 million in 2009, $57 million in 2008 and $46 million in 2007.      The joint venture agreement contains a provision under which either party to the joint venture may offer to sell its entire interest in the
venture to the other party at a cash purchase price per percentage interest specified in an offer notice. If the offer to sell is not accepted, the offering party will be obligated to purchase the entire interest of the other party at the same
price per percentage interest as the prices specified in the offer notice.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    6.    Inventory             A summary of inventory follows:         
           7.    Fixed
Assets             A summary of fixed assets follows:         
          The
estimated useful lives of Buildings   improvements are primarily 30 to 40 years. The estimated useful lives of Machinery   equipment are primarily 5 to 10 years. Seismic vessels are depreciated over periods ranging from 20 to 30
years with the related equipment generally depreciated over 5 years.      Depreciation expense relating to fixed assets was $2.1
billion, $1.9 billion and $1.5 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.             8.    Multiclient Seismic Data             The change in the carrying amount of multiclient seismic data is as follows:         
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    9.    Goodwill             The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by business segment were as
follows:         
           10.    Intangible Assets             Intangible assets principally comprise software, technology and customer relationships. At December 31, the gross book value and accumulated amortization of intangible assets were as follows:
        
          Amortization expense was $114 million in 2009, $124 million in 2008 and $124 million in 2007.      The weighted average amortization period for all intangible assets is approximately 12 years.      Amortization expense for the subsequent five years is estimated to be as follows: 2010   $109 million, 2011   $101 million, 2012   $96 million, 2013   $77 million
and 2014   $72 million.             11.    Long-term Debt
and Debt Facility Agreements              Series A Convertible Debentures  
           During 2003, Schlumberger Limited issued $975 million aggregate
principal amount of 1.5% Series A Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023. The Series A debentures were convertible, at the holders  option, into shares of common stock of Schlumberger Limited at a conversion rate of 27.651 shares for each
$1,000 of principal amount (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $36.165 per share).      During 2007, $622 million of the
Series A debentures were converted into 17.2 million shares of Schlumberger common stock. During 2008, all of the remaining $353 million of outstanding Series A debentures were converted into 9.8 million shares of Schlumberger common
stock.             Series B Convertible Debentures             During 2003, Schlumberger Limited issued $450 million aggregate principal
amount of 2.125% Series B Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023. The Series B debentures are convertible, at the holders  option, into shares of common stock of Schlumberger Limited. Holders of the Series B debentures may convert their
debentures into common stock at a conversion rate of 25.000 shares for each $1,000 of principal (equivalent to
        
   49   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   
an initial conversion price of $40.00 per share). The conversion rate may be adjusted for certain events, but it will not be adjusted for accrued interest.      On or after June 6, 2010, Schlumberger may redeem for cash all or part of the debentures, upon notice to the holders, at the redemption
prices of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. On June 1, 2010, June 1, 2013 and June 1, 2018, holders may require Schlumberger to repurchase their Series B
debentures. The repurchase price will be 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date. The repurchase price for repurchases on June 1, 2010 will be paid in cash. On the other repurchase
dates, Schlumberger may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash or common stock or any combination of cash and common stock. In addition, upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change (defined as a change in control or a termination of trading of
Schlumberger s common stock), holders may require Schlumberger to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures for an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase
date. The repurchase price may be paid in cash, Schlumberger common stock (or if Schlumberger is not the surviving entity in a merger, the securities of the surviving entity) or a combination of cash and the applicable securities, at
Schlumberger s option. The applicable securities will be valued at 99% of their market price.     Schlumberger s
option to pay the repurchase price with securities is subject to certain conditions. The debentures will mature on June 1, 2023 unless earlier redeemed or repurchased.      During 2008 and 2007, $95 million and $34 million of the Series B debentures were converted into 2.4 million and 0.9 million shares
of Schlumberger common stock, respectively.      There were $321 million of the Series B debentures outstanding at both
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The fair value of the Series B debentures at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $527 million and $398 million, respectively, and was based on quoted market prices.             Other Long-term Debt              Other Long-term Debt  consists of the following:         
          The fair value adjustment presented above represents changes in the fair value of the portion of Schlumberger s fixed rate debt that is hedged through the use of interest rate swaps.      During the third quarter of 2009, Schlumberger issued $450 million of 3.00% Guaranteed Notes due 2013.      During the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger entered into a  3.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note program. This program provides for the
issuance of various types of debt instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes in euro, US dollar or other currencies. Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2014 in the first quarter of 2009 under this program.
Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes
        
   50   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   
for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.95%.      In September 2008, Schlumberger issued  500 million 5.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap
these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.74%.      Commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008 include certain notes issued in currencies other than the US
dollar which were swapped for US dollars and pounds sterling on the date of issue until maturity. Commercial paper borrowings are classified as long-term debt to the extent of their backup by available and unused committed credit facilities maturing
in more than one year and to the extent it is Schlumberger s intent to maintain these obligations for longer than one year.      At December 31, 2009, Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $3.8 billion with commercial banks, of which $2.8 billion was available and unused. This included $2.5 billion of committed facilities which
support commercial paper programs in the United States and Europe, and mature in April 2012. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country. Borrowings under the commercial paper programs at
December 31, 2009 were $0.4 billion ($1.1 billion at December 31, 2008). At December 31, 2008 $0.4 billion of the commercial paper borrowings were classified within  Long-term debt   current portion  in the  Consolidated
Balance Sheet .      A summary of  Other Long-term Debt  by currency, analyzed by Bonds and Notes, Commercial Paper (CP)
and Other, at December 31 follows. As described in further detail above, the currencies are presented after taking into account currency swaps entered into on the date of issuance until maturity.         
          The weighted average interest rate on variable rate debt as of December 31, 2009 was 1.7%.       Other Long-term Debt  as of December 31, 2009, is due as follows: $656 million in 2011, $1.024 billion in 2012, $1.196 billion in 2013 and $1.478 billion in 2014.      The fair value of Schlumberger s  Other Long-term Debt  at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $4.6 billion and
$3.4 billion, respectively, and was estimated based on quoted market prices.             12.    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities             Schlumberger is exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. To mitigate these risks, Schlumberger utilizes derivative
instruments. Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.             Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk             As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts its business in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger s functional currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas
industry. Approximately 80% of Schlumberger s revenue in 2009 was denominated in US dollars. However,
        
   51   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   
outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens (strengthens) in relation to the foreign
currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar   reported expenses will increase (decrease).      Schlumberger is exposed to risks on future cash flows to the extent that local currency expenses exceed revenues denominated in local currency that are other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts
and foreign currency options to provide a hedge against a portion of these cash flow risks. These contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges, with the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedge recorded on the  Consolidated
Balance Sheet  and in  Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).  Amounts recorded in  Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods that the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The
ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of hedging instruments, if any, is recorded directly to earnings.      At
December 31, 2009, Schlumberger recognized a cumulative net $40 million gain in  Accumulated other comprehensive loss  relating to revaluation of foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options designated as cash flow
hedges, the majority of which is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months.      Schlumberger is also
exposed to changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities, including certain of its long-term debt, which are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign
currency options to hedge this exposure as it relates to certain currencies. These contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges with the fair value of the contracts recorded on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet  and changes in the fair value
recognized in the  Consolidated Statement of Income  along with the change in fair value of the hedged item.      At
December 31, 2009, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $4.3 billion in various foreign currencies.             Commodity Price Risk             Schlumberger is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel. Schlumberger utilizes forward
contracts to manage a small percentage of the price risk associated with forecasted metal purchases. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the variability of cash flows associated with the forecasted purchase of those commodities. These
contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and therefore, changes in the fair value of the forward contracts are recorded directly to earnings.      At December 31, 2009, $4 million of commodity forward contracts were outstanding.             Interest Rate Risk             Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that
uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates.      During the third quarter of 2009, Schlumberger entered into interest rate swaps relating to two of its debt instruments. The first swap was for a notional amount of $600 million in order to hedge a
portion of the changes in fair value of Schlumberger s $650 million 6.50% Notes due 2012. Under the terms of this swap agreement, Schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate of 6.5% semi-annually and will pay interest semi-annually at a
floating rate of one-month LIBOR plus a spread of 4.84%. The second swap was for a notional amount of $450 million in order to hedge changes in the fair value of Schlumberger s $450 million 3.00% Notes due 2013. Under the terms of this swap,
Schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate of 3.00% annually and will pay interest quarterly at a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 0.765%.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   These interest rate swaps are
designated as fair value hedges of the underlying debt. These derivative instruments are marked to market with gains and losses recognized currently in income to offset the respective losses and gains recognized on changes in the fair value of the
hedged debt. This results in no net gain or loss being recognized in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .      At
December 31, 2009, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $3.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $2.3 billion, after taking into account the effects of the interest rate swaps.      The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments are summarized as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Fair Value of Derivatives   
      
   Classification    
 
   Derivative assets   
      
   Dec. 31 2009   
      
   Dec. 31 2008   

Derivative designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
   $   
   14   
      
  $  
  62  
      
   Other current assets    
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

81   

3  
      
   Other Assets    

$   
   95   
      
  $  
  65  

Derivative not designated as hedges:   

Commodity contracts   
      
   $   
   1   
      
  $  

Other current assets    
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

11   

30  
      
   Other current assets    
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

28   

8  
      
   Other Assets    

$   
   40   
      
  $  
  38  

$   
   135   
      
  $  
  103  

Derivative Liabilities    

Derivative designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
   $   
   15   
      
  $  
  148  
      
   Accounts payable and accrued liabilities    
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

51   

53  
      
   Other Liabilities    

$   
   66   
      
  $  
  201  

Derivative not designated as hedges:   

Commodity contracts   
      
   $   
   3   
      
  $  
  4  
      
   Accounts payable and accrued liabilities    
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

5  
      
   Accounts payable and accrued liabilities    
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

25   

Other Liabilities    

$   
   28   
      
  $  
  9  

$   
   94   
      
  $  
  210  

The fair
value of all outstanding derivatives is determined using a model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived from or corroborated by observable data.      The effect of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and not designated as hedges on the  Consolidated Statement of Income  was as follows:         
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The effect of derivative
instruments in cash flow hedging relationships on income and other comprehensive income (OCI) was as follows:         
           13.    Stockholders  Equity             Schlumberger is authorized to issue 3,000,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which 1,194,812,901 and 1,194,100,845 shares were outstanding on December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Schlumberger is also
authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, which may be issued in series with terms and conditions determined by the Board of Directors. No shares of preferred stock have been issued. Holders of common
stock are entitled to one vote for each share of stock held.      The following is a reconciliation of  Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss) :         
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    14.    Stock Compensation Plans  
           Schlumberger has three types of stock-based compensation
programs: stock options, a restricted stock and restricted stock unit program (collectively referred to as  restricted stock ) and a discounted stock purchase plan ( DSPP ).              Stock Options              Key employees are granted stock options under Schlumberger stock option plans. For all of the stock options granted, the
exercise price equals the average of the high and low sales prices of Schlumberger stock on the date of grant; an option s maximum term is generally ten years, and options generally vest in increments over four or five years. The gain on the
awards granted during the period from July 2003 to January 2006 is capped at 125% of the exercise price. Awards granted subsequent to January 2006 do not have a cap on any potential gain and generally vest in increments over five years.   
  The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following weighted-average assumptions and resulting weighted-average fair value per share:         
          The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and options exercisable by five ranges of exercise prices as of
December 31, 2009:         
          The weighted average remaining contractual life of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2009 was 4.47 years.      The following table summarizes stock option activity during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:         
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The aggregate intrinsic value of
stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2009 was approximately $660 million. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2009 was approximately $430 million.      The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $103 million, $119 million
and $607 million, respectively.              Restricted Stock     
        Schlumberger began granting restricted stock in 2006. Restricted stock
awards generally vest at the end of three years, with the exception of certain grants which vest over a two-year period with a subsequent two-year holding period. There have not been any grants to date that are subject to performance-based vesting.
     The following table summarizes information about restricted stock transactions:         
            Discounted Stock Purchase
Plan              Under the terms of the DSPP, employees can choose
to have a portion of their earnings withheld, subject to certain restrictions, to purchase Schlumberger common stock. The purchase price of the stock is 92.5% of the lower of the stock price at the beginning or end of the plan period at six-month
intervals.      The fair value of the employees  purchase rights under the DSPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes model
with the following assumptions and resulting weighted average fair value per share:         
            Total Stock-based
Compensation Expense              The following summarizes stock-based compensation expense recognized in income:         
          At
December 31, 2009, there was $275 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock-based compensation arrangements. Approximately $107 million is expected to be recognized in 2010, $88 million is expected to be
recognized in 2011, $56 million in 2012, $21 million in 2013 and $3 million in 2014.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    15.    Income Tax Expense
            Schlumberger operates in more than 100 jurisdictions, where
statutory tax rates generally vary from 0% to 50%.       Income from Continuing Operations before taxes  which were subject to
United States and non-United States income taxes for each of the three years ended December 31, was as follows:         
          Schlumberger recorded $238 million of pretax charges in 2009 ($73 million in the US and $165 million outside the US) and $116 million in 2008 ($15 million in the US and $101 million outside the US).
Schlumberger recorded a pretax credit outside the US of $25 million in 2007. These charges and credits are included in the table above and are more fully described in Note 3    Charges and Credits .      The components of net deferred tax assets were as follows:       
  
          The above deferred tax assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are net of valuation allowances relating to net operating losses in certain countries of $251 million and $197 million, respectively. The
deferred tax assets are also net of valuation allowances relating to a capital loss carryforward of $17 million at December 31, 2009 ($140 million at December 31, 2008) which expires in 2010 and a foreign tax credit carryforward of $30
million at December 31, 2009 ($49 million at December 31, 2008) which expires in 2012.      The components of  Taxes on
income  were as follows:         
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   A reconciliation of the United
States statutory federal tax rate (35%) to the consolidated effective tax rate is:         
          Schlumberger conducts business in more than 100 jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are evolving. Due to the geographic breadth of the Schlumberger operations,
numerous tax audits may be ongoing throughout the world at any point in time. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made
based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities
which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:         
          The amounts above exclude accrued interest and penalties of $168 million, $136 million and $130 million at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively. All of the unrecognized tax benefits, if
recognized, would impact the Schlumberger effective tax rate.      Schlumberger classifies interest and penalties relating to
uncertain tax positions within  Taxes on income  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income . During 2009, 2008 and 2007, Schlumberger recognized approximately $32 million, $25 million and $36 million in interest and penalties, respectively.
     The following table summarizes the tax years that are either currently under audit or remain open and subject to examination
by the tax authorities in the most significant jurisdictions in which Schlumberger operates:         
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   In certain of the jurisdictions
noted above, Schlumberger operates through more than one legal entity, each of which has different open years subject to examination. The table above presents the open years subject to examination for the most material of the legal entities in each
jurisdiction. Additionally, it is important to note that tax years are technically not closed until the statute of limitations in each jurisdiction expires. In the jurisdictions noted above, the statute of limitations can extend beyond the open
years subject to examination.             16.    Leases and
Lease Commitments             Total rental expense was $1.0 billion in
2009, $1.1 billion in 2008, and $913 million in 2007. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases for each of the next five years are as follows:         
           17.    Contingencies             In
2007, Schlumberger received an inquiry from the United States Department of Justice ( DOJ ) related to the DOJ s investigation of whether certain freight forwarding and customs clearance services of Panalpina, Inc., and other
companies provided to oil and oilfield service companies, including Schlumberger, violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Schlumberger is cooperating with the DOJ and is currently continuing its own investigation with respect to these services.
     In 2009, Schlumberger learned that United States officials began a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory
inquiry, both related to certain Schlumberger operations in specified countries that are subject to United States trade and economic sanctions. Schlumberger is cooperating with the governmental authorities and is currently unable to predict the
outcome of these matters.      Schlumberger and its subsidiaries are party to various other legal proceedings from time to time. A
liability is accrued when a loss is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. At this time the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is not determinable and therefore, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible
losses that might result from an adverse judgment or settlement in any of these matters. However, in the opinion of management, any liability that might ensue would not be material in relation to Schlumberger s consolidated liquidity, financial
position or future results of operations.             18.    Segment Information             Schlumberger operates two business segments: Oilfield Services and WesternGeco.      The Oilfield Services segment falls into four clearly defined economic and geographical areas and is evaluated on the following basis: North America, Latin America, Europe including the CIS and Africa, and Middle East   Asia. The
Oilfield Services segment provides virtually all exploration and production services required during the life of an oil and gas reservoir.      The WesternGeco segment provides comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services with extensive seismic crews and data processing centers, as well as a large multiclient
seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D) seismic surveys to multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir management.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   Financial information for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, by segment, is as follows:         
       
   60   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                
          Oilfield Services Other include certain headquarter administrative costs which are not allocated geographically, manufacturing and certain other operations, and other cost and income items maintained at
the Oilfield Services level.      Corporate and Other is comprised principally of corporate expenses as well as interest income and
interest expense not allocated to the segments in addition to interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs and certain other nonoperating expenses. Corporate assets consist of cash, short-term investments, fixed income
investments, held to maturity and investments in affiliates.      Segments assets consist of receivables, inventories, fixed assets
and multiclient seismic data.      During each of the three years ended December 31, 2009, no single customer exceeded 10% of
consolidated revenue.      Schlumberger did not have revenue from third-party customers in its country of domicile during the last
three years. Revenue in the United States in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $3.7 billion, $5.9 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively.      Interest income excludes amounts which are included in the segments  income (2009   $10 million: 2008   $7 million; 2007   $2 million).      Interest expense excludes amounts which are included in the segments  income (2009   $33 million; 2008   $30 million; 2007   $7 million).      Depreciation   Amortization includes multiclient seismic data costs.             19.    Pension and Other Benefit Plans               Pension Plans              Schlumberger sponsors several defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to October 1, 2004. The benefits are
based on years of service and compensation, on a career-average pay basis.      In addition to the United States defined benefit
pension plans, Schlumberger sponsors several other international defined benefit pension plans. The most significant of these international plans are the International Staff Pension Plan, which was converted from a defined contribution plan to a
defined benefit
        
   61   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   
pension plan during the fourth quarter of 2008, and the UK pension plan (collectively, the  International plans ). The International Staff Pension Plan covers certain international
employees and is based on years of service and compensation on a career-average pay basis. The UK plan covers employees hired prior to April 1, 1999, and is based on years of service and compensation, on a final salary basis.      The weighted-average assumed discount rate, compensation increases and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine
the net pension cost for the US and International plans were as follows:         
          Net pension cost for 2009, 2008 and 2007 included the following components:         
          Due to the actions taken by Schlumberger to reduce its global workforce (See Note 3    Charges and Credits ), Schlumberger experienced a significant reduction in the expected aggregate years of
future service of its employees in certain of its pension plans and its postretirement medical plan. Accordingly, Schlumberger recorded a curtailment charge of $136 million during the second quarter of 2009 ($130 million relating to the pension
plans and $6 million relating to the postretirement medical plan). The curtailment charge includes recognition of the change in benefit obligations as well as a portion of the previously unrecognized prior service costs, reflecting the reduction in
expected future service for the impacted plans. As a result of the curtailment, Schlumberger performed a remeasurement of the impacted plans using a discount rate of 7.25% (as compared to 6.50% at December 31, 2008). All other significant
assumptions were unchanged from December 31, 2008 measurement date.      As the International Staff Pension Plan was converted
to a defined benefit pension plan during the fourth quarter of 2008, the net pension cost for this plan was not significant in 2008.      The weighted-average assumed discount rate and compensation increases used to determine the projected benefit obligations for the US and International plans were as follows:         
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The changes in the projected
benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of the plans were as follows:         
          The
funded status position represents the difference between the plan assets and the projected benefit obligation ( PBO ). The PBO represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation and includes an
assumption about future compensation levels. The accumulated benefit obligation represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation, but does not include an assumption about future compensation levels.
     The weighted-average allocation of plan assets and the target allocation by asset category are as follows:         
       
   63   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   Schlumberger s investment
policy includes various guidelines and procedures designed to ensure that assets are prudently invested in a manner necessary to meet the future benefit obligation of the pension plans. The policy does not permit the direct investment of plan assets
in any Schlumberger security. Schlumberger s investment horizon is long-term and accordingly the target asset allocations encompass a strategic, long-term perspective of capital markets, expected risk and return behavior and perceived future
economic conditions. The key investment principles of diversification, assessment of risk and targeting the optimal expected returns for given levels of risk are applied. The target asset allocation is reviewed periodically and is determined based
on a      long-term projection of capital market outcomes, inflation rates, fixed income yields, returns, volatilities and
correlation relationships. The inclusion of any given asset class in the target asset allocation is considered in relation to its impact on the overall risk/return characteristics as well as its impact on the overall investment return. As part of
its strategy, Schlumberger may utilize certain derivative instruments, such as options, futures, swaps and forwards, within the plans to manage risks (currency, interest rate, etc.) or as a substitute for physical securities or to obtain exposure to
different markets.      Asset performance is monitored frequently with an overall expectation that plan assets will meet or exceed
the weighted index of its target asset allocation and component benchmark over rolling five year periods.      The expected
long-term rate of return on assets assumptions reflect the average rate of earnings expected on funds invested or to be invested. The assumptions have been determined by reflecting expectations regarding future rates of return for the portfolio
considering the asset allocation and related historical rates of return. The appropriateness of the assumptions is reviewed annually.      The fair value of Schlumberger s pension plan assets at December 31, 2009, by asset category, was as follows:         
       
   64   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                
          The fair values presented above were determined based on valuation techniques categorized as follows:         

Level one: The use of quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.            

Level two: The use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are
not active or other inputs that are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data.            

Level three: The use of significantly unobservable inputs and that typically require the use of management s estimates of assumptions that market
participants would use in pricing.            

(a)  
     
  US equities include companies that are well diversified by industry sector and equity style (i.e., growth and value strategies). Active and passive management
strategies are employed. Investments are primarily in large capitalization stocks and, to a lesser extent, mid- and small-cap stocks.     

(b)  
     
  International equities are invested in companies that are traded on exchanges outside the U.S. and are well diversified by industry sector, country and equity style.
Active and passive strategies are employed. The vast majority of the investments are made in companies in developed markets with a small percentage in emerging markets.     

(c)  
     
  Corporate bonds consist primarily of investment grade bonds from diversified industries.     

(d)  
     
  Government and government-related debt securities are comprised primarily of inflation protected U.S. treasuries and, to a lesser extent, other government-related
securities.     

(e)  
     
  Government agency collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed-securities are debt obligations that represent claims to the cash flows from pools of mortgage
loans which are purchased from banks, mortgage companies, and other originators and then assembled into pools by governmental and quasi-governmental entities.     

(f)  
     
  Other collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-backed securities are debt obligations that represent claims to the cash flows from pools of mortgage loans which
are purchased from banks, mortgage companies, and other originators and then assembled into pools by a private entities.     

(g)  
     
  Private equity includes investments in several fund of funds limited partnerships.     

(h)  
     
  Real estate primarily includes investments in real estate limited partnerships, concentrated in commercial real estate.           
   65   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The funding policy is to annually
contribute amounts that are based upon a number of factors including the actuarial accrued liability, amounts that are deductible for income tax purposes, legal funding requirements and available cash flow. Schlumberger currently anticipates
contributing approximately $500 million to $600 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010, subject to market and business conditions.              Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions              Schlumberger and its United States subsidiary provide certain health care benefits to former US employees who have retired.      The actuarial assumptions used to determine the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost for the US
postretirement medical plan were as follows:         
          The net
periodic benefit cost for the US postretirement medical plan included the following components:         
          The
changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status were as follows:         
       
   66   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                     The underfunded position is
included in  Postretirement Benefits  in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet.       Assumed health care cost trend rates have
a significant effect on the amounts reported for the U.S. postretirement medical plan. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:         

(Stated in millions)   

One percentage point increase     
      
   One percentage point decrease     

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  13  
      
  $  
  (11  
  )    
 
    Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  154  
      
  $  
  (126  
  )                Other Information              The expected benefits to be paid under the US and International pension plans as well as the postretirement medical plan (which is disclosed net of the annual Medicare Part D subsidy, which ranges from $3 million to $10 million per year)
were as follows:         
          Included in  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  at December 31, 2009 are non-cash pretax charges which have not yet been
recognized in net periodic benefit cost. The estimated amounts that will be amortized from the estimated portion of each component of  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  which is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic
benefit cost during the year-ending December 31, 2010 is as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Pension Plans   
      
   Postretirement Medical Plan   

Net actuarial losses   
      
  $  
  77  
      
  $  
  11  

Prior service cost / (credit)   
      
  $  
  116  
      
  $  
  (21  
  )              In addition to providing defined pension benefits and a postretirement medical plan, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries have other deferred
benefit programs, primarily profit sharing and defined contribution pension plans. Expenses for these programs were $418 million, $482 million and $408 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    20.     Supplementary Information
            Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows:
        
           Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  are summarized as follows:         
           Interest and other income, net  includes the following:         
           Allowance for doubtful accounts  is as follows:         
            Discontinued Operations              During the fourth quarter of 2009, Schlumberger recorded a net $22 million charge related to the resolution of a customs assessment pertaining to its former offshore contract drilling business, as well as the resolution of certain
contingencies associated with other previously disposed of businesses. This amount is included in  Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .      During the first quarter of 2008, Schlumberger recorded a gain of $38 million related to the resolution of a contingency associated with a
previously disposed of business. This gain is included in  Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .              Subsequent Events              Subsequent events have been evaluated through February 5, 2010, which is the date the financial statements were issued.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    Management s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting             The management of Schlumberger Limited is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a 15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Schlumberger Limited s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     Schlumberger Limited management assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control   Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment Schlumberger
Limited management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2009, its internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.      The effectiveness of Schlumberger Limited s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                      Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders      of Schlumberger Limited            In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, of stockholders  equity and of cash
flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Schlumberger Limited and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.         

/s/    P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP     
 
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP     Houston, Texas    
 
  February 5, 2010          
   70   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8, 9, 9A, 9B                       Quarterly Results   
     (Unaudited)            The following table summarizes Schlumberger s results by quarter for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.         

1.  
     
  Gross margin equals  Revenue  less  Cost of revenue .     

2.  
     
  Amounts may not add due to rounding.     

*  
     
  Mark of Schlumberger                 Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.    
        None.               Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures.
            Schlumberger has carried out an evaluation under the
supervision and with the participation of Schlumberger s management, including the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and the Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
Schlumberger s disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon Schlumberger s evaluation, the CEO and the CFO have concluded that, as of December 31, 2009, the disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable
assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports Schlumberger files and submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms.
     There has been no change in Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter
ended December 31, 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting.      See Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.               Item 9B.    Other Information.        
     None.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

   Part III, Item 10, 11, 12                     PART III
              Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger.             See  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   Executive Officers of Schlumberger  of this Report for Item 10
information regarding executive officers of Schlumberger. The information under the captions  Election of Directors,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Corporate Governance   Director
Nominations  and  Corporate Governance   Board Committees   Audit Committee  in Schlumberger s 2010 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.      Schlumberger has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all of it directors, officers and employees, including its principal executive,
financial and accounting officers, or persons performing similar functions. Schlumberger s Code of Ethics is posted on its corporate governance website located at  www.slb.com/ir . In addition, amendments to the Code of Ethics and any
grant of a waiver from a provision of the Code of Ethics requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be disclosed on Schlumberger s corporate governance website located at  www.slb.com/ir.                Item 11.    Executive Compensation.
            The information set forth under the captions
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report  and  Director Compensation  in Schlumberger s 2010 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
              Item 12.    Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder        Matters.             The information under the captions  Security Ownership by Certain
Beneficial Owners  and  Security Ownership by Management  in Schlumberger s 2010 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.              Equity Compensation Plan Information              The table below sets forth the following information as of December 31, 2009 for (1) all compensation plans previously approved by our stockholders
and (2) all compensation plans not previously approved by our stockholders.         

*  
     
  Excluding securities reflected in column (a)              Equity compensation plans approved by Schlumberger stockholders include the Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan, as amended; the Schlumberger
1998 Stock Option Plan, as amended; the Schlumberger 2001 Stock Option Plan, as amended; the Schlumberger 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended; the Schlumberger 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended; the Schlumberger Discounted Stock Purchase Plan
and the Schlumberger 2004 Stock and Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

   Part III, Item 13, 14        
              Item 13.    Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.             The information under the captions  Corporate Governance   Director Independence  and  Corporate Governance   Policies and Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions  in Schlumberger s 2010
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.       
        Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services.             The information under the caption  Appointment of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm  in Schlumberger s 2010 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

   Part IV, Item 15                     PART IV
              Item 15.    Exhibits
and Financial Statement Schedules.          

(a)  
     
  The following documents are filed as part of this Report:           
          Financial statements of
20%-50% owned companies accounted for under the equity method and unconsolidated subsidiaries have been omitted because they do not meet the materiality tests for assets or income.         

(2)    Financial Statement Schedules not required    

(3)    Exhibits: the exhibits listed in the accompanying  Index to Exhibits  are filed or
incorporated by reference as part of this Form 10-K.    
       
   74   

Table of Contents  

            SIGNATURES
            Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.         

Date: February 5, 2010   

S CHLUMBERGER  L IMITED     

By:   
     
    /s/    H OWARD  G UILD         

Howard Guild     Chief Accounting Officer              Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.         

Name   

Title    

*      Andrew Gould   

Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     (Principal Executive Officer)    

/s/    S IMON 
A YAT               Simon
Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

/s/    H OWARD  G UILD         
      Howard Guild   

Chief Accounting Officer     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

*      Philippe Camus   

Director   

*      Jamie S. Gorelick   

Director   

*      Tony Isaac   

Director   

*      Nikolay Kudryavtsev   

Director   

*      Adrian Lajous   

Director   

*      Michael E. Marks   

Director   

*      Leo Rafael Reif   

Director   

*      Tore Sandvold   

Director   

*      Henri Seydoux   

Director   

*      Linda G. Stuntz   

Director   

/s/    A LEXANDER  C.
J UDEN               *By Alexander C.
Juden Attorney-in-Fact   

February 5, 2010          
   75   

Table of Contents  

          INDEX TO EXHIBITS          
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit    

Form of Option Agreement, Uncapped Non-Qualified Stock Option (for 2001, 2005 and 2008 stock plans)
(+) (*)   
      
  10.12   

Employment Agreement dated January 18, 2007 and effective as of March 1, 2007, between Schlumberger Limited
and Jean-Marc Perraud (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Schlumberger s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 22, 2007) (+)   
      
  10.13   

Employment Agreement dated June 9, 2009 and effective as of May 1, 2009, between Schlumberger Limited and
Dalton Boutte (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Schlumberger s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009)   
      
  10.14   

Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Schlumberger s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on April 22, 2005)   
      
  10.15   

Subsidiaries (*)   
      
  21   

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (*)   
      
  23   

Powers of Attorney (*)     Philippe Camus     Jamie S. Gorelick     Andrew Gould     Tony Isaac     Nikolay Kudryavtsev     Adrian Lajous     Michael E. Marks     Leo Rafael Reif     Tore I. Sandvold     Henri Seydoux     Linda G. Stuntz   
      
  dated:     January 21, 2010   
      
  24   

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  31.1   

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  31.2   

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  32.1   

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  32.2   

The following materials from Schlumberger Limited s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009, formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, (iv) Consolidated Statement of Equity and (v) Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text. (*)   
      
  101   

(*)  
     
  Exhibits physically filed with this Form 10-K. All other exhibits are incorporated by reference.           

(+)  
     
  Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.           
   77   

<EX-10.11>
 2
 dex1011.htm
 FORM OF OPTION AGREEMENT, UNCAPPED INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION

Form of Option Agreement, Uncapped Incentive Stock Option 

Exhibit 10.11
             OPTION AGREEMENT        SCHLUMBERGER [            ] STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION             SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED, a Netherlands Antilles corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to you an incentive stock option (the  ISO ) to
purchase Common Stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share, as more fully described below. The date of grant of this ISO (the  Grant Date ), the ISO exercise price and the number of shares subject to this ISO (collectively, the
 Option Shares ) are set forth in an award notice that has been previously delivered to you. Your ISO is subject to all the terms and conditions of the Schlumberger [            ]
Stock Incentive Plan as in effect on the date hereof (the  Plan ) and this Agreement. Your ISO is intended to constitute an  incentive stock option  under Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the
 Code ) and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.            Except as set forth below, this ISO expires on the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date.            The Option Shares will become purchasable in installments, which are cumulative. The date on which each installment will become exercisable
and the number of shares comprising each installment are as follows:         

DATE   
      
   OPTION SHARES   

1st Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    2nd Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    3rd Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    4th Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    5th Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
          In
keeping with the Company s general policy, the terms of this Agreement, including the vesting schedules, are put in place in certain countries to accommodate local regulations. The vesting schedule above, and therefore your ability to exercise
your ISO at certain times and certain other terms of the ISO, may change if you move from one country to another. Currently, the Company has in place a sub-plan for France which governs stock options issued to Optionees residing in France or who are
on a French payroll.            This ISO may be exercised
only by delivering to the Company a written notice specifying the number of shares you wish to purchase. The Compensation Committee, authorized by the Company to administer the Plan (the  Committee ), hereby notifies you that the ISO price
may be paid, subject to such rules and procedures as the Committee may prescribe from time to time, (1) in cash or certified check, (2) by the delivery of shares of Common Stock of the Company with a fair market value at the time of
exercise equal to the total ISO price or (3) by a combination of the methods described in (1) and (2).            To assist you in the acquisition of shares pursuant to the exercise of this ISO, the Committee in its sole discretion has
authorized the extension of an option financing program coordinated with a third party as posted on the stock options website. The terms and procedures of this program or any such program that the Committee may authorize in the future will be
communicated to you.            This ISO will expire earlier
than the date set forth above if you terminate employment with the Company or a subsidiary (within the meaning of Code Section 424(f)) of the Company. If you terminate employment with consent of the Company or a subsidiary, as applicable, any
exercise of this ISO must be made within three (3) months of termination of employment (or expiration date, if earlier) and then only to the extent the ISO was exercisable upon termination, unless you  retire  or become
 disabled  within the meaning of Section 5 of the Plan, or terminate employment due to death. Section 5 of the Plan provides specific rules for exercise of this ISO on termination of employment due to retirement, disability or
death and its terms are hereby incorporated in this Agreement. If termination of your employment is because of breach of your employment contract or your misconduct, this ISO will immediately expire and terminate. Termination of your employment
without consent of the Company or a subsidiary, as applicable, will cause your ISO to expire immediately.   

This ISO may be
forfeited, and any exercise you have made of this ISO may be rescinded, as further described below, if you engage in certain  detrimental activity  as defined in the Plan. Specifically, if you engage in detrimental activity within one
year following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, this ISO will immediately expire and terminate and the Committee may rescind any exercise that you made under this option within six months preceding or
three months following your termination. If you engage in detrimental activity within five years following termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, this ISO will immediately expire and terminate and the Committee may rescind
any exercise that you made under this option within the period between six months preceding and one year following your termination by retirement or disability. In the event that any option exercise is rescinded by the Committee as described above,
you will be obligated to pay the Company an amount equal to the spread on the shares with respect to which the rescinded exercise applied. (The  spread  for this purpose is the difference between the aggregate exercise price and aggregate
fair market value of the shares as to which you exercised your option, with fair market value determined as of the exercise date.)            As contemplated by the Plan, you may not exercise your ISO or any portion thereof, and no obligation exists to issue or release shares of
stock or accept an exercise of this ISO, if the issuance or release of shares or the acceptance of the ISO exercise by the Company or a subsidiary constitutes a violation of any governmental law or regulation.            This ISO is not transferable or assignable except by will or
laws of descent and distribution and then only to the extent exercisable at death. Any exercise of this ISO after your death must be made by the person or persons entitled to make such exercise under your will or by the laws of descent and
distribution before expiration of the ISO.            The
grant of this ISO is subject to the terms of the Plan, which is discretionary in nature, and the terms of this Agreement. The grant of this ISO is a one-time benefit, and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of
options, or benefits in lieu of options. All determinations with respect to any such future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when options shall be granted, the number of shares subject to each option, the option price, and the time
or times when each option shall be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. Your participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of this ISO is an extraordinary item of compensation that is outside the scope of your oral,
written or implied employment contract, if any. This ISO is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement
benefits or similar payments. The vesting of this ISO ceases upon termination of employment for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan document. In particular, if you terminate employment due to death or disability,
your ISO will become fully vested and exercisable. The future value of the underlying shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.            You (i) authorize the Committee, the Company and the employer entity, and any agent of the Committee administering the Plan or providing
Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Committee, the Company or any of its affiliates such information and data as the Committee or the Company shall request in order to facilitate the grant of options and the administration of the Plan;
(ii) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorize the Company and any such agent to store and transmit such information in electronic form.            If you do not wish to accept this Option Agreement, please
return this Option Agreement to the Stock Option Department or notify the Stock Option Department.            The Plan and prospectus are both available on-line at
 www.[            ].slb.com . A paper copy of the Plan and/or prospectus may be obtained by contacting the Stock Option Department, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17th Floor,
Houston, Texas 77056.          

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED   

By   
     
    /s/    Andrew Gould    

Andrew Gould    

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.12>
 3
 dex1012.htm
 FORM OF OPTION AGREEMENT, UNCAPPED NON-QUALIFIED STOCK

Form of Option Agreement, Uncapped Non-Qualified Stock 

Exhibit 10.12
             OPTION AGREEMENT        SCHLUMBERGER [            ] STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION             SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED, a Netherlands Antilles corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to you a non-qualified stock option (the
 Non-Qualified Option ) to purchase Common Stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share, as more fully described below. The date of grant of this Non-Qualified Option (the  Grant Date ), the Non-Qualified Option exercise price
and the number of shares subject to this Non-Qualified Option (collectively, the  Option Shares ) are set forth in an award notice that has been previously delivered to you. Your Non-Qualified Option is subject to all the terms and
conditions of the Schlumberger [            ] Stock Incentive Plan as in effect on the date hereof (the  Plan ) and this Agreement. Your Non-Qualified Option is not intended to
constitute an  incentive stock option  under Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the  Code ).            Except as set forth below, this Non-Qualified Option expires on the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date.            The Option Shares will become purchasable in installments, which
are cumulative. The date on which each installment will become exercisable and the number of shares comprising each installment are as follows:         

DATE   
      
   OPTION SHARES   

1st Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    2nd Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    3rd Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    4th Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
 
    5th Anniversary of the Grant Date   
      
  20  
  %    
          In
keeping with the Company s general policy, the terms of this Agreement, including the vesting schedules, are put in place in certain countries to accommodate local regulations. The vesting schedule above, and therefore your ability to exercise
your Non-Qualified Option at certain times and certain other terms of the Non-Qualified Option may change if you move from one country to another. Currently, the Company has in place a sub-plan for France which governs stock options issued to
Optionees residing in France or who are on a French payroll.            This Non-Qualified Option may be exercised only by delivering to the Company a written notice specifying the number of shares you wish to purchase. The Compensation Committee, authorized by the Company to
administer the Plan (the  Committee ), hereby notifies you that the Non-Qualified Option price may be paid, subject to such rules and procedures as the Committee may prescribe from time to time, (1) in cash or certified check,
(2) by the delivery of shares of Common Stock of the Company with a fair market value at the time of exercise equal to the total Non-Qualified Option price or (3) by a combination of the methods described in (1) and (2).
           To assist you in the acquisition of shares
pursuant to the exercise of this Non-Qualified Option, the Committee in its sole discretion has authorized the extension of an option financing program coordinated with a third party as posted on the stock department website. The terms and
procedures of this program or any such program that the Committee may authorize in the future will be communicated to you.            This Non-Qualified Option will expire earlier than the date set forth above if you terminate employment with the Company or a subsidiary
(within the meaning of Code Section 424(f)) of the Company. If you terminate employment with consent of the Company or a subsidiary, as applicable, any exercise of this Non-Qualified Option must be made within three (3) months of
termination of employment (or expiration date, if earlier) and then only to the extent the Non-Qualified Option was exercisable upon termination, unless you  retire  or become  disabled  within the meaning of Section 5 of
the Plan, or terminate employment due to death. Section 5 of the Plan provides specific rules for exercise of this Non-Qualified Option on termination of

employment due to retirement, disability or death and its terms are hereby incorporated in this Agreement. If termination of your employment is because of breach of your employment contract or
your misconduct, this Non-Qualified Option will immediately expire and terminate. Termination of your employment without consent of the Company or a subsidiary, as applicable, will cause your Non-Qualified Option to expire immediately.   
        This Non-Qualified Option may be forfeited, and any exercise
you have made of this Non-Qualified Option may be rescinded, as further described below, if you engage in certain  detrimental activity  as defined in the Plan. Specifically, if you engage in detrimental activity within one year
following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, this Non-Qualified Option will immediately expire and terminate and the Committee may rescind any exercise that you made under this option within six months
preceding or three months following your termination. If you engage in detrimental activity within five years following termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, this Non-Qualified Option will immediately expire and terminate
and the Committee may rescind any exercise that you made under this option within the period between six months preceding and one year following your termination by retirement or disability. In the event that any option exercise is rescinded by the
Committee as described above, you will be obligated to pay the Company an amount equal to the spread on the shares with respect to which the rescinded exercise applied. (The  spread  for this purpose is the difference between the aggregate
exercise price and aggregate fair market value of the shares as to which you exercised your option, with fair market value determined as of the exercise date.)         
  As contemplated by the Plan, you may not exercise your Non-Qualified Option or any portion thereof, and no obligation exists to issue or
release shares of stock or accept an exercise of this Non-Qualified Option, if the issuance or release of shares or the acceptance of the Non-Qualified Option exercise by the Company or a subsidiary constitutes a violation of any governmental law or
regulation.            This Non-Qualified Option is not
transferable or assignable except by will or laws of descent and distribution and then only to the extent exercisable at death. Any exercise of this Non-Qualified Option after your death must be made by the person or persons entitled to make such
exercise under your will or by the laws of descent and distribution before expiration of the Non-Qualified Option.            The grant of this Non-Qualified Option is subject to the terms of the Plan, which is discretionary in nature, and the terms of this
Agreement. The grant of this Non-Qualified Option is a one-time benefit, and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of options, or benefits in lieu of options. All determinations with respect to any such future
grants, including, but not limited to, the times when options shall be granted, the number of shares subject to each option, the option price, and the time or times when each option shall be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the
Committee. Your participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of this Non-Qualified Option is an extraordinary item of compensation which is outside the scope of your oral, written or implied employment contract, if any. This Non-Qualified
Option is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. The vesting of this
Non-Qualified Option ceases upon termination of employment for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan document. In particular, if you terminate employment due to death or disability, your Non-Qualified Option will
become fully vested and exercisable. The future value of the underlying shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.            You (i) authorize the Committee, the Company and the employer entity, and any agent of the Committee administering the Plan or providing
Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Committee, the Company or any of its affiliates such information and data as the Committee or the Company shall request in order to facilitate the grant of options and the administration of the Plan;
(ii) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorize the Company and any such agent to store and transmit such information in electronic form.            If you do not wish to accept this Agreement, please return this
Agreement to the Stock Department or notify the Stock Department.   

The Plan and
prospectus are both available on-line at  www.[            ].slb.com . A paper copy of the Plan and/or prospectus may be obtained by contacting the Stock Department, Schlumberger
Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17th Floor, Houston, Texas 77056.          

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED   

By   
     
    /s/    Andrew Gould    

Andrew Gould    

</EX-10.12>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

Subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21
             Significant Subsidiaries             Listed below are the significant first tier subsidiaries of the Registrant,
along with the total number of active subsidiaries directly or indirectly owned by each as of January 1, 2010. Certain second and third tier subsidiaries, though included in the numbers, are also shown by name. Ownership is 100% unless
otherwise indicated. The business activities of the subsidiaries have been keyed as follows: (a) Oilfield Services, (b) WesternGeco, (c) General/Multiple Segments.         

U.S.     
      
   Non-U.S.    

Schlumberger B.V., Netherlands (c)   
      
          1(b)   
      
  55(a)   1    20(b)   2   
    6(c)     
 
    Schlumberger Canada Limited, Ontario (c)   

Schlumberger SA, France (c)   

Services Petroliers Schlumberger, France (a)   

Schlumberger Norge AS (c)   

Schlumberger Antilles N.V., Netherlands Antilles (a)   

2(a)    

Schlumberger Oilfield Holdings Limited, BVI (c)   
      
  1(a)  
      
  136(a)   3        28(b)   4        11(c)   5       
 
    Schlumberger Holdings Limited, BVI (a)   

Dowell Schlumberger Corporation, BVI (a)   

Schlumberger Middle East S.A., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Offshore Services Limited, BVI (a)   

Schlumberger Overseas, S.A., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Seaco, Inc., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Surenco, S.A., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Plc, UK (c)   

Schlumberger Oilfield UK Plc, UK (a)   

WesternGeco Limited, UK (b)   

WesternGeco Seismic Holdings Limited, BVI (b)   

Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Texas (c)   
      
  8(a)   6    3(b) 5(c)  
      
  1(b)                
 
    WesternGeco L.L.C., Delaware (b)   

1   
     
    Includes six majority-owned subsidiaries and one 50%-owned subsidiary.      

2   
     
    Includes one majority-owned subsidiary and one 50%-owned subsidiary.      

3   
     
    Includes seven majority-owned subsidiaries and four 50%-owned subsidiaries.      

4   
     
    Includes five majority-owned subsidiaries.      

5   
     
    Includes one majority-owned subsidiary.      

6   
     
    Includes one majority-owned subsidiary and one 50%-owned subsidiary.      

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23
             Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
            We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-86424; 333-62545; 333-36366; 333-36364; 333-67330; 333-104225; 333-115277; 333-124534; and 333-151920), on Form S-3 (No. 333-108730) and on Form S-4 (No. 333-97899) of Schlumberger Limited of our report
dated February 5, 2010 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.        

/s/    P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP     
 
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP     Houston, Texas    
 
  February 5, 2010    

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of Attorney 

Exhibit 24
             Power of Attorney             Each of the undersigned, in the capacity or capacities set forth below his or
her signature as a member of the Board of Directors and/or an officer of Schlumberger Limited, a Netherlands Antilles corporation ( the Corporation ), hereby appoints Simon Ayat, Howard Guild and Alexander C. Juden, or either of them, the
attorney or attorneys of the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation, for and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned to execute and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Annual Report on Form 10-K under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, and any amendment or amendments to any such Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any agreements, consents or waivers relative thereto,
and to take any and all such other action for and in the name and place and stead of the undersigned as may be necessary or desirable in order to comply with the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder.         

/s/ Philippe Camus    
      
    /s/ Michael E. Marks     
 
    Philippe Camus     Director   
      
    Michael E. Marks     Director    

/s/ Jamie S. Gorelick    
      
    /s/ Leo Rafael Reif     
 
    Jamie S. Gorelick     Director   
      
    Leo Rafael Reif     Director    

/s/ Andrew Gould    
      
    /s/ Tore Sandvold     
 
    Andrew Gould     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
      
    Tore Sandvold     Director    

/s/ Tony Isaac    
      
    /s/ Henri Seydoux     
 
    Tony Isaac     Director   
      
    Henri Seydoux     Director    

/s/ Nikolay Kudryavtsev    
      
    /s/ Linda G. Stuntz     
 
    Nikolay Kudryavtsev     Director   
      
    Linda G. Stuntz     Director    

/s/ Adrian Lajous    

Adrian Lajous     Director   
                 Date: January 21, 2010   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of CEO pursuant to section 302 

Exhibit 31.1
             CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER             I, Andrew Gould, certify that:            1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Schlumberger Limited;            2. Based on my knowledge,
this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report;            3. Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;            4. The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
             5. The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):         

a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.           

Date: February 5, 2010  
     
    /s/    Andrew Gould     

Andrew Gould   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of CFO pursuant to section 302 

Exhibit 31.2
             CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER             I, Simon Ayat, certify that:            1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Schlumberger Limited;            2. Based on my knowledge,
this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report;            3. Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;            4. The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
             5. The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):         

a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.           

Date: February 5, 2010  
     
    /s/    Simon Ayat     

Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of CEO pursuant to section 906 

Exhibit 32.1
             CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
OF 2002             In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Andrew Gould, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:            (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ),            and            (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in
all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Date: February 5, 2010  
     
    /s/    Andrew Gould     

Andrew Gould   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer              A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger
Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.            This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the
Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of CFO pursuant to section 906 

Exhibit 32.2
             CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
OF 2002             In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Simon Ayat, Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:            (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),            and            (2) The information contained in
the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Date: February 5, 2010  
     
    /s/    Simon Ayat     

Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer              A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.            This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 slb-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 slb-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 slb-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 slb-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 slb-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 slb-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

