<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110204_10-K_edgar_data_87347_0000950123-11-009144_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>21113631</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>222978</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4183311</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1139495</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5406444</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>9712497</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>94</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-009144.hdr.sgml : 20110204
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110204132709
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-009144
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110204
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110204

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHLUMBERGER LTD /NV/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000087347
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL, GAS FIELD SERVICES, NBC [1389]
		IRS NUMBER:				520684746
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			P8
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04601
		FILM NUMBER:		11573685

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7135132000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER NV
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920804

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880812

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MyU+NYxR6vcjWG2GSOPB86wrdfatix7RpwD57/t/g7/Gcg1HrouQdOsHd8aIl/pq
 dzD8yZQQ2FhP9KfXgIKziQ==

 0000950123-11-009144.txt : 20110204

10-K
 1
 h77795e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
    Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K   

Commission File Number 1-4601 

Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger
    Limited)  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Registrant s telephone number in the United States,
    including area code, is:

(713) 375-3400 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange 
    Euronext Paris 
    The London Stock Exchange 
    SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.
    YES      NO   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.
    YES      NO    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
    YES      NO   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such files.
    YES      NO   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer      Accelerated
    filer      Non-accelerated
    filer      Smaller
    reporting
    company     
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Act).
    YES      NO    

As of June 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the
    common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant was approximately $65.9 billion.

As of January 31, 2011, the number of shares of common
    stock outstanding was 1,360,993,901.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the following document have been incorporated herein
    by reference into Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    to the extent described therein: the definitive proxy statement
    relating to Schlumberger s 2011 Annual General Meeting of
    Stockholders ( 2011 Proxy Statement ).

SCHLUMBERGER
    LIMITED

Table of Contents

Form 10-K   

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

3

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

7

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

12

Item 2. 

Properties 

12

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

12

Item 4. 

[Removed and Reserved] 

12

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

14

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

16

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

17

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

34

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

36

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

75

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

75

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

75

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance of Schlumberger 

76

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

76

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

76

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

77

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

77

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

78

Signatures 

79

Certifications

EX-21    
     EX-23    
     EX-24    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32.1    
     EX-32.2    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1

PART I  

Item 1.        Business.   

All references in this report to  Registrant, 
     Company,   Schlumberger,   we  or
     our  are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V.,
    incorporated in Cura ao) and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world s leading
    supplier of technology, integrated project management and
    information solutions to the international oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. Having invented wireline
    logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and
    gas wells, the Company today provides the industry s widest
    range of products and services from exploration through
    production. As of December 31, 2010, the Company employed
    approximately 108,000 people of over 140 nationalities
    operating in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger has
    principal executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague.

On August 27, 2010, Schlumberger acquired all of the
    outstanding shares of Smith International, Inc.
    ( Smith ), a leading supplier of premium products and
    services to the oil and gas exploration and production industry.
    In connection with this transaction, Schlumberger issued
    176 million shares of its common stock, valued at
    approximately $9.8 billion as of the acquisition date. As a
    result of this transaction, Schlumberger consists of five
    business segments as of December 31, 2010  
    Schlumberger Oilfield Services, WesternGeco, M-I SWACO, Smith
    Oilfield and Distribution.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services  operates in each of the
    major oilfield service markets, managing its business through
    its GeoMarket* regions, which are grouped into four geographic
    areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and
    Middle East   Asia. The GeoMarket structure offers
    customers a single point of contact at the local level for field
    operations and brings together geographically focused teams to
    meet local needs and deliver customized solutions. Within this
    business structure, Schlumberger Oilfield Services products and
    services are developed by a number of technology-based product
    lines, or Technologies, to capitalize on technical synergies.
    These products and services cover the entire life cycle of the
    reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which
    Schlumberger Oilfield Services holds leading positions. The
    Technologies are also responsible for overseeing operational
    processes, resource allocation, personnel and quality in the
    GeoMarkets.

The Technologies are:

Wireline   provides the information necessary to
    evaluate the subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and
    monitor well construction, and to monitor and evaluate well
    production. Wireline offers both open-hole and cased-hole
    services as well as a range of well remediation services.

Drilling   Measurements   supplies
    engineering support, directional-drilling,
    measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services
    for all well profiles.

Testing Services   provides exploration and production
    pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface
    and downhole. The Technology also provides tubing-conveyed
    perforating services.

Well Services   provides services used during oil and
    gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to
    maintain optimal production throughout the life of a well. The
    services include pressure pumping, well cementing and
    stimulation operations as well as intervention activities. The
    Technology also develops coiled-tubing equipment and services.

Completions   supplies well completion services and
    equipment that includes upper and lower completion systems, sand
    management systems and permanently installed instrumentation for
    all types of well completion.

Artificial Lift   provides electrical submersible
    pumps and gas lift equipment together with associated
    instrumentation, engineering and production optimization
    services.

Data   Consulting Services   supplies
    interpretation and integration of all exploration and production
    data types, as well as expert consulting services for reservoir
    characterization, production enhancement, field development
    planning and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production
    solutions.

3

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1

Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS)   provides
    consulting, software, information management and IT
    infrastructure services that support core oil and gas industry
    operational processes.

Geoservices   supplies mud logging services for
    geological and drilling surveillance. Geological surveillance
    includes formation evaluation to provide information on
    lithology and hydrocarbons encountered while drilling. Drilling
    surveillance enhances safety and optimizes drilling efficiency
    using a range of drilling parameter measurements. Geoservices
    also supplies slickline services for downhole mechanical well
    intervention and reservoir monitoring and downhole data
    acquisition.

Supporting the Technologies are various research and engineering
    centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to
    advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency,
    lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity,
    maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while
    accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound
    manner.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services also offers customers its
    services through a business model known as Integrated Project
    Management (IPM). IPM combines the required services and
    products of the Technologies with drilling rig management
    expertise and project management skills to provide a complete
    solution to well construction and production improvement. IPM
    projects are typically of multi-year duration and include
     start-up 
    costs and significant third-party components which cover
    services that Schlumberger does not provide directly. Projects
    may be fixed price in nature, contain penalties for
    non-performance and may also offer opportunities for bonus
    payments where performance exceeds agreed targets. IPM also
    provides specialized engineering and project management
    expertise when Schlumberger is requested to include these
    capabilities with services and products across the Technologies
    in a single contract. In no circumstances do IPM projects fail
    to respect the Schlumberger business profile that precludes any
    stake in the ownership of oil or gas reserves.

Schlumberger Oilfield Services uses its own personnel to market
    its offerings. The customer base, business risks and
    opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all
    services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering
    facilities as well as research centers, and the labor force is
    interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service,
    and price differentiation are the principal methods of
    competition, which varies geographically with respect to the
    different services offered. While there are numerous
    competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it
    is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well
    testing, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling and
    directional-drilling services, as well as fully computerized
    logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large
    proportion of Schlumberger offerings is non-rig related;
    consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate to rig
    count fluctuations.

WesternGeco , the world s most technologically
    advanced surface seismic company, provides comprehensive
    reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services with the
    most extensive seismic crews and data processing centers in the
    industry as well as a leading multiclient seismic library.
    Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D) seismic surveys to
    multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir
    management. WesternGeco benefits from full access to the
    Schlumberger research, development and technology organization
    and shares similar business risks, opportunities for growth,
    principal methods of competition and means of marketing as
    Schlumberger Oilfield Services. Seismic solutions include
    proprietary single-sensor technologies for enhanced reservoir
    description, characterization and monitoring throughout the life
    of the field   from exploration through enhanced
    recovery. Other WesternGeco solutions include development of
    controlled-source electromagnetic and magneto-telluric surveys
    and their integration with seismic data.

Positioned for meeting a full range of customer needs in land,
    marine and shallow-water transition-zone services, WesternGeco
    offers a wide scope of technologies and services:

Land Seismic   provides comprehensive resources for
    seismic data acquisition on land and across shallow-water
    transition zones.

Marine Seismic   provides industry-standard marine
    seismic acquisition and processing systems as well as a unique
    industry-leading, fully calibrated single-sensor marine seismic
    system that delivers the seismic technology needed for
    new-generation reservoir management.

4

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1

Multiclient Services   supplies high-quality seismic
    data from the multiclient library, including industry-leading Q
    technology data.

Reservoir Services   provides people, tools and
    technology to help customers capture the benefits of a
    completely integrated approach to locating, defining and
    monitoring the reservoir.

Data Processing   offers extensive seismic data
    processing centers for complex data processing projects.

Electromagnetics   provides controlled-source
    electromagnetic and magneto-telluric data processing and
    interpretation.

M-I SWACO  is the leading supplier of drilling fluid
    systems engineered to improve drilling performance by
    anticipating fluids-related problems, fluid systems and
    specialty tools designed to optimize wellbore productivity,
    production technology solution to maximize production rates, and
    environmental solutions that safely manage waste volumes
    generated in both drilling and production operations. The M-I
    SWACO solutions offering blends an understanding of technology,
    application and service to enable its clients to achieve their
    project-specific goals. Operationally, these solutions are
    delivered through its GeoMarket regions, which are grouped into
    geographic areas, similar to Schlumberger Oilfield Services.

M-I SWACO s business is organized into four core solutions
    offerings: Drilling Solutions, Wellbore Productivity, Production
    Technologies and Environmental Solutions. These core offerings
    are organized around the operator s exploration and
    production activities   drilling, completion and
    production. Environmental Solutions are designed to include all
    three of these activities, allowing M-I SWACO to leverage its
    environmental technologies across all three of the
    operator s exploration and production activities.

Drilling Solutions   provides a complete offering of
    oil-, water- and synthetic-based drilling fluids and additives
    as well as engineering services that include proprietary
    software systems, knowledge databases and laboratory
    capabilities.

Wellbore Productivity   consists of a suite of
    services, products and technical support that focus on
    safeguarding well completions and formation stability by
    assuring the optimal quality of the wellbore and fluid systems.

Production Technologies   provides a line of oilfield
    specialty chemical, equipment and related technical services
    that are used to enhance the flow of hydrocarbons from the
    wellbore.

Environmental Solutions   focuses on the best approach
    to safely managing waste volumes produced during the drilling,
    completion and production operations in a way that allows
    clients to achieve their environmental performance standards.

Prior to its acquisition of Smith, Schlumberger held a 40%
    interest in M-I SWACO through a joint venture with Smith.

Smith Oilfield  provides a comprehensive suite of
    technologically advanced products, services and engineering used
    in oil and natural gas development activities. Smith Oilfield is
    a global leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of
    drill bits and borehole enlargement tools and is also a leading
    supplier of drilling tools and services, tubular, completion
    services and other related downhole solutions. Smith Oilfield
    also leverages its proprietary suite of modeling and design
    software and application data together with its comprehensive
    product and service offerings to optimize the creation of the
    wellbore.

Distribution  operations provide products and services to
    the energy refining, petrochemical, power generation and mining
    industries. The segment consists of the operations of Wilson
    International, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary, and a majority
    owned interest in C.E. Franklin Ltd., a publicly owned Canadian
    distribution company. Distribution operates an extensive network
    of supply branches, service centers and sales offices through
    which it markets pipes, valves and fittings as well as mill,
    safety and other maintenance products, predominantly in the
    United States and Canada. Additionally, the Distribution segment
    provides warehouse management, vendor integration and various
    inventory management services.

5

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1

Acquisitions   

Information about acquisitions made by Schlumberger appears in
    Note 4 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .

GENERAL  

Patents   

While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering
    various products and processes, no particular patent or group of
    patents is considered material to Schlumberger s business.

Seasonality   

Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect
    delivery of oilfield services, the widespread geographic
    location of such services precludes the overall business from
    being characterized as seasonal.

Customers and
    Backlog of Orders   

For the year ended December 31, 2010, no single customer
    exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than WesternGeco, we
    have no significant backlog due to the nature of our businesses.
    The WesternGeco backlog, which is based on signed contracts with
    customers, was $0.9 billion at December 31, 2010
    ($1.0 billion at December 31, 2009).

Employees   

As of December 31, 2010, Schlumberger had approximately
    108,000 employees.

Financial
    Information   

Financial information by business segment for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is provided in
    Note 17 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .

Available
    Information   

The Schlumberger Internet website is  www.slb.com. 
    Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website,
    www.slb.com/ir, as a channel for routine distribution of
    important information, including news releases, analyst
    presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes
    available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations
    website at  www.slb.com/ir  access to its Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf
    of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of
    those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
    material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Alternatively, you may
    access these reports at the SEC s Internet website at
     www.sec.gov. 

Schlumberger s corporate governance materials, including
    Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and
    Code of Ethics, may also be found at  www.slb.com/ir.  From
    time to time, corporate governance materials on our website may
    be updated to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the New
    York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) or as desirable to
    promote the effective governance of Schlumberger.

Any stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of
    any of Schlumberger s SEC filings should write to the
    Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17th
    Floor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.

Schlumberger has filed the required certifications under
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as
    Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this
     Form 10-K. 

The information on our website or any other website is not
    incorporated by reference in this Report and should not be
    considered part of this Report or any other filing Schlumberger
    makes with the SEC.

6

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1A

Item 1A.        Risk
    Factors.   

The following discussion of risk factors contains
     forward-looking statements,  which are discussed
    immediately following Item 7A. of this
     Form 10-K. 
    These risk factors may be important to understanding any
    statement in this
     Form 10-K 
    or elsewhere. The following information should be read in
    conjunction with Item 7. Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and
    the consolidated financial statements and related notes included
    in this
     Form 10-K. 

We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below,
    as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the
    SEC and the other information included or incorporated by
    reference in
     Form 10-K. 
    If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this
     Form 10-K 
    were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially
    adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our
    common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of
    your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may
    also materially adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows. 

Demand
    for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on
    the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A
    substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could
    result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.  

Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on
    the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the
    exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas
    reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on the
    industry s view of future oil and natural gas prices and
    are sensitive to the industry s view of future economic
    growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural
    gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas
    prices could also result in project modifications, delays or
    cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or
    nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
    cash flows.

The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been
    volatile and may be affected by a variety of factors, including:

demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide
    population growth, economic growth rates and general economic
    and business conditions;

the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
    ( OPEC ) to set and maintain production levels for oil;

oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries;

the level of excess production capacity;

political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest;

the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production
    activity;

the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;

technological advances affecting energy consumption; and

weather conditions.

The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic
    downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand
    for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we
    charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could
    result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.

7

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1A

A
    significant portion of our revenue is derived from our
     non-United 
    States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing
    business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we
    operate.  

Our
     non-United 
    States operations accounted for approximately 76% of our
    consolidated revenue in 2010, 84% in 2009 and 78% in 2008.
    Operations in countries other than the United States are subject
    to various risks, including:

unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas;

exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other
    governmental actions;

social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;

confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;

deprivation of contract rights;

trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or
    other countries;

restrictions under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act or similar legislation in other countries;

restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;

currency exchange controls;

inflation; and

currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations.

In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our
    operations in countries, including Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba,
    that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other
    restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments
    or organizations. United States law enforcement authorities are
    currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an
    associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in
    certain of these countries. Additionally, in 2009 prior to its
    merger with Schlumberger, Smith received an administrative
    subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in
    certain countries that are subject to United States trade and
    economic sanctions. If any of the risks described above
    materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in
    criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could
    reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.

We are also subject to risks related to investment in our common
    stock in connection with certain US state divestment or
    investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with
    operations in these countries, and similar actions by some
    private investors, which could adversely affect the market price
    of our common stock.

Our
    merger with Smith will continue to be dilutive to our earnings
    per share in the near term, which may negatively affect the
    market price of our common stock.  

Our merger with Smith will continue to be dilutive to earnings
    per share in the near term. Future events and conditions could
    decrease or delay any accretion, result in dilution or cause
    greater dilution than is currently expected, including adverse
    changes in:

energy market conditions;

commodity prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids;

production levels;

reserve levels;

operating results;

competitive conditions;

laws and regulations affecting the energy business;

capital expenditure obligations; and

general economic conditions.

8

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1A

Any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, our
    earnings per share could cause the price of our common stock to
    decline.

Our
    offshore oil and gas operations could be adversely impacted by
    the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil
    spill; changes in and compliance with restrictions or
    regulations on offshore drilling in the US Gulf of Mexico and in
    other areas around the world may adversely affect our business
    and operating results.  

On April 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard
    the semisubmersible drilling rig  Deepwater Horizon , owned
    by Transocean Ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of BP plc.
    As a result of the incident and related oil spill, the Secretary
    of the US Department of the Interior directed the Bureau of
    Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement
    ( BOEMRE ) to issue a suspension, until
    November 30, 2010, of drilling activities for specified
    drilling configurations and technologies. Although this
    moratorium was lifted on October 12, 2010, effective
    immediately, we cannot predict with certainty when drilling
    operations will fully resume in the US Gulf of Mexico. The
    BOEMRE has also issued new guidelines and regulations regarding
    safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment and
    decommissioning applicable to drilling in the US Gulf of Mexico,
    and may take other additional steps that could increase the
    costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of
    operations and result in permitting delays.

At this time, we cannot predict with any certainty what further
    impact, if any, the  Deepwater Horizon  incident may have
    on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and
    development activity, or on the cost or availability of
    insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations.
    Ongoing effects of and delays from the lifted suspension of
    drilling activity in the US Gulf of Mexico, or the enactment of
    new or stricter regulations in the United States and other
    countries where we operate, could materially adversely affect
    our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Environmental
    compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and
    cash available for operations.  

We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations
    relating to importation and use of hazardous materials,
    radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection,
    including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water
    discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to
    continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with
    environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements
    of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex,
    stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for
     strict liability  for damages to natural resources or
    threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render
    a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault
    on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for
    joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and
    releases of hazardous substances.

We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our
    operations. In addition, many of our current and former
    properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes.
    Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material
    liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of
    contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury
    or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases
    of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of
    existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the
    discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition
    of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs
    or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could
    reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We
    believe we are currently in substantial compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations.

We could
    be subject to substantial liability claims, which would
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.  

Certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services,
    such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems,
    subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and
    explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile
    environments, such as exploration, development and production
    applications. An accident or a failure of a product could cause
    personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or
    the environment, and suspension of operations. Our insurance may
    not protect us against liability for some kinds of events,
    including events involving pollution, or against losses
    resulting from business interruption. Moreover, in the future we
    may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage
    or policy limits that we deem adequate. Substantial claims made
    under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. Any
    future damages caused by our products that are not covered by
    insurance, or

9

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1A

are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial
    deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.

If we are
    unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely
    affect any competitive advantage we hold.  

If we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology
    or deliver it to our clients in the form of service offerings in
    a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we
    serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.

Limitations
    on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights,
    including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and
    any competitive advantage we hold.  

Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to
    produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection,
    have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our
    business may be adversely affected if our patents are
    unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not
    sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications
    are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected.
    Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently
    that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or
    gaining access to our trade secrets.

We may be
    subject to litigation if another party claims that we have
    infringed upon its intellectual property rights.  

The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we
    use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual
    property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result
    in significant legal and other costs and may distract management
    from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses
    from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a
    license were not available we might not be able to continue
    providing a particular service or product, which could adversely
    affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies
    would increase our costs.

Failure
    to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede
    our operations.  

We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide
    technical services and support for our business. Competition for
    the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as
    activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become
    more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This
    could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our
    operations.

Severe
    weather conditions may affect our operations.  

Our business may be materially affected by severe weather
    conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the
    evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition,
    if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures,
    this may result in a suspension of activities until the
    platforms or structures have been repaired. Any of these events
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.

Demand
    for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated by
    governmental regulation or a change in the law.  

International, national, and state governments and agencies are
    currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related
    legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting
    greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions. In the United
    States, the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) is
    taking steps to require monitoring and reporting of GHG
    emissions and to regulate GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air
    Act ( CAA ). The EPA s  Mandatory Reporting
    of Greenhouse Gases  rule established a comprehensive
    scheme of regulations that require monitoring and reporting of
    GHG emissions that began in 2010. Furthermore, the EPA recently
    proposed additional GHG reporting rules specifically for the oil
    and gas industry. The EPA has also published a final rule, the
     Endangerment Finding,  finding that GHGs in the
    atmosphere endanger public health and welfare, and that
    emissions of GHGs from mobile sources cause or

10

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1A

contribute to the GHG pollution. Following issuance of the
    Endangerment Finding, the EPA promulgated final motor vehicle
    GHG emission standards on April 1, 2010. The EPA has
    asserted that the final motor vehicle GHG emission standards
    will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for
    stationary sources. In addition, climate change legislation is
    pending in the United States Congress. These developments may
    curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and
    gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus
    adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in
    turn adversely affect future results of operations.
    Additionally, legislation to reduce greenhouse gases may have an
    adverse effect on our operations, including payment of
    additional costs due to carbon emissions. Higher carbon emission
    activities include transportation, including marine vessels,
    cement production (by third party suppliers), and electricity
    generation (by third party suppliers) as well as other
    activities. Finally, our business could be negatively affected
    by climate change related physical changes or changes in weather
    patterns, which could result in damages to or loss of our
    physical assets, impacts to our ability to conduct operations
     and/or 
    disruption of our customers  operations.

Legislation may be introduced in the United States Congress that
    would authorize the EPA to regulate hydraulic fracturing. In
    addition, a number of states are evaluating the adoption of
    legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Such
    legislation or regulations could reduce demand for pressure
    pumping services. If federal
     and/or  state
    legislation or regulations were enacted, it could adversely
    affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows. We are unable to predict whether the proposed
    legislation, regulations, or any other proposals will ultimately
    be enacted.

11

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 1B, 2, 3, 4

Item 1B.        Unresolved
    Staff Comments.   

None.

Item 2.        Properties.   

Schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities,
    administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data
    processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production
    chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses
    throughout the world. Schlumberger views its principal
    manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research
    centers and data processing centers as its  principal owned
    or leased facilities. 

The following sets forth Schlumberger s principal owned or
    leased facilities by business segment:

Oilfield Services:  Beijing, China; Clamart, France;
    Fuchinobe, Japan; Singapore; Abingdon, Cambridge and Stonehouse,
    United Kingdom; Novosibirsk, Russia; and within the United
    States: Boston, Massachusetts; Houston, Rosharon and Sugar Land,
    Texas; and Lawrence, Kansas.

WesternGeco:  Bergen and Oslo, Norway; Gatwick,
    United Kingdom; Houston, Texas, United States; and Mumbai, India.

M-I SWACO:  Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Foss and Aberfly,
    Scotland; Karmoy, Norway; and within the United States: Battle
    Mountain and Greystone, Nevada; Greybull, Wyoming; Amelia and
    Port Fourchon, Louisiana; Galveston and Houston, Texas;
    Florence, Kentucky; and Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Smith Oilfield:  Aberdeen, Scotland; Scurelle, Italy;
    Neuquen, Argentina; Jebel Ali, Dubai; Changzhou, China and
    within the United States: Houston, Texas; Ponca City, Oklahoma;
    Provo, Utah; and Rancho Cucuamonga, California.

Distribution:  Edmonton, Canada; and within the
    United States: LaPorte, Texas; Long Beach, California; and South
    Plainfield, New Jersey.

Item 3   .     Legal
    Proceedings.   

The information with respect to this Item 3 is set forth in
    Note 16 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .

Item 4.        [Removed
    and Reserved]   

Executive
    Officers of Schlumberger   

The following table sets forth, as of January 31, 2011, the
    names and ages of the executive officers of Schlumberger,
    including all offices and positions held by each for at least
    the past five years.

12

Table of Contents   

Part I, Item 4

13

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 5

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.   

As of January 31, 2011, there were approximately 23,924
    stockholders of record. The principal United States market for
    Schlumberger s common stock is the NYSE, where it is traded
    under the symbol  SLB .

Schlumberger s common stock is also traded on the Euronext
    Paris, Euronext Amsterdam, London and SIX Swiss stock exchanges.

Common
    Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per
    Share    

Quarterly high and low prices for Schlumberger s common
    stock as reported by the NYSE (composite transactions), together
    with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2010 and
    2009, were:

On January 21, 2011, Schlumberger announced that its Board
    of Directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend
    of 19%, to $0.25.

There are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or
    ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as
    treasury stock. Under current legislation, stockholders are not
    subject to any Cura ao withholding or other Cura ao
    taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares.

The following graph compares the yearly percentage change in the
    cumulative total stockholder return on Schlumberger common
    stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the
    month of payment into common stock of Schlumberger, with the
    cumulative total return on the Standard   Poor s
    500 Index (S P 500 Index) and the cumulative total return
    on the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX) over the five-year
    period ending on December 31, 2010. The stockholder return
    set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future
    performance. The following graph and related information shall
    not be deemed  soliciting material  or to be
     filed  with the SEC, nor shall such information be
    incorporated by reference into any future filing under the
    Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    except to the extent that Schlumberger specifically incorporates
    it by reference into such filing.

14

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 5

COMPARISON
    OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG 
    SCHLUMBERGER COMMON STOCK, THE S P 500 INDEX AND THE 
    PHILADELPHIA OIL SERVICE INDEX (OSX)

Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2005 in Schlumberger
    common stock, in the S P 500 Index and in the Philadelphia
    Oil Service Index (OSX). Reflects reinvestment of dividends on
    the last day of the month of payment.

15

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 5, 6

Share
    Repurchases   

On April 17, 2008, the Schlumberger Board of Directors
    approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for
    Schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market
    before December 31, 2011.

Schlumberger s common stock repurchase program activity for
    the three months ended December 31, 2010 was as follows:

In connection with the exercise of stock options under
    Schlumberger s incentive compensation plans, Schlumberger
    routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders
    in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options.
    Schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring
    disclosure under this Item 5 as the number of shares of
    Schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not
    material.

Unregistered
    Sales of Equity Securities    

None.

Item 6.       

Selected
    Financial Data.   

The following selected consolidated financial data should be
    read in conjunction with both  Item 7.
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations  and  Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  of this
     Form 10-K 
    in order to understand factors, such as business combinations
    and charges and credits, which may affect the comparability of
    the Selected Financial Data:

(1)

Net Debt  represents
    gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income
    investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt
    provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger
    indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be
    used to repay debt.

16

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Item 7.       

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.   

The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking
    statements, including, without limitation, statements relating
    to our plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions
    and resources. Such forward-looking statements should be read in
    conjunction with our disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk
    Factors  of this Report.

Executive
    Overview   

After two consecutive years of falling oil demand in 2008 and
    2009 induced by the global economic recession, a strong recovery
    occurred in 2010. Consumption averaged 87.7 million barrels
    per day, including an all-time peak of over 89 million
    barrels per day in December, and made the
     year-on-year 
    increase the second largest in three decades. Oil prices
    remained in the range of $65-$85 per barrel for much of 2010,
    but recorded a spike above $90 at the end of the year. The major
    demand forecasts released during 2010 have continued to increase
    as a result of the improving economic outlook  
    particularly in the developing economies. On the supply side,
    the adherence to production quota by the OPEC countries helped
    keep the market balanced, although such adherence diminished
    slightly as the year progressed. Strength in non-OPEC
    production, improvement in new project developments following
    the investment cuts in 2009, and lower production costs helped
    provide additional assurance to the markets.

Natural gas markets behaved differently. Decreasing gas demand
    during the recession, increasing unconventional gas production
    in North America, and the commissioning of a number of new large
    liquefied natural gas export facilities around the world led to
    an over-supplied market with consequent pressure on spot prices.
    Within the United States   the world s largest
    natural gas market   natural gas storage levels have
    remained significantly above the five-year range since March
    2010 despite lower volumes of Canadian gas imports and some
    power generation fuel switching from coal to gas. With natural
    gas price forecasts from the Energy Information Agency for 2011
    slipping by nearly a third compared to initial projections made
    at the beginning of the year, an increasing portion of the
    drilling and completion activity in shale reservoirs has shifted
    to liquid and condensate-rich plays in North America.

Within this market, Schlumberger Oilfield Services full-year
    revenue in 2010 of $22.08 billion grew 8% versus 2009,
    driven by recovery in the North America natural gas market
    through increasing demand and stronger pricing for pressure
    pumping services. The North America Area also benefited from
    greater activity in liquids-rich plays in a number of basins.
    Offshore, the tragic Macondo accident in the US Gulf of Mexico
    led to a shutdown in deepwater operations that severely impacted
    US offshore activity and led to slowdowns in other parts of the
    world, although these were being absorbed as the fourth quarter
    developed. The Middle East and Asia Area revenue climbed 7% from
    a number of factors including increasing wireline logging and
    expanded IPM work. Latin America revenue grew by 2%, with rapid
    growth in Brazil overcoming weaker activity in Mexico as poor
    weather, increasing security concerns and reduced client budgets
    impacted operations. Europe/CIS/Africa revenue decreased 4%
    versus 2009. Among the Technologies, growth was primarily seen
    in Well Services activities, both in volume and in price
    although the acquisition of Geoservices also contributed to the
    increase.

In addition to growing activity, results were underpinned
    through continuing market penetration of new-technology services
    such as Scope* advanced logging-while-drilling measurements,
    Scanner* wireline technologies, and ACTive* coiled-tubing
    services. Scanner services were boosted by the commercial
    introduction of the latest family member, the Dielectric
    Scanner* tool, which was unveiled during the year. As a unique
    industry service capable of measuring saturation in a variety of
    reservoir applications, the service completed a two-year pilot
    project in Saudi Arabia targeted at reservoir monitoring, where
    35 logs were recorded in various fields, both on land and
    offshore, to assess water flooding sweep efficiency as an aid to
    field development planning.

In reservoir production, ACTive real-time coiled tubing services
    saw growth, particularly with ACTive conveyance of Wireline Flow
    Scanner* production logging technology, and with fiber-optic
    continuous measurements of temperature and pressure along the
    well bore. Growing deployment of integrated technologies such as
    these confirms exciting growth possibilities across the
    Schlumberger technology portfolio particularly in horizontal and
    extended-reach wells.

It was however drilling services that displayed early evidence
    of the opportunities provided by the acquisitions of Geoservices
    and Smith International that were announced during the first
    quarter. These successes included the completion of a remote
    three-well exploration project offshore Greenland that used
    Schlumberger technologies combined with Smith and M-I SWACO
    products and services as well as Geoservices mud logging. In
    Brazil, a similar combination of services helped one well record
    substantial increases in rates of penetration, while meeting all

17

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

directional drilling goals. In this particular case the
    integrated nature of the bottomhole assembly demonstrated how
    technology optimization can impact performance in the high-cost
    deepwater drilling environment. A third such operation offshore
    Indonesia further displayed the value of integrated bottomhole
    assemblies.

WesternGeco revenue of $1.99 billion in 2010 was 6% lower
    than 2009 primarily as a result of lower Marine activity and
    weaker pricing. While Land activity was also weaker, strong
    Multiclient sales, particularly in the fourth quarter, were able
    to offset some of these effects. New seismic technology scored
    some significant successes with penetration of marine
    single-vessel, full-azimuth coil shooting surveys into a number
    of the major offshore basins around the world. Coil shooting,
    unique to Schlumberger, brings better illumination of complex
    pre-salt,
     sub-salt  and
     sub-basalt 
    formations in a variety of environments.

The integration of Geoservices and Smith International proceeded
    smoothly during the year. The complementary nature of many of
    the product and service lines concerned helped the process while
    a network of integration teams and Area coordinators rapidly
    identified revenue and cost-synergy opportunities that
    contributed to results in 2010 and that augur well for 2011.
    Total Schlumberger 2010 results reflect four months activity
    from the acquired Smith businesses, which contributed revenue of
    $3.30 billion.

In a related move, Schlumberger signed a letter of intent with
    Eurasia to swap certain assets in Russia to build critical mass
    in drilling services. Under the terms of this agreement, Eurasia
    will acquire a number of Schlumberger-owned drilling rigs, while
    Schlumberger will acquire a range of Eurasia service assets
    including directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling, well
    cementing and drilling fluids. Further, both companies agreed to
    enter a strategic alliance upon completion of the transaction
    whereby Schlumberger will become the preferred supplier of
    drilling services to Eurasia Drilling for up to 200 rigs for a
     5-year 
    period. This agreement not only increases the market for our
    services across the rig fleet of the largest Russian drilling
    company, it also encourages the development of
     fit-for-purpose 
    bottom-hole assembly technology development as drilling
    intensity increases in Russia in order to sustain hydrocarbon
    production.

Two years ago we began a program called  Excellence in
    Execution . This was designed to create a step change in
    our service quality and efficiency and, in deepwater, was aimed
    at enabling clients to reduce the risk and cost of their
    deepwater operations. The program, in addition to equipment and
    procedural improvements, provides for competency certification
    of all personnel involved in deepwater operations. We have been
    encouraged by the initial results of this multiyear initiative,
    as well as by our customers  acceptance of it. While
    additional control and oversight will undoubtedly add cost, this
    will be offset in the long run by improvements in operating
    procedures and technology. We therefore welcome current efforts
    to better understand and control the risks associated with
    deepwater operations.

For 2011, economic projections for world real GDP growth are
    converging towards a median estimate of 4.2%, slightly lower
    than the 2010 level, and still with a significant level of
    uncertainty. A large gap exists between GDP growth rates of
    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and
    non-OECD countries   particularly in China and in
    other developing Asian economies. However there is remarkable
    agreement on various oil demand forecasts for 2011, which all
    lie within 1.4 million barrels per day of each other.

As we look forward to 2011 it is therefore important to remember
    that the primary driver of our business has always been, and
    will remain, the demand for oil and gas. Oil prices have moved
    into a range that will encourage increased investment,
    particularly in exploration, which remains the swing factor in
    operators  budgets. While we do not anticipate any
    substantial recovery in deepwater US Gulf of Mexico, we do
    expect a marked increase in deepwater activity in the rest of
    the world. These factors, coupled with increases in development
    activity and production enhancement in many other areas, promise
    stronger growth rates as the year unfolds.

For natural gas, activity in the United States is likely to
    remain strong   at least through the first half of the
    year   due to the commitments necessary to retain
    leases, the backlog of wells to be completed, and the
    contribution of natural gas liquids to overall project
    economics. Increased service capacity, however, will negatively
    affect pricing at some stage during the year.

Overseas, the governing factor on gas activity, particularly in
    the Middle East, will be the ability of many nations to use gas
    as a substitute for oil to meet increased local energy demand,
    thus freeing up more liquids for export. Elsewhere the long lead
    time necessary to execute large gas projects for LNG exports
    will ensure that a certain level of activity is maintained.

Unconventional gas resources will continue to attract
    considerable interest outside North America. The leading
    activity will continue to be in conventional gas in tight, or
    low permeability, reservoirs, and in coal-bed methane

18

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

developments. There will be exploration activity around the
    potential that shale gas offers in many other parts of the world.

Increased activity coupled with the greater technology needs of
    higher exploration, deepwater, and tight gas
    activity   particularly outside North
    America   will make 2011 a stronger year for
    Schlumberger. The importance of risk reduction and the
    minimization of drilling cost make the acquisitions of
    Geoservices and Smith major contributors to our future growth in
    this scenario.

The following discussion and analysis of results of operations
    should be read in conjunction with the  Consolidated Financial
    Statements .

Fourth Quarter
    2010 Results   

(1)

The third quarter of 2010 includes
    one month of post-merger activity following the Smith
    transaction on August 27, 2010. See Note 4 to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements  for further details.

(2)

Comprised principally of corporate
    expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on
    postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs,
    amortization expense associated with intangible assets recorded
    as a result of the merger with Smith and certain other
    nonoperating items.

(3)

Excludes interest income included
    in the segments  income (fourth quarter 2010  
    $1 million; third quarter 2010   $2 million).

(4)

Excludes interest expense included
    in the segments  income (fourth quarter 2010 -
    $2 million; third quarter 2010   $- million).

(5)

Charges and credits are described
    in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial
    Statements .

Oilfield
    Services    

Fourth-quarter revenue of $6.01 billion increased 9%
    sequentially. Sequentially, North America Area revenue increased
    27% on strong activity on land in the US and Canada as well as
    from the early payout of an IPM gain share project. In the
    Middle East   Asia Area, revenue grew on year-end
    equipment, Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) software
    sales, and on higher activity in the Iraq, East Asia and
    Indonesia GeoMarkets. Europe/CIS/Africa Area revenue increased
    from stronger activity in the North Sea, West   South
    Africa, Caspian and Continental Europe GeoMarkets, as well as
    from year-end SIS software sales. These increases were partially
    offset by a decrease in Latin America Area revenue primarily due
    to continuing weakness in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket.

All Technologies recorded sequential growth, most notably Well
    Services due to continuing strong activity in North America, and
    SIS and Artificial Lift from year-end sales. IPM revenue also
    increased as a result of the early payout on the IPM project in
    North America.

19

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Fourth-quarter pretax operating income of $1.33 billion
    increased 21% sequentially. Pretax operating margin increased
    224 bps sequentially to 22.1% primarily driven by the
    robust performance in North America and strong contributions
    from the year-end equipment and software sales.

North
    America  

Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.60 billion increased 27%
    sequentially and pretax operating income of $385 million
    was 75% higher.

Sequentially, revenue in US land grew 24% versus a 4% increase
    in rig count due to a combination of additional service
    capacity, improved utilization, and high service intensity that
    mostly benefited Well Services technologies. Canada revenue grew
    from higher land activity for Well Services, although this was
    partially offset by a slowdown in offshore activity that
    impacted Drilling   Measurements services. The US Gulf
    of Mexico revenue increased through a modest improvement in
    shelf activity and from Completion Systems equipment sales. An
    $87 million early payout relating to services on an IPM
    gain share project   triggered by the customer s
    sale of the field   also contributed to Area growth.

Pretax operating margin for the Area increased 658 bps
    sequentially to 24.0%. This increase was largely driven by US
    land through stronger activity and increased efficiency for Well
    Services operations. The IPM gain share payout contributed
    approximately $55 million to Area pretax operating income.

Latin
    America  

Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.05 billion decreased 2% versus
    the prior quarter. Pretax operating income of $174 million
    increased 9% compared to the third quarter of 2010.

Sequentially, the Brazil GeoMarket achieved record high revenue
    on strong deepwater activity, while revenue in the
    Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket grew from higher gain share on
    IPM activity in Colombia and from Testing Services equipment
    sales in Peru. These increases, however, were insufficient to
    offset a significant revenue drop in the Mexico/Central America
    GeoMarket where continuing security issues and client budgetary
    constraints further reduced IPM activity levels.

Pretax operating margin improved 171 bps sequentially to
    16.6% primarily due to a more favorable revenue mix in the
    Peru/Colombia/Ecuador and Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago
    GeoMarkets.

Europe/CIS/Africa  

Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.78 billion increased 3%
    compared to the third quarter of 2010. Pretax operating income
    of $339 million increased 7% sequentially.

Sequentially, revenue in the North Sea GeoMarket increased
    primarily from higher activity in Norway and from year-end SIS
    software sales. In the West   South Africa GeoMarket,
    revenue grew on stronger activity that benefited Wireline and
    Drilling   Measurements services and on higher
    Completion Systems equipment sales. Caspian GeoMarket revenue
    increased from the startup of several projects that resulted in
    higher demand for Drilling   Measurements, Testing
    Services and Wireline technologies as well as from a Well
    Services equipment sale. Continental Europe revenue grew on
    higher activity for Well Services and Testing Services
    technologies and on year-end SIS software sales. These
    increases, however, were partially offset by a decrease in
    Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea GeoMarket revenue from lower
    Completion Systems equipment sales and from delays that reduced
    demand for Wireline services. Russia revenue was also lower with
    the onset of the winter slowdown.

Pretax operating margin improved sequentially by 74 bps to
    19.0% primarily from a stronger mix of high-margin Wireline and
    Drilling   Measurements services in the North Sea and
    West   South Africa GeoMarkets as well as from
    year-end SIS software sales across much of the Area. These
    increases were partially offset by the impact of the activity
    weakness in the Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea GeoMarket.

Middle
    East   Asia  

Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.49 billion increased 6%
    sequentially. Pretax operating income of $434 million
    increased 2% sequentially.

20

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Sequentially, revenue growth resulted from the continued ramp up
    of IPM activity in Iraq and the start of new offshore projects
    in East Asia. Year-end sales of Artificial Lift and Completion
    Systems equipment, Well Services products, and SIS software also
    contributed to Area growth. These increases were partially
    offset by lower revenue in the Australia/Papua New Guinea
    GeoMarket resulting from offshore project completions and delays
    in land activity due to severe flooding, and by lower activity
    in the Qatar GeoMarket that reduced demand for Wireline and
    Drilling   Measurements services.

Pretax operating margin decreased 119 bps sequentially to
    29.1% as the positive contribution from the year-end sales and a
    more favorable revenue mix in the Arabian GeoMarket were
    insufficient to offset the impact of the lower activity in the
    Australia/Papua New Guinea GeoMarket and startup costs in Iraq.

WesternGeco    

Fourth-quarter revenue of $560 million increased 17%
    sequentially. Pretax operating income of $113 million
    increased 183% sequentially.

Sequentially, revenue growth was driven by Multiclient, which
    recorded strong year-end sales from the US Gulf of Mexico. This
    increase was partially offset by a decrease in Marine revenue
    due to the seasonal slow-down in activity. Land and Data
    Processing revenues were flat sequentially.

Pretax operating margin increased 11.8 percentage points
    sequentially to 20.2% as the result of the high Multiclient
    sales partially offset by the impact of the lower Marine
    activity.

Full-Year 2010
    Results   

(1)

2010 includes four months of
    post-merger activity following the transaction with Smith on
    August 27, 2010. See Note 4 to the  Consolidated
    Financial Statements  for further details.

(2)

Comprised principally of corporate
    expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on
    postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs,
    amortization expense associated with intangible assets recorded
    as a result of the merger with Smith and certain other
    nonoperating items.

(3)

Excludes interest income included
    in the segments  income (2010   $7 million;
    2009   $10 million).

(4)

Excludes interest expense included
    in the segments  income (2010   $5 million;
    2009   $33 million).

(5)

Charges and credits are described
    in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial
    Statements .

Oilfield
    Services    

Full-year 2010 revenue of $22.08 billion was 8% higher than
    2009. Revenue growth was strongest in the North America Area
    mostly as a result of higher activity and pricing for Well
    Services technologies in US Land but partially offset by

21

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

reduced activity in the US Gulf of Mexico. Latin America revenue
    increased on strong activity in the Brazil and
    Peru/Ecuador/Colombia GeoMarkets partially offset by reduced IPM
    activity in Mexico/Central America due to client budgetary
    constraints. Middle East   Asia Area revenue grew from
    higher drilling activity in the Australia/Papua New Guinea,
    China/Japan/Korea and East Asia GeoMarkets as well as from
    increased IPM activity and strong demand for Well Services
    technologies in the Middle Eastern GeoMarkets. The addition of
    Geoservices also contributed to the increased revenue. These
    increases were partially offset by a decrease in
    Europe/CIS/Africa revenue as reduced activity in the North
    Africa, Libya, Caspian and Continental GeoMarkets and generally
    lower pricing across the Area offset higher activity in Russia.

Year-on-year, 
    pretax operating margin declined 82 bps to 20.3% as a
    significant improvement in North America Area performance was
    insufficient to offset the reduced activity and weaker pricing
    in the Europe/CIS/Africa Area and lower IPM activity in Latin
    America.

North
    America  

Revenue of $5.01 billion was 35% higher than last year
    primarily due to strong activity in unconventional oil and gas
    reservoirs, improved pricing in US Land for Well Services
    technologies and improved activity levels in oil basins in
    Canada. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in
    the US Gulf of Mexico revenue as a six-month moratorium on
    drilling and lingering uncertainty about rules for operating
    resulted in the stoppage of deepwater drilling activity.

Year-on-year, 
    pretax operating margin increased 10 percentage points to
    16.0% mostly due to the stronger activity and improved pricing
    in the US land, partially offset by the impact of the activity
    slow-down in the US Gulf of Mexico.

Latin
    America  

Revenue of $4.32 billion was 2% higher than the previous
    year. Growth was strongest in the Brazil GeoMarket where higher
    offshore activity increased demand for Wireline and
    Drilling   Measurements services technologies. Revenue
    also increased significantly in the Peru/Ecuador/Colombia
    GeoMarket due to strong IPM activity and higher Artificial Lift
    systems sales. The addition of Geoservices also contributed to
    the growth. These increases were partially offset by a decrease
    in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket revenue as client
    budgetary constraints reduced IPM activity.

Year-on-year, 
    pretax operating margin decreased 110 bps to 16.7%
    primarily due to the reduced activity levels in Mexico/Central
    America partially offset by the impact of lower costs in
    Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago.

Europe/CIS/Africa  

Revenue of $6.88 billion was 4% lower
     year-on-year. 
    This decrease was largely attributable to lower pricing across
    much of the Area and reduced activity in the North Africa,
    Libya, Caspian and Continental Europe GeoMarkets. These
    decreases were partially offset by increases in Russia due to
    higher IPM activity. The addition of Geoservices also
    contributed to Area revenue.

Year-on-year, 
    pretax operating margin decreased 543 bps to 18.4%
    primarily due to the lower overall activity levels and reduced
    pricing.

Middle
    East   Asia  

Revenue of $5.59 billion was 7% higher than the previous
    year primarily due to strong drilling activity in Asia,
    particularly in the Australia/Papua New Guinea,
    China/Japan/Korea and East Asia GeoMarkets, and to increased IPM
    activity and strong demand for Well Services technologies in the
    Middle Eastern GeoMarkets. The addition of Geoservices also
    increased Area revenue.

Year-on-year, 
    pretax operating margin decreased 199 bps to 30.4%
    primarily due the impact of lower pricing across the Area.

WesternGeco    

Full-year 2010 revenue of $1.99 billion was 6% lower than
    the prior year primarily due to reduced activity and pricing in
    Marine. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in
    Multiclient revenue as the result of increased acquisition and
    sales of wide-azimuth surveys in the US Gulf of Mexico.

22

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Year-on-year, 
    pretax operating margin decreased 194 bps to 13.4% as the
    result of the lower pricing and activity in Marine and reduced
    profitability in Land and Data Processing. These decreases were
    partially offset by an improvement in Multiclient margins on the
    increased activity.

Full-Year 2009
    Results   

(1)

Comprised principally of corporate
    expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on
    postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs
    and certain other nonoperating items.

(2)

Excludes interest income included
    in the segments  income (2009   $10 million;
    2008   $7 million).

(3)

Excludes interest expense included
    in the segments  income (2009   $33 million;
    2008   $30 million).

(4)

Charges and credits are described
    in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

Oilfield
    Services    

Full-year 2009 revenue of $20.52 billion declined 16%
    versus 2008. Lower natural gas prices and unfavorable market
    fundamentals resulted in a 37% decline in North America revenue,
    primarily in the US Land and Canada GeoMarkets.
    Europe/CIS/Africa revenue decreased 13% mainly due to the
    weakening of local currencies against the US dollar and reduced
    activity in the Russia, North Sea, West   South Africa
    and Caspian GeoMarkets as well as in Framo, which was partially
    offset by increased activity in the North Africa GeoMarket.
    Middle East   Asia revenue also fell by 9% primarily
    due to decreases in the East Asia, East Mediterranean, Arabian
    and Australia/Papua New Guinea GeoMarkets. Latin America revenue
    was only marginally lower than last year as the impact of the
    weakening of local currencies against the US dollar and much
    lower activity in Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago and
    Peru/Colombia/Ecuador were nearly offset by stronger activity in
    Mexico/Central America and Brazil. Weakening of local currencies
    against the US dollar reduced 2009 revenue by approximately 4%.
    Across the Areas, all of the Technologies recorded revenue
    declines except Testing Services. IPM recorded revenue growth
    compared to the same period last year.

Full-year 2009 pretax operating margin decreased
    5.7 percentage points to 21.1%, on the significant drop in
    activity and pricing pressure experienced across all the Areas,
    but most notably in North America.

North
    America  

Revenue of $3.71 billion was 37% lower than last year with
    reductions across the entire Area. The decreases were highest in
    US Land and Canada, where lower natural gas prices resulted in a
    steep drop in activity and consequent pressure on pricing.
    Canada revenue was also lower as the result of the weakening of
    the Canadian dollar against the US dollar. Revenue in the
    US Gulf of Mexico GeoMarket was severely impacted by weaker
    shelf drilling activity and strong pricing pressure.

Pretax operating margin fell 17.3 percentage points to 5.8%
    due to the significant decline in activity levels across the
    Area, combined with the severe pricing erosion.

23

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Latin
    America  

Revenue of $4.22 billion was marginally lower compared to
    2008. The weakening of local currencies against the
    US dollar reduced 2009 revenue by approximately 3%. In
    addition, Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago revenue fell due
    to significantly reduced customer spending while
    Peru/Colombia/Ecuador revenue was lower due to reduced gain
    share in IPM projects. These decreases were mostly offset by
    higher IPM activity in Mexico/Central America and increased
    offshore activity in Brazil.

Pretax operating margin decreased 245 bps to 17.8%
    primarily as the result of the sharp activity decline in
    Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago and the lower gain share
    in Peru/Colombia/Ecuador.

Europe/CIS/Africa  

Revenue of $7.15 billion was 13% lower than last year
    largely due to the weakening of local currencies against the
    US dollar, which reduced revenue by approximately 7%. In
    addition, revenue was negatively impacted by reduced customer
    spending that resulted in significantly lower activity and
    pricing erosion in Russia and the North Sea. Revenue in the
    West   South Africa and Caspian GeoMarkets and in
    Framo was also negatively impacted by lower activity levels.
    These decreases were partially offset by a revenue increase in
    the North Africa GeoMarket due to strong Testing Services
    product sales.

Pretax operating margins declined 357 bps to 23.9% on a
    combination of the overall lower activity and heavy pricing
    pressure across the Area.

Middle
    East   Asia  

Revenue of $5.23 billion was 9% below 2008. Revenue was
    down across much of the Middle East, especially in the East
    Mediterranean and Arabian GeoMarkets, due to reduced demand for
    Drilling   Measurements, Wireline and Testing Services
    technologies. Revenue in Asia also fell, primarily due to a
    decrease in offshore exploration activity, which was most
    significant in the East Asia and Australia/Papua New Guinea
    GeoMarkets, resulting in lower demand for Testing Services and
    Wireline technologies as well as Completion Systems products.

Pretax operating margin decreased 268 bps to 32.4%
    primarily as a result of the lower overall activity and a less
    favorable revenue mix across the Area.

WesternGeco    

Full-year revenue of $2.12 billion was 25% lower than 2008.
    Revenue decreased across all product lines, with the largest
    declines experienced in Marine and Multiclient. Marine revenue
    declined due to lower activity combined with reduced pricing as
    the result of weak market conditions. Multiclient revenue
    decreased primarily in North America, as customers continued to
    reduce discretionary spending. Land revenue fell on lower crew
    utilization, while Data Processing revenue was down reflecting
    lower activity primarily in Europe/Africa and in North America.

Pretax margin decreased 14.1 percentage points to 15.4%
    primarily due to the weaker Marine activity and pricing as well
    as lower Multiclient sales.

Interest
    and Other Income    

Interest and other income consisted of the following:

24

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Interest
    Income    

The average return on investments decreased to 1.2% in 2010 from
    1.4% in 2009 and the weighted average investment balance of
    $4.0 billion in 2010 decreased $0.5 billion compared
    to 2009.

The average return on investments decreased to 1.4% in 2009 from
    3.5% in 2008 and the weighted average investment balance of
    $4.5 billion in 2009 increased $1.1 billion compared
    to 2008.

Equity in
    Net Earnings of Affiliated Companies    

Equity income from the M-I SWACO joint venture in 2010
    represents eight months of equity income through the closing of
    the Smith transaction. The decrease in equity income relating to
    this joint venture from 2008 to 2009 was attributable to a
    significant decline in M-I SWACO activity levels, primarily in
    its United States and Europe/Africa regions, as well as
    increased pricing pressures.

Interest
    Expense    

Interest expense of $207 million in 2010 decreased by
    $14 million compared to 2009 due to a decline in the
    weighted average borrowing rates, from 3.9% to 3.2%. The
    weighted average debt balance of $6.4 billion in 2010
    increased $0.8 billion compared to 2009.

Interest expense of $221 million in 2009 decreased by
    $26 million compared to 2008 primarily due to a decline in
    the weighted average borrowing rates, from 4.5% to 3.9%.

Other    

Gross margin was 21.7%, 24.0% and 30.2% in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

The decline in gross margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was
    primarily attributable to the inclusion of the acquired Smith
    businesses as well as pricing pressure for Oilfield Services,
    particularly in the Europe/CIS/Africa Area, partially offset by
    improved activity levels and pricing in the North America Area.

The decline in gross margin in 2009 compared to 2008 was
    primarily attributable to lower activity coupled with the impact
    of a significant reduction in pricing across all of Oilfield
    Services, most notably in North America and Europe/CIS/Africa.
    Weaker Marine activity and pricing and reduced Multiclient sales
    in WesternGeco also contributed to the margin decline.

Research   engineering  and 
    General   administrative  expenses, as a percentage
    of  Revenue , were as follows:

Research   engineering  expenditures were as
    follows:

Income
    Taxes    

The Schlumberger effective tax rate was 17.3% in 2010, 19.6% in
    2009, and 20.9% in 2008.

The Schlumberger effective tax rate is sensitive to the
    geographic mix of earnings. When the percentage of pretax
    earnings generated outside of North America increases, the
    Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally decrease.
    Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated
    outside of North America decreases, the Schlumberger effective
    tax rate will generally increase.

25

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

The effective tax rate for 2010 was significantly impacted by
    the charges and credits described in Note 3 to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements . The effective tax rate
    for 2009 was also impacted by charges, but to a much lesser
    extent. Excluding charges and credits, the effective tax rate in
    2010 was approximately 20.6% compared to 19.2% in 2009. This
    increase is largely attributable to the geographic mix of
    earnings as well as the inclusion of four months results from
    the merger with Smith. Smith, which as a US company has a US tax
    rate applicable to its worldwide operations and as such, will
    serve to increase Schlumberger s overall effective tax rate.

The decrease in the Schlumberger effective tax rate in 2009 as
    compared to 2008 was primarily attributable to the geographic
    mix of earnings. Schlumberger generated a lower proportion of
    its pretax earnings in North America in 2009 as compared to
    2008. In addition, outside North America, various GeoMarkets
    with lower tax rates contributed a greater percentage to pretax
    earnings in 2009 as compared to 2008.

Charges and
    Credits     

Schlumberger recorded significant charges and credits in
    continuing operations during 2010, 2009 and 2008. These charges
    and credits, which are summarized below, are more fully
    described in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial
    Statements .

The following is a summary of the 2010 charges and credits:

The following is a summary of the 2009 charges:

The following is a summary of the 2008 charges:

26

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Cash
    Flow    

Net Debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments
    and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management
    believes that Net Debt provides useful information regarding the
    level of Schlumberger s indebtedness by reflecting cash and
    investments that could be used to repay debt.

Details of Net Debt follow:

(1)

Includes multiclient seismic data
    costs.

Key liquidity events during 2010, 2009 and 2008 included:

As a result of the Smith merger, Schlumberger assumed net debt
    of $1.8 billion. This amount consisted of $2.2 billion
    of debt (including a $0.4 billion adjustment to increase
    Smith s long-term fixed rate debt to its estimated fair
    value) and $0.4 billion of cash.

During the second quarter of 2010, Schlumberger completed the
    acquisition of Geoservices for cash of $0.9 billion.
    Schlumberger assumed net debt of $0.1 billion in connection
    with this transaction.

27

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, Schlumberger
    repurchased the following debt:

The premium paid in excess of the carrying value to repurchase
    the $1.275 billion of debt was approximately
    $67 million.

During the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger entered into a
     3.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note program. This
    program provides for the issuance of various types of debt
    instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes in Euro, US
    dollar or other currencies.

Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 2.75% Guaranteed
    Notes due 2015 in the fourth quarter of 2010 under this program.
    Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes
    for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively
    making this a US denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay
    interest in US dollars at a rate of 2.56%. The proceeds from
    these notes will be used for general corporate purposes.

During the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger issued
     1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2014 under
    this program. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these
    euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity,
    effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which
    Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.95%.
    The proceeds from these notes were used to refinance existing
    debt obligations and for general corporate purposes.

During the third quarter of 2009, Schlumberger issued
    $450 million of 3.00% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. The
    proceeds from these notes were used to refinance existing debt
    obligations.

In September 2008, Schlumberger issued  500 million
    5.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. Schlumberger entered into
    agreements to swap these Euro notes for US dollars on the date
    of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar
    denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US
    dollars at a rate of 4.74%. The proceeds from these notes were
    used to repay commercial paper borrowings.

On April 20, 2006, the Schlumberger Board of Directors
    approved a share repurchase program of up to 40 million
    shares of common stock to be acquired in the open market before
    April 2010, subject to market conditions. This program was
    completed during the second quarter of 2008.

On April 17, 2008, the Schlumberger Board of Directors
    approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for shares
    of Schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market
    before December 31, 2011, of which $3.15 billion had
    been repurchased as of December 31, 2010.

The following table summarizes the activity under these share
    repurchase programs during 2010, 2009 and 2008:

28

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

income experienced in 2009 and the significant pension plan
    contributions made during 2009, offset by an improvement in
    working capital requirements.

At times in recent periods, Schlumberger has experienced delays
    in payments from certain of its customers. Schlumberger operates
    in approximately 80 countries. At December 31, 2010, only
    three of those countries individually accounted for greater than
    5% of Schlumberger s accounts receivable balance of which
    only one, the United States, represented greater than 10%.

In January 2011, Schlumberger announced that its Board of
    Directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of
    19%, to $0.25.

Schlumberger s international defined benefit pension plans
    are a combined 92% funded at December 31, 2010 based on the
    projected benefit obligation. This compares to 85% funded at
    December 31, 2009.

Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing approximately
    $600 million to $650 million to its postretirement
    benefit plans in 2011, subject to market and business conditions.

At December 31, 2008, there were no outstanding
    Series A debentures. There were $321 million
    outstanding Series B debentures at December 31, 2009.
    During 2010, $320 million of the 2.125% Series B
    Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023 were converted by
    holders into 8.0 million shares of Schlumberger common
    stock and the remaining $1 million of outstanding
    Series B debentures were redeemed for cash.

As of December 31, 2010, Schlumberger had approximately
    $5.0 billion of cash and short-term investments on hand.
    Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements
    aggregating $6.0 billion with commercial banks, of which
    $3.7 billion was available and unused as of
    December 31, 2010. This included $4.9 billion of
    committed facilities which support commercial paper borrowings
    in the United States and Europe. Schlumberger believes that
    these amounts are sufficient to meet future business
    requirements for at least the next twelve months.

Schlumberger s total outstanding debt at December 31,
    2010 was $8.1 billion and included approximately
    $1.9 billion of commercial paper borrowings. The total
    outstanding debt increased approximately $2.6 billion
    compared to December 31, 2009.

On January 10, 2011, Schlumberger issued $1.1 billion
    of 4.200% Senior Notes due 2021 and $500 million of
    2.650% Senior Notes due 2016.

29

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

Summary of
    Major Contractual Obligations    

(1)

Excludes future payments for
    interest.

(2)

Represents an estimate of
    contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business.
    Although these contractual obligations are considered
    enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow
    Schlumberger the option to reschedule and adjust its
    requirements based on business needs prior to the delivery of
    goods.

Refer to Note 18 of the  Consolidated Financial
    Statements  for details regarding Schlumberger s pension
    and other postretirement benefit obligations.

As discussed in Note 14 of the  Consolidated Financial
    Statements , included in the Schlumberger  Consolidated
    Balance Sheet  at December 31, 2010 is approximately
    $1.17 billion of liabilities associated with uncertain tax
    positions in the over 100 jurisdictions in which Schlumberger
    conducts business. Due to the uncertain and complex application
    of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting
    when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded,
    Schlumberger cannot make reliable estimates of the timing of
    cash outflows relating to these liabilities.

Schlumberger has outstanding letters of credit/guarantees which
    relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax
    commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. These were
    entered into in the ordinary course of business and are
    customary practices in the various countries where Schlumberger
    operates.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates    

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures
    in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
    the United States requires Schlumberger to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
    and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. The following
    accounting policies involve  critical accounting
    estimates  because they are particularly dependent on
    estimates and assumptions made by Schlumberger about matters
    that are inherently uncertain. A summary of all of
    Schlumberger s significant accounting policies is included
    in Note 2 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .

Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on
    various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
    circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
    judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
    that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
    may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions.

Multiclient
    Seismic Data  

The WesternGeco segment capitalizes the costs associated with
    obtaining multiclient seismic data. The carrying value of the
    multiclient seismic data library at December 31, 2010 and
    2009 was $394 million and $288 million, respectively.
    Such costs are charged to  Cost of revenue  based on the
    percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue
    that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such
    data. However, under no circumstances will an individual survey
    carry a net book value greater than a
     4-year 
    straight-line amortized value.

The carrying value of surveys is reviewed for impairment
    annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance
    indicates an impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the
    carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated
    future revenues, which involve significant judgment on the part
    of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying
    value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in
    Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in
    impairment charges in a future period. For purposes of
    performing the annual impairment test of the multiclient
    library, future cash flows are analyzed primarily based on two
    pools of surveys: United States and
     non-United 
    States. The United States and
     non-United 
    States pools were determined to be the most appropriate level at
    which to perform the impairment review based upon a number of
    factors including (i) various macroeconomic factors that

30

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

influence the ability to successfully market surveys and
    (ii) the focus of the sales force and related costs.
    Certain larger surveys, which are typically prefunded by
    customers, are analyzed for impairment on a survey by survey
    basis.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts  

Schlumberger maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in
    order to record accounts receivable at their net realizable
    value. Judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments
    to this reserve. Allowances have been recorded for receivables
    believed to be uncollectible, including amounts for the
    resolution of potential credit and other collection issues such
    as disputed invoices. Depending on how such potential issues are
    resolved, or if the financial condition of Schlumberger
    customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of
    their ability to make payments, adjustments to the allowance may
    be required.

Inventory
    Reserves  

Inventory is recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable
    value. Schlumberger maintains a reserve for excess and obsolete
    inventory. This requires management to make assumptions about
    future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or
    market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
    management, additional provisions for excess or obsolete
    inventory may be required.

Goodwill,
    Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets  

Schlumberger records the excess of purchase price over the fair
    value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets
    acquired as goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually
    as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an
    impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is tested for impairment
    by comparing the fair value of Schlumberger s individual
    reporting units to their carrying amount to determine if there
    is a potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the
    reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment
    loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of
    the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying
    value.

For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill,
    Schlumberger s reporting units are primarily the geographic
    areas comprising the Oilfield Services segment in addition to
    the WesternGeco, M-I SWACO, Smith Oilfield and Distribution
    segments. Schlumberger estimates the fair value of these
    reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis
     and/or 
    applying various market multiples. Determining the fair value of
    a reporting unit is a matter of judgment and often involves the
    use of significant estimates and assumptions.
    Schlumberger s estimate of the fair value of each of its
    reporting units comprising Oilfield Services as well as its
    WesternGeco reporting unit were substantially in excess of their
    respective carrying values at the time of their annual goodwill
    impairment tests for 2010. Due to the fact that the M-I SWACO,
    Smith Oilfield and Distribution reporting units were acquired on
    August 27, 2010, just prior to their annual goodwill
    impairment tests, the fair value of these reporting units
    approximated their carrying value.

Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets,
    are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
    recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of
    such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future
    cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their
    eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to
    support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is
    recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset
    to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash
    flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets
    involves significant estimates on the part of management. If
    there is a material change in economic conditions or other
    circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or
    fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize
    impairment charges in the future. Schlumberger evaluates the
    remaining useful life of its intangible assets on a periodic
    basis to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a
    revision to the remaining estimated amortization period.

Income
    Taxes  

Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by
    the tax authorities in most of the over 100 jurisdictions in
    which it conducts business. These audits may result in
    assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the
    authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Tax liabilities
    are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will
    be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these
    tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience

31

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances.
    However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax
    regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of
    audits may result in liabilities which could be materially
    different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger
    will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period
    in which such resolution occurs.

Pension
    and Postretirement Benefits  

Schlumberger s pension and postretirement benefit
    obligations are described in detail in Note 18 to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements . The obligations and
    related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which
    include critical assumptions related to the discount rate,
    expected return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates.
    These assumptions are important elements of expense
     and/or 
    liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or
    upon the occurrence of significant events.

The discount rate Schlumberger uses reflects the prevailing
    market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with
    maturities matching the expected timing of the payment of the
    benefit obligations. The following summarizes the discount rates
    utilized by Schlumberger for its various pension and
    postretirement benefit plans:

A higher discount rate decreases the present value of benefit
    obligations and decreases expense.

The expected rate of return for our retirement benefit plans
    represents the average rate of return expected to be earned on
    plan assets over the period that benefits included in the
    benefit obligation are expected to be paid. The expected rate of
    return for Schlumberger s United States pension plans has
    been determined based upon expectations regarding future rates
    of return for the investment portfolio, with consideration given
    to the distribution of investments by asset class and historical
    rates of return for each individual asset class. The expected
    rate of return on plan assets for the United States pension
    plans was 8.50% in both 2010 and 2009. The weighted average
    expected rate of return on plan assets for the international
    plans was 8.00% in 2010 and 8.35% in 2009. A lower expected rate
    of return would increase pension expense.

Schlumberger s medical cost trend rate assumptions are
    developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook
    and an assessment of likely long-term trends. The overall
    medical cost trend rate assumption utilized to determine both
    the 2010 postretirement medical expense as well as the
    postretirement medical liability as of December 31, 2010
    was 8% graded to 5% over the next six years.

The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain
    assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for the
    United States and international pension plans:

32

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7

The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain
    assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for
    Schlumberger s United States postretirement medical plans:

33

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7A

Item 7A.     Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.   

Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated
    with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity
    prices and interest rates.

As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts business in
    approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger s functional
    currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with
    the oil and gas industry. Approximately 80% of
    Schlumberger s revenue in 2010 was denominated in US
    dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant
    portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign
    currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to
    the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger
    conducts business, the US dollar-reported expenses will increase.

A 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all
    the foreign currencies in 2010 would have changed revenue by
    approximately 1%. If the 2010 average exchange rates of the US
    dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%,
    Schlumberger s income from continuing operations would have
    increased by approximately 2%. Conversely, a 5% weakening of the
    US dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income
    from continuing operations by approximately 3%.

Although the functional currency of Schlumberger s
    operations in Venezuela is the US dollar, a portion of the
    transactions are denominated in local currency. For financial
    reporting purposes, such transactions are remeasured into US
    dollars at the official exchange rate, which until January 2010
    was fixed at 2.15 Venezuela bolivares fuertes per US dollar,
    despite significant inflation in recent periods. In January
    2010, Venezuela s currency was devalued and a new exchange
    rate system was announced. During the first quarter of 2010,
    Schlumberger began to apply an exchange rate of 4.3 Venezuelan
    bolivares fuertes per US dollar to its local currency
    denominated transactions in Venezuela. The devaluation did not
    have an immediate significant impact to Schlumberger. Further,
    although this devaluation does result in a reduction in the US
    dollar reported amount of local currency denominated revenues
    and expenses, the impact is not material to Schlumberger s
    consolidated financial statements.

Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management
    strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its
    interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash
    flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. Foreign
    currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide
    a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary
    assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional
    currency or on expenses.

At December 31, 2010, contracts were outstanding for the US
    dollar equivalent of $7.3 billion in various foreign
    currencies.

Schlumberger is subject to the risk of market price fluctuations
    of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel. Schlumberger
    utilizes forward contracts to manage a small percentage of the
    price risk associated with forecasted metal purchases. As of
    December 31, 2010, $12 million of commodity forward
    contracts were outstanding.

Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and
    its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest
    rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and
    fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and
    interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in
    interest rates. At December 31, 2010, Schlumberger had
    fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $5.4 billion and
    variable rate debt aggregating approximately $2.8 billion.
    Schlumberger has entered into interest rate swaps relating to
    $0.5 billion of its fixed rate debt as of December 31,
    2010 whereby Schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate
    and pay interest at a variable rate.

Schlumberger s exposure to interest rate risk associated
    with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment
    portfolio. Both  Short-term investments  and  Fixed
    income investments ,  held to maturity , which totaled
    approximately $3.7 billion at December 31, 2010, are
    comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time
    deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes
    and Eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in US
    dollars. The average return on investment was 1.1% in 2010.

34

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 7A

The following table represents carrying amounts of
    Schlumberger s debt at December 31, 2010 by year of
    maturity:

The fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was
    approximately $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2010.
    The weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as
    of December 31, 2010 was approximately 1.0%.

Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative
    purposes.

Forward-looking
    Statements    

This
     Form 10-K 
    and other statements we make contain  forward-looking
    statements  within the meaning of the federal securities
    laws, which include any statements that are not historical
    facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business
    outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of
    Oilfield Services and WesternGeco (and for specified products or
    geographic areas within each segment); the integration of both
    Smith and Geoservices into our business; the anticipated
    benefits of those transactions; oil and natural gas demand and
    production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in
    operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by
    Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business
    strategies of Schlumberger s customers; future global
    economic conditions; and future results of operations. These
    statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including,
    but not limited to, the current global economic downturn;
    changes in exploration and production spending by
    Schlumberger s customers and changes in the level of oil
    and natural gas exploration and development; general economic
    and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing
    erosion; seasonal factors; changes in government regulations and
    regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil
    and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals,
    hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives;
    continuing operational delays or program reductions as of result
    of the lifted drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico; the
    inability to successfully integrate the merged Smith and
    Geoservices businesses and to realize expected synergies, the
    inability to retain key employees; and other risks and
    uncertainties detailed in the Risk Factors section of this
     Form 10-K 
    and other filings that we make with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission. If one or more of these or other risks or
    uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a
    development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove
    incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those
    reflected in our forward-looking statements. Schlumberger
    disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or
    revise such statements, whether as a result of new information,
    future events or otherwise.

35

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Item 8.      Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.   

SCHLUMBERGER
    LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME  

(1)  Amounts

    may not add due to rounding

See the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements 

36

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

SCHLUMBERGER
    LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEET

See the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements 

37

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

SCHLUMBERGER
    LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(1)

Includes multiclient seismic data
    costs.

(2)

Net of the effect of business
    acquisitions.

See the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements 

38

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

SCHLUMBERGER
    LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

See the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements 

39

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

SCHLUMBERGER
    LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SHARES OF
    COMMON STOCK

See the  Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements 

40

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements    

1.    

Business
    Description   

Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in
    Cura ao) and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively,
     Schlumberger ) form the world s leading supplier
    of technology, integrated project management, and information
    solutions to customers in the oil and gas industry worldwide,
    providing the industry s widest range of oilfield services
    from exploration to production.

2.    

Summary of
    Accounting Policies   

The  Consolidated Financial Statements  of Schlumberger
    have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America.

Principles of
    Consolidation   

The accompanying  Consolidated Financial Statements
     include the accounts of Schlumberger, its wholly-owned
    subsidiaries, and subsidiaries over which it exercises a
    controlling financial interest. All significant intercompany
    transactions and balances have been eliminated. Investments in
    entities in which Schlumberger does not have a controlling
    financial interest, but over which it has significant influence
    are accounted for using the equity method. Schlumberger s
    share of the after-tax earnings of equity method investees is
    included in  Interest and other income, net . Investments
    in which Schlumberger does not have the ability to exercise
    significant influence are accounted for using the cost method.
    Both equity and cost method investments are classified in
     Investments in Affiliated Companies .

Reclassifications   

Certain prior year items have been reclassified to conform to
    the current year presentation.

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
    of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities
    at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
    of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an
    on-going basis, Schlumberger evaluates its estimates, including
    those related to collectibility of accounts receivable;
    valuation of inventories and investments; recoverability of
    goodwill, intangible assets and investments in affiliates;
    income taxes; multiclient seismic data; contingencies and
    actuarial assumptions for employee benefit plans. Schlumberger
    bases its estimates on historical experience and on various
    other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
    circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
    judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
    that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
    may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
    conditions.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Schlumberger recognizes revenue based upon purchase orders,
    contracts or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement with
    the customer that include fixed or determinable prices provided
    that collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue is recognized
    for services when they are rendered. Revenue is recognized for
    products upon delivery, when the customer assumes the risks and
    rewards of ownership. Certain products may be provided on a
    consigned basis in which case revenue is recognized when the
    products are consumed provided that all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met.

Revenue from seismic contract services performed on a dayrate
    basis is recognized as the service is performed. Revenue from
    other contract services, including pre-funded multiclient
    surveys, is recognized as the seismic data is acquired
     and/or 
    processed on a proportionate basis as work is performed. This
    method requires revenue to be recognized based upon quantifiable
    measures of progress, such as square kilometers acquired.
    Multiclient data surveys are licensed or sold to customers on a
    non-transferable basis. Revenue on completed multiclient data
    surveys is recognized upon obtaining a signed licensing
    agreement and providing customers with access to such data.

41

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Revenue is occasionally generated from contractual arrangements
    that include multiple deliverables. Revenue from these
    arrangements is recognized as each item is delivered based on
    their relative fair value and when the delivered items have
    stand-alone value to the customer.

Revenue derived from the sale of licenses of Schlumberger
    software may include installation, maintenance, consulting and
    training services. If services are not essential to the
    functionality of the software, the revenue for each element of
    the contract is recognized separately based on its respective
    vendor specific objective evidence of fair value when all of the
    following conditions are met: a signed contract is obtained,
    delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and
    collectibility is probable.

Translation of
     Non-United 
    States Currencies   

The functional currency of Schlumberger is primarily the US
    dollar. Assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies
    other than US dollars are translated at period end exchange
    rates. The resulting adjustments are charged or credited
    directly to the  Equity  section of the  Consolidated
    Balance Sheet . Revenue and expenses are translated at the
    weighted-average exchange rates for the period. Realized and
    unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income
    in the period in which they occur. Transaction losses of
    $27 million net of hedging activities, were recognized in
    2010. In 2009 and 2008, transaction gains net of hedging
    activities of $73 million and $8 million,
    respectively, were recognized.

Investments   

The  Consolidated Balance Sheet  reflects the Schlumberger
    investment portfolio separated between current and long term,
    based on maturity. Both  Short-term investments  and
     Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity  are comprised
    primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits,
    certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and
    Eurobonds, and are substantially denominated in US dollars.
    Under normal circumstances it is the intent of Schlumberger to
    hold the investments until maturity, with the exception of
    investments that are considered trading (December 31,
    2010   $189 million; December 31,
    2009   $184 million). Short-term investments that
    are designated as trading are stated at fair value, which is
    estimated using quoted market prices for those or similar
    investments. All other investments are stated at cost plus
    accrued interest, which approximates market. The unrealized
    gains/losses on investments designated as trading were not
    significant at both December 31, 2010 and 2009.

For purposes of the  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows ,
    Schlumberger does not consider short-term investments to be cash
    equivalents as a significant portion have original maturities in
    excess of three months.

Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity  at
    December 31, 2010 of $484 million mature as follows:
    $289 million in 2012, $80 million in 2013 and
    $115 million in 2014.

Inventories   

Inventories  are stated at average cost or at market,
    whichever is lower. Costs included in  Inventories  consist
    of materials, direct labor and manufacturing overhead.

Fixed Assets
    and Depreciation   

Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation,
    which is provided for by charges to income over the estimated
    useful lives of the assets using the straight-line method. Fixed
    assets include the manufacturing cost of oilfield technical
    equipment manufactured or assembled by subsidiaries of
    Schlumberger. Expenditures for replacements and improvements are
    capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating
    expenses as incurred. Upon sale or other disposition, the
    applicable amounts of asset cost and accumulated depreciation
    are removed from the balance sheet and the net amount, less
    proceeds from disposal, is charged or credited to income.

Multiclient
    Seismic Data   

The multiclient library consists of completed and in-process
    seismic surveys that are licensed on a nonexclusive basis.
    Multiclient surveys are primarily generated utilizing
    Schlumberger resources. Schlumberger capitalizes costs directly

42

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

incurred in acquiring and processing the multiclient seismic
    data. Such costs are charged to  Cost of revenue  based on
    the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue
    that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such
    data. However, under no circumstance will an individual survey
    carry a net book value greater than a 4- year straight-line
    amortized value.

The carrying value of the multiclient library is reviewed for
    impairment annually as well as when an event or change in
    circumstance indicating impairment may have occurred.
    Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is
    determined that estimated future cash flows, which involves
    significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be
    sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys.
    Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated
    future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future
    period.

Goodwill,
    Other Intangibles and Long-lived Assets   

Schlumberger records the excess of purchase price over the fair
    value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets
    acquired as goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually
    as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an
    impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is tested for impairment
    by comparing the fair value of Schlumberger s individual
    reporting units to their carrying amount to determine if there
    is a potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the
    reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment
    loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of
    the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying
    value.

Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets,
    are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
    recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of
    such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future
    cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their
    eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to
    support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is
    recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset
    to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash
    flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets
    involve significant estimates on the part of management. If
    there is a material change in economic conditions or other
    circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or
    fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize
    impairment charges in the future.

Intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships,
    technology/technical know-how and tradenames acquired in
    business combinations. Customer relationships are generally
    amortized over periods ranging from 7 to 28 years, acquired
    technology/technical know-how are generally amortized over
    periods ranging from 5 to 18 years and tradenames are
    generally amortized over periods ranging from 5 years to
    30 years.

Taxes on
    Income   

Schlumberger computes taxes on income in accordance with the tax
    rules and regulations of the many taxing authorities where the
    income is earned. The income tax rates imposed by these taxing
    authorities vary substantially. Taxable income may differ from
    pretax income for financial accounting purposes. To the extent
    that differences are due to revenue or expense items reported in
    one period for tax purposes and in another period for financial
    accounting purposes, an appropriate provision for deferred
    income taxes is made. Any effect of changes in income tax rates
    or tax laws are included in the provision for income taxes in
    the period of enactment. When it is more likely than not that a
    portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized in
    the future, Schlumberger provides a corresponding valuation
    allowance against deferred tax assets.

Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by
    the tax authorities in most of the jurisdictions in which it
    conducts business. These audits may result in assessments for
    additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or,
    potentially, through the courts. Schlumberger recognizes the
    impact of a tax position in its financial statements if that
    position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit,
    based on the technical merits of the position. Tax liabilities
    are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will
    be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these
    tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are
    updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However,
    due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations,
    it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result
    in liabilities which could be materially different from these
    estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional
    tax expense or tax benefit in the year in which such resolution
    occurs.

43

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Schlumberger generally does not provide income taxes relating to
    undistributed earnings, as the earnings either would not be
    taxable when remitted or are considered to be indefinitely
    reinvested.

Concentration
    of Credit Risk   

Schlumberger s assets that are exposed to concentrations of
    credit risk consist primarily of cash, short-term investments,
    fixed income investments held to maturity, receivables from
    clients and derivative financial instruments. Schlumberger
    places its cash, short-term investments and fixed income
    investments held to maturity with financial institutions and
    corporations, and limits the amount of credit exposure with any
    one of them. Schlumberger regularly evaluates the
    creditworthiness of the issuers in which it invests. The
    receivables from clients are spread over many countries and
    customers. Schlumberger maintains an allowance for uncollectible
    accounts receivable based on expected collectibility and
    performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers 
    financial condition. By using derivative financial instruments
    to hedge exposure to changes in exchange rates and commodity
    prices, Schlumberger exposes itself to some credit risk.
    Schlumberger minimizes this credit risk by entering into
    transactions with high-quality counterparties, limiting the
    exposure to each counterparty and monitoring the financial
    condition of its counterparties.

Research  
    Engineering   

All research and engineering expenditures are expensed as
    incurred.

Earnings per
    Share   

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by
    the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during
    the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by first
    adding back to net income the interest expense on any
    outstanding convertible debentures and then dividing this
    adjusted net income attributable to Schlumberger by the sum of
    (i) unvested restricted stock units; and (ii) the
    weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming
    dilution. The weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding assuming dilution assumes (a) that all stock
    options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of
    the period and that the proceeds are used by Schlumberger to
    purchase shares at the average market price for the period, and
    (b) the conversion of any outstanding convertible
    debentures.

44

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The following is a reconciliation from basic to diluted earnings
    per share from continuing operations for each of the last three
    years:

Employee stock options to purchase approximately
    12.5 million, 17.1 million and 5.8 million shares
    of common stock at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, were outstanding but were not included in the
    computation of diluted earnings per share because the option
    exercise price was greater than the average market price of the
    common stock, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per
    share would have been anti-dilutive.

3.    

Charges and
    Credits  

Schlumberger recorded the following Charges and Credits in
    continuing operations during 2010, 2009 and 2008:

2010  

Fourth quarter of 2010:

In connection with Schlumberger s merger with Smith
    International, Inc. ( Smith ) (see
    Note 4    Acquisitions ), Schlumberger
    recorded the following pretax charges: $115 million
    ($73 million after-tax) relating to the amortization of
    purchase accounting adjustments associated with the
     write-up  of
    acquired inventory to its estimated fair value, $17 million
    ($16 million after-tax) of professional and other fees and
    $16 million ($12 million after-tax) relating to
    employee benefits.

Schlumberger repurchased the following debt:

45

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

As a result of these transactions, Schlumberger incurred pretax
    charges of $32 million ($20 million after-tax).

Third quarter of 2010:

As a result of the decision to rationalize support costs across
    the organization as well as to restructure the North America
    land operations to provide greater operating efficiency,
    Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of $90 million
    ($77 million after-tax).

Following the recent successful introduction of UniQ, a new
    generation single-sensor land acquisition system, Schlumberger
    recorded a $78 million pretax charge ($71 million
    after-tax), related to the impairment of WesternGeco s
    first generation
     Q-Land 
    system assets.

A pretax and after-tax charge of $63 million primarily
    relating to the early termination of a vessel lease associated
    with WesternGeco s electromagnetic service offering as well
    as related assets, including a $30 million impairment
    related to an equity-method investment.

In connection with the Schlumberger s merger with Smith
    (see Note 4    Acquisitions ), Schlumberger
    recorded the following pretax charges: $56 million
    ($55 million after-tax) of merger-related transaction costs
    including advisory and legal fees, $41 million
    ($35 million after-tax) relating to employee benefits for
    change in control payments and retention bonuses and
    $38 million ($24 million after-tax) relating to the
    amortization of purchase accounting adjustments associated with
    the  write-up 
    of acquired inventory to its estimated fair value.

$40 million pretax charge ($36 million after-tax) for
    the early termination of rig contracts and workforce reductions
    in Mexico due to the slowdown of project activity.

Schlumberger repurchased $352 million of its
    6.50% Notes due 2012 and, as a result, incurred a pretax
    charge of $28 million ($18 million after-tax).

Schlumberger recorded a pretax gain of $1.27 billion
    ($1.24 billion after-tax) as a result of remeasuring its
    previously held 40% equity interest in the M-I SWACO joint
    venture. Refer to Note 4    Acquisitions
     for further details.

First quarter of 2010:

Schlumberger incurred $35 million of pretax and after-tax
    merger-related costs in connection with the Smith and
    Geoservices transactions (see Note 4  
     Acquisitions ). These costs primarily consisted of
    advisory and legal fees.

During March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
    Act (PPACA) was signed into law in the United States. Among
    other things, the PPACA eliminates the tax deductibility of
    retiree prescription drug benefits to the extent of the Medicare
    Part D subsidy that companies, such as Schlumberger,
    receive. As a result of this change in law, Schlumberger
    recorded a $40 million charge to adjust its deferred tax
    assets to reflect the loss of this future tax deduction.

46

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The following is a summary of 2010 Charges and Credits:

Approximately $165 million of the $649 million of
    pretax restructuring and merger-related charges described above
    represent non-cash charges. The vast majority of the balance of
    the charges have either been paid or are expected to be paid
    within the next three months.

2009  

Second quarter of 2009:

Schlumberger continued to reduce its global workforce as a
    result of the slowdown in oil and gas exploration and production
    spending and its effect on activity in the oilfield services
    sector. As a result of these actions, Schlumberger recorded a
    pretax charge of $102 million ($85 million after-tax).
    These workforce reductions were completed by the end of 2009.

As a consequence of these workforce reductions, Schlumberger
    recorded pretax non-cash pension and other postretirement
    benefit curtailment charges of $136 million
    ($122 million after-tax). Refer to Note 18  
     Pension and Other Benefit Plans  for further details.

The following is a summary of these charges:

2008  

Fourth quarter of 2008:

Due to the continuing slowdown in oil and gas exploration and
    production spending and its effect on activity in the oilfield
    services sector, Schlumberger took actions to reduce its global
    workforce. As a result of these actions, Schlumberger recorded a
    pretax charge of $74 million ($65 million after-tax).

47

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Schlumberger wrote off certain assets, primarily accounts
    receivable relating to one client with liquidity issues.
    Accordingly, Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of
    $42 million ($28 million after-tax and noncontrolling
    interest).

The following is a summary of these charges:

4.    

Acquisitions  

Merger with Smith
    International, Inc.  

On August 27, 2010, Schlumberger acquired all of the
    outstanding shares of Smith, a leading supplier of premium
    products and services to the oil and gas exploration and
    production industry. The merger brings together the
    complementary drilling and measurements technologies and
    expertise of Schlumberger and Smith in order to facilitate the
    engineering of complete drilling systems which optimize all of
    the components of the drill string. Such systems will enable
    Schlumberger s customers to achieve improved drilling
    efficiency, better well placement and increased wellbore
    assurance as they face increasingly more challenging
    environments. In addition, Schlumberger s geographic
    footprint will facilitate the extension of joint offerings on a
    worldwide basis.

Under the terms of the merger agreement, Smith became a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger. Each share of Smith
    common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the
    effective time of the merger was converted into the right to
    receive 0.6966 shares of Schlumberger common stock, with
    cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.

At the effective time of the merger, each outstanding option to
    purchase Smith common stock was converted pursuant to the merger
    agreement into a stock option to acquire shares of Schlumberger
    common stock on the same terms and conditions as were in effect
    immediately prior to the completion of the merger. The number of
    shares of Schlumberger common stock underlying each converted
    Smith stock option was determined by multiplying the number of
    Smith stock options by the 0.6966 exchange ratio, and rounding
    down to the nearest whole share. The exercise price per share of
    each converted Smith stock option was determined by dividing the
    per share exercise price of such stock option by the 0.6966
    exchange ratio, and rounded up to the nearest whole cent. Smith
    stock options, whether or not then vested and exercisable,
    became fully vested and exercisable and assumed by Schlumberger
    at the effective date of the merger in accordance with
    preexisting
     change-in-control 
    provisions. Smith stock options were converted into
    0.6 million of Schlumberger stock options.

At the effective time of the merger, Smith restricted stock
    units, whether or not then vested, became fully vested (except
    for grants between the date of the merger agreement and closing,
    which were not significant and did not automatically vest) and
    were converted into shares of Schlumberger common stock in
    connection with the merger, determined by multiplying the number
    of shares of Smith common stock subject to each award by the
    0.6966 exchange ratio, rounded to the nearest whole share
    (assuming, in the case of performance-based Smith restricted
    stock unit awards, the deemed attainment of the performance
    goals under the award at the target level).

Calculation
    of Consideration Transferred  

The following details the fair value of the consideration
    transferred to effect the merger with Smith.

48

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

(Stated in millions, except exchange ratio and per share
    amounts) 

Number of shares of Smith common stock outstanding as of the
    acquisition date

248

Number of Smith unvested restricted stock units outstanding as
    of the acquisition date

4

252

Multiplied by the exchange ratio

0.6966

Equivalent Schlumberger shares of common stock issued

176

Schlumberger closing stock price on August 27, 2010

$

55.76

Common stock equity consideration

$

9,812

Fair value of Schlumberger equivalent stock options issued

$

16

Total fair value of the consideration transferred

$

9,828

Certain
    amounts reflect rounding adjustments  

Preliminary
    Allocation of Consideration Transferred to Net Assets
    Acquired  

The following amounts represent the preliminary estimates of the
    fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed in the merger. The final determination of fair value for
    certain assets and liabilities will be completed as soon as the
    information necessary to complete the analysis is obtained.
    These amounts will be finalized as soon as possible, but no
    later than one year from the acquisition date.

(1)

Schlumberger recorded an adjustment
    of approximately $155 million to
     write-up  the
    acquired inventory to its estimated fair value.
    Schlumberger s cost of revenue reflected this increased
    valuation as this inventory was sold. Accordingly,
    Schlumberger s margins were temporarily reduced in the
    initial periods subsequent to the merger.

(2)

In connection with the merger,
    Schlumberger assumed all of the debt obligations of Smith
    including its long-term fixed rate notes consisting of the
    following: $220 million 6.75% Senior Notes due 2011,
    $300 million 8.625% Senior Notes due 2014,
    $275 million 6.00% Senior Notes due 2016 and
    $700 million 9.75% Senior Notes due 2019. Schlumberger
    recorded a $417 million adjustment to increase the carrying
    amount of these notes to their estimated fair value. This
    adjustment will be amortized as a reduction of interest expense
    over the remaining term of the respective obligations.

(3)

In connection with the acquisition
    accounting, Schlumberger provided deferred taxes related to,
    among other items, the estimated fair value adjustments for
    acquired inventory, intangible assets and assumed debt
    obligations. Included in the provisions for deferred taxes are
    amounts relating to the outside basis difference associated with
    shares in certain Smith non-US subsidiaries for which no taxes
    have previously been provided. Schlumberger expects to reverse
    the outside basis difference primarily through the
    reorganization of those subsidiaries as well as through
    repatriating earnings in lieu of permanently reinvesting them.
    In this regard, Schlumberger is in the process of assessing
    certain factors that impact the ultimate amount of deferred
    taxes to be recorded. The amount of deferred taxes recorded will
    likely be revised after this assessment is completed. Any
    revision to the amount of deferred taxes recorded will impact
    the amount of goodwill recorded.

49

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

(4)

Prior to the completion of the
    merger, Smith and Schlumberger operated M-I SWACO, a drilling
    fluids joint venture that was 40% owned by Schlumberger and 60%
    owned by Smith. Effective at the closing of the merger, M-I
    SWACO is now owned 100% by Schlumberger. As a result of
    obtaining control of this joint venture, Schlumberger was
    required under generally accepted accounting principles to
    remeasure its previously held equity interest in the joint
    venture at its merger-date fair value and recognize the
    resulting pretax gain of $1.3 billion ($1.2 billion
    after-tax) in earnings. This gain is classified as  Gain on
    Investment in M-I SWACO  in the  Consolidated Statement of
    Income .

Prior to acquiring Smith,
    Schlumberger recorded income relating to this venture using the
    equity method of accounting. The carrying value of
    Schlumberger s investment in the joint venture on
    December 31, 2009 was $1.4 billion, and was included
    within  Investments in Affiliated Companies  on the
     Consolidated Balance Sheet . Schlumberger s equity
    income from this joint venture was $78 million in 2010
    (representing the period from January 1, 2010 to
    August 27, 2010), $131 million in 2009 and
    $210 million in 2008. Schlumberger received cash
    distributions from the joint venture of $50 million in
    2010, $106 million in 2009 and $57 million in 2008.

(5)

The goodwill recognized is
    primarily attributable to expected synergies that will result
    from combining the operations of Schlumberger and Smith as well
    as intangible assets that do not qualify for separate
    recognition. Approximately $0.2 billion of the goodwill is
    deductible for income tax purposes.

Acquisition of
    Geoservices  

On April 23, 2010, Schlumberger completed the acquisition
    of Geoservices, a privately owned oilfield services company
    specializing in mud logging, slickline and production
    surveillance operations, for $915 million in cash.

The purchase price has been allocated to the net assets acquired
    upon their estimated fair values as follows:

The long-term debt was repaid at the time of closing.

Intangible assets recorded in connection with this transaction,
    which primarily relate to customer relationships, will be
    amortized over a weighted average period of approximately
    17 years. The amount allocated to goodwill represents the
    excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net
    assets acquired and is not tax deductible for income tax
    purposes.

Other
    Acquisitions  

Schlumberger has made other acquisitions and minority
    investments, none of which were significant on an individual
    basis, for cash payments, net of cash acquired, of
    $212 million during 2010, $514 million during 2009,
    and $345 million during 2008.

Supplemental Pro
    Forma Data  

Smith s results of operations have been included in
    Schlumberger s financial statements for periods subsequent
    to the effective date of the merger. Smith contributed revenues
    of $3.3 billion and net income of $160 million
    (including the recurring effects of purchase accounting) to
    Schlumberger for the period from the closing of the merger
    through December 31, 2010. The following unaudited
    supplemental pro forma data ( pro forma data )
    presents consolidated information as if the merger with Smith
    and the acquisition of Geoservices had been completed on
    January 1, 2009:

50

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The pro forma data was prepared based on the historical
    financial information of Schlumberger, Smith and Geoservices and
    has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma adjustments that
    are (i) directly attributable to the transactions,
    (ii) factually supportable and (iii) expected to have
    a continuing impact on the combined results. The pro forma data
    is not necessarily indicative of what Schlumberger s
    results of operations actually would have been had the
    transactions been completed on January 1, 2009.
    Additionally, the pro forma data does not purport to project the
    future results of operations of the combined company nor do they
    reflect the expected realization of synergies associated with
    the transactions. The pro forma data reflects the application of
    the following adjustments:

Elimination of the gain resulting from Schlumberger s
    remeasurement of its previously held 40% equity interest in M-I
    SWACO, which is considered non-recurring.

Additional depreciation and amortization expense associated with
    fair value adjustments to acquired identifiable intangible
    assets and property, plant and equipment.

Elimination of charges incurred in 2010 related to the fair
    value adjustments to Smith s inventory that has been sold
    as they will not have a long-term continuing impact.

Reductions in interest expense as a result of increasing the
    carrying value of acquired debt obligations to its estimated
    fair value.

Elimination of transaction costs incurred in 2010 that are
    directly related to the transactions, and do not have a
    continuing impact on the combined company s operating
    results.

The issuance of 176 million of shares of Schlumberger
    common stock.

Included in the 2010 and 2009 pro forma net income attributable
    to Schlumberger and diluted earnings per share presented above
    are the following significant charges and credits:

*

Does not add due to rounding

(1)

Relates to Schlumberger s
    historical operations and is more fully described in
    Note 3    Charges and Credits .

(2)

Relates to Smith s historical
    operations.

5.    

Inventory   

A summary of inventory follows:

51

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

6.    

Fixed
    Assets   

A summary of fixed assets follows:

The estimated useful lives of Buildings   improvements
    are primarily 30 to 40 years. The estimated useful lives of
    Machinery   equipment are primarily 5 to
    10 years. Seismic vessels are depreciated over periods
    ranging from 20 to 30 years with the related equipment
    generally depreciated over 5 years.

Depreciation expense relating to fixed assets was
    $2.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

7.    

Multiclient
    Seismic Data   

The change in the carrying amount of multiclient seismic data is
    as follows:

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by business
    segment were as follows:

52

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

9.    

Intangible
    Assets   

Intangible assets principally comprise technology/technical
    know-how, tradenames and customer relationships. At
    December 31, the gross book value and accumulated
    amortization of intangible assets were as follows:

Amortization expense was $190 million in 2010,
    $114 million in 2009 and $124 million in 2008.

The weighted average amortization period for all intangible
    assets is approximately 21 years.

Amortization expense for the subsequent five years is estimated
    to be as follows: 2011   $323 million,
    2012   $316 million, 2013  
    $298 million, 2014   $292 million and
    2015   $277 million.

10.    

Long-term Debt
    and Debt Facility Agreements   

Long-term
    Debt
       consists
    of the following:

(1)

Represents long-term fixed rate
    debt obligations assumed in connection with the merger of Smith,
    net of amounts repurchased subsequent to the closing of the
    transaction.

The fair value adjustment presented above represents changes in
    the fair value of the portion of Schlumberger s fixed rate
    debt that is hedged through the use of interest rate swaps.

During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, Schlumberger
    repurchased all of its $650 million 6.50% Notes due
    2012.

During the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger entered into a
     3.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note program. This
    program provides for the issuance of various types of debt
    instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes in euro, US
    dollar or other currencies.

Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 2.75% Guaranteed
    Notes due 2015 in the fourth quarter of 2010 under this program.
    Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes
    for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively
    making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger
    will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 2.56%. Schlumberger
    also issued  1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed Notes due
    2014 in the first quarter of 2009 under this program.
    Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes
    for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively
    making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger
    will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.95%.

During the third quarter of 2009, Schlumberger issued
    $450 million of 3.00% Guaranteed Notes due 2013.

53

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

In September 2008, Schlumberger issued  500 million
    5.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. Schlumberger entered into
    agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date
    of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar
    denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US
    dollars at a rate of 4.74%.

Commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31,
    2010 and 2009 include certain notes issued in currencies other
    than the US dollar which were swapped for US dollars and pounds
    sterling on the date of issue until maturity. Commercial paper
    borrowings are classified as long-term debt to the extent of
    their backup by available and unused committed credit facilities
    maturing in more than one year and to the extent it is
    Schlumberger s intent to maintain these obligations for
    longer than one year.

At December 31, 2010, Schlumberger had separate committed
    debt facility agreements aggregating $6.0 billion with
    commercial banks, of which $3.7 billion was available and
    unused. This included $4.9 billion of committed facilities
    which support commercial paper programs in the United States and
    Europe, of which $2.5 billion mature in December 2011 and
    $2.4 billion mature in April 2012. Interest rates and other
    terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country
    to country. Borrowings under the commercial paper programs at
    December 31, 2010 were $1.9 billion ($0.4 billion
    at December 31, 2009). At December 31, 2010,
    $1.5 billion of the commercial paper borrowings were
    classified within  Long-term debt   current portion
     in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet .

On January 10, 2011, Schlumberger issued $1.1 billion
    of 4.200% Senior Notes due 2021 and $500 million of
    2.650% Senior Notes due 2016.

A summary of  Long-term Debt  by currency, analyzed by
    Bonds and Notes, Commercial Paper (CP) and Other, at December 31
    follows. As described in further detail above, the currencies
    are presented after taking into account currency swaps entered
    into on the date of issuance until maturity.

The weighted average interest rate on variable rate debt as of
    December 31, 2010 was 1.0%.

Long-term Debt  as of December 31, 2010, is due as
    follows: $445 million in 2012, $1.163 billion in 2013,
    $1.605 billion in 2014, $1.310 billion in 2015 and
    $994 million after 2015.

The fair value of Schlumberger s  Long-term Debt  at
    December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 was
    $5.6 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively, and was
    estimated based on quoted market prices.

Convertible
    Debentures  

During 2003, Schlumberger Limited issued $975 million
    aggregate principal amount of 1.5% Series A Convertible
    Debentures due June 1, 2023 and $450 million aggregate
    principal amount of 2.125% Series B Convertible Debentures
    due June 1, 2023. The Series A debentures were
    convertible, at the holders  option, into shares of common
    stock of Schlumberger Limited at a conversion rate of
    27.651 shares for each $1,000 of principal amount
    (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $36.165 per share)
    while the Series B debentures were convertible into common
    stock at a conversion rate of 25.000 shares for each $1,000
    of principal (equivalent to an initial conversion price of
    $40.00 per share).

During 2008, all of the remaining $353 million of
    outstanding Series A debentures were converted into
    9.8 million shares of Schlumberger common stock.

During 2008, $95 million of the Series B debentures
    were converted into 2.4 million shares of Schlumberger
    common stock. At December 31, 2009, there were
    $321 million of the Series B debentures outstanding.
    During 2010, $320 million of these debentures were
    converted by holders into 8.0 million shares of
    Schlumberger common stock and the remaining

54

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

$1 million of outstanding Series B convertible
    debentures were redeemed for cash. Consequently, there are no
    convertible debentures outstanding at December 31, 2010.

11.    

Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities   

Schlumberger is exposed to market risks related to fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and
    interest rates. To mitigate these risks, Schlumberger utilizes
    derivative instruments. Schlumberger does not enter into
    derivatives for speculative purposes.

Foreign
    Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts its business
    in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger s functional
    currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with
    the oil and gas industry. Approximately 80% of
    Schlumberger s revenue in 2010 was denominated in US
    dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant
    portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign
    currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens (strengthens)
    in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which
    Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar  
    reported expenses will increase (decrease).

Schlumberger is exposed to risks on future cash flows to the
    extent that local currency expenses exceed revenues denominated
    in local currency that are other than the functional currency.
    Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign
    currency options to provide a hedge against a portion of these
    cash flow risks. These contracts are accounted for as cash flow
    hedges, with the effective portion of changes in the fair value
    of the hedge recorded on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet
     and in  Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).  Amounts
    recorded in  Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  are
    reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods that
    the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective
    portion of changes in the fair value of hedging instruments, if
    any, is recorded directly to earnings.

At December 31, 2010, Schlumberger recognized a cumulative
    net $45 million gain in  Accumulated other comprehensive
    loss  relating to revaluation of foreign currency forward
    contracts and foreign currency options designated as cash flow
    hedges, the majority of which is expected to be reclassified
    into earnings within the next twelve months.

Schlumberger is also exposed to changes in the fair value of
    assets and liabilities, including certain of its long-term debt,
    which are denominated in currencies other than the functional
    currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts
    and foreign currency options to hedge this exposure as it
    relates to certain currencies. These contracts are accounted for
    as fair value hedges with the fair value of the contracts
    recorded on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet  and changes in
    the fair value recognized in the  Consolidated Statement of
    Income  along with the change in fair value of the hedged
    item.

At December 31, 2010, contracts were outstanding for the US
    dollar equivalent of $7.3 billion in various foreign
    currencies.

Commodity
    Price Risk  

Schlumberger is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in
    the price of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel.
    Schlumberger utilizes forward contracts to manage a small
    percentage of the price risk associated with forecasted metal
    purchases. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the
    variability of cash flows associated with the forecasted
    purchase of those commodities. These contracts do not qualify
    for hedge accounting treatment and therefore, changes in the
    fair value of the forward contracts are recorded directly to
    earnings.

At December 31, 2010, $12 million of commodity forward
    contracts were outstanding.

Interest
    Rate Risk  

Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and
    its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest
    rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and
    fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and
    interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in
    interest rates.

During the third quarter of 2009, Schlumberger entered into
    interest rate swaps relating to two of its debt instruments. The
    first swap was for a notional amount of $450 million in
    order to hedge changes in the fair value of

55

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Schlumberger s $450 million 3.00% Notes due 2013.
    Under the terms of this swap, Schlumberger receives interest at
    a fixed rate of 3.0% annually and will pay interest quarterly at
    a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 0.765%.
    This interest rate swap is designated as a fair value hedge of
    the underlying debt. This derivative instrument is marked to
    market with gains and losses recognized currently in income to
    offset the respective losses and gains recognized on changes in
    the fair value of the hedged debt. This results in no net gain
    or loss being recognized in the  Consolidated Statement of
    Income .

The second swap was for a notional amount of $600 million
    in order to hedge a portion of the changes in fair value of
    Schlumberger s $650 million 6.50% Notes due 2012.
    Under the terms of this swap agreement, Schlumberger received
    interest at a fixed rate of 6.50% semi-annually and paid
    interest semi-annually at a floating rate of one-month LIBOR
    plus a spread of 4.84%. During the third and fourth quarters of
    2010, Schlumberger repurchased all of the outstanding
    $650 million 6.50% Notes due 2012. Accordingly, this
    interest rate swap, which had previously been designated as a
    fair value hedge of the underlying debt, was settled during the
    fourth quarter and resulted in Schlumberger receiving proceeds
    of approximately $10 million.

At December 31, 2010, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt
    aggregating approximately $4.9 billion and variable rate
    debt aggregating approximately $3.2 billion, after taking
    into account the effects of the interest rate swaps.

The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments are
    summarized as follows:

(Stated in millions) 

Fair Value of 

Derivatives 

Classification 

Dec. 31 

Dec. 31 

Derivative assets 

2010 

2009 

Derivative designated as hedges:

Foreign exchange contracts

$4 

$14

Other current assets 

Foreign exchange contracts

37 

216

Other Assets 

Interest rate swaps

14 

Other Assets 

$55 

$230

Derivative not designated as hedges:

Commodity contracts

$3 

$1

Other current assets 

Foreign exchange contracts

9 

11

Other current assets 

Foreign exchange contracts

9 

28

Other Assets 

$21 

$40

$76 

$270

Derivative Liabilities 

Derivative designated as hedges:

Foreign exchange contracts

$9 

$15

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 

Foreign exchange contracts

77 

51

Other Liabilities 

Interest rate swaps

7 

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 

$93 

$66

Derivative not designated as hedges:

Commodity contracts

$ 

$3

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 

Foreign exchange contracts

14 

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 

Foreign exchange contracts

25

Other Liabilities 

$14 

$28

$107 

$94

The fair value of all outstanding derivatives is determined
    using a model with inputs that are observable in the market or
    can be derived from or corroborated by observable data.

56

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The effect of derivative instruments designated as fair value
    hedges and not designated as hedges on the  Consolidated
    Statement of Income  was as follows:

The effect of derivative instruments in cash flow hedging
    relationships on income and other comprehensive income (OCI) was
    as follows:

12.    

Stockholders 
    Equity   

Schlumberger is authorized to issue 3,000,000,000 shares of
    common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which 1,361,171,428
    and 1,194,812,901 shares were outstanding on
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Schlumberger is
    also authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of preferred
    stock, par value $0.01 per share, which may be issued in series
    with terms and conditions determined by the Board of Directors.
    No shares of preferred stock have been issued. Holders of common
    stock are entitled to one vote for each share of stock held.

57

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The following is a reconciliation of  Accumulated Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss) :

13.    

Stock
    Compensation Plans   

Schlumberger has three types of stock-based compensation
    programs: stock options, a restricted stock and restricted stock
    unit program (collectively referred to as  restricted
    stock ) and a discounted stock purchase plan
    ( DSPP ).

Stock
    Options   

Key employees are granted stock options under Schlumberger stock
    option plans. For all of the stock options granted, the exercise
    price equals the average of the high and low sales prices of
    Schlumberger stock on the date of grant; an option s
    maximum term is ten years, and options generally vest in
    increments over four or five years.

The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on the
    date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with
    the following weighted-average assumptions and resulting
    weighted-average fair value per share:

58

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The following table summarizes information concerning options
    outstanding and options exercisable by five ranges of exercise
    prices as of December 31, 2010:

The weighted average remaining contractual life of stock options
    exercisable as of December 31, 2010 was 4.6 years.

The following table summarizes stock option activity during the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:

The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding as of
    December 31, 2010 was approximately $1.08 billion. The
    aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercisable as of
    December 31, 2010 was approximately $630 million.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was
    $188 million, $103 million and $119 million,
    respectively.

Restricted
    Stock   

Restricted stock awards generally vest at the end of three
    years. There have not been any grants to date that are subject
    to performance-based vesting.

The following table summarizes information about restricted
    stock transactions:

59

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Discounted
    Stock Purchase Plan   

Under the terms of the DSPP, employees can choose to have a
    portion of their earnings withheld, subject to certain
    restrictions, to purchase Schlumberger common stock. The
    purchase price of the stock is 92.5% of the lower of the stock
    price at the beginning or end of the plan period at six-month
    intervals.

The fair value of the employees  purchase rights under the
    DSPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the
    following assumptions and resulting weighted average fair value
    per share:

Total
    Stock-based Compensation Expense   

The following summarizes stock-based compensation expense
    recognized in income:

At December 31, 2010, there was $382 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock-based
    compensation arrangements. Approximately $156 million is
    expected to be recognized in 2011, $122 million is expected
    to be recognized in 2012, $65 million in 2013,
    $35 million in 2014 and $4 million in 2015.

Schlumberger operates in more than 100 jurisdictions, where
    statutory tax rates generally vary from 0% to 50%.

Income from Continuing Operations before taxes  which were
    subject to United States and
     non-United 
    States income taxes for each of the three years ended
    December 31, was as follows:

Schlumberger recorded $621 million of net pretax credits in
    2010 ($226 million of net charges in the US and
    $847 million of net credits outside the US). Schlumberger
    recorded $238 million of pretax charges in 2009
    ($73 million in the US and $165 million outside the
    US) and $116 million in 2008 ($15 million in the US
    and $101 million outside the US). These charges and credits
    are included in the table above and are more fully described in
    Note 3    Charges and Credits .

The components of net deferred tax assets (liabilities) were as
    follows:

60

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The above deferred balances at December 31, 2010 and 2009
    are net of valuation allowances relating to net operating losses
    in certain countries of $263 million and $251 million,
    respectively. The deferred tax balances at December 31,
    2009 were net of a valuation allowance relating to a foreign tax
    credit carryforward of $30 million.

The components of  Taxes on income  were as follows:

A reconciliation of the United States statutory federal tax rate
    (35%) to the consolidated effective tax rate is:

Schlumberger conducts business in more than 100 jurisdictions, a
    number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are
    evolving. Due to the geographic breadth of the Schlumberger
    operations, numerous tax audits may be ongoing throughout the
    world at any point in time. Tax liabilities are recorded based
    on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the
    conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities
    are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of
    changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the
    uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is
    possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in
    liabilities which could be materially different from these
    estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional
    tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such
    resolution occurs.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as follows:

61

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The amounts above exclude accrued interest and penalties of
    $210 million, $168 million and $136 million at
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. All of the
    unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would impact the
    Schlumberger effective tax rate.

Schlumberger classifies interest and penalties relating to
    uncertain tax positions within  Taxes on income  in the
     Consolidated Statement of Income . During 2010, 2009 and
    2008, Schlumberger recognized approximately $42 million,
    $32 million and $25 million in interest and penalties,
    respectively.

The following table summarizes the tax years that are either
    currently under audit or remain open and subject to examination
    by the tax authorities in the most significant jurisdictions in
    which Schlumberger operates:

In certain of the jurisdictions noted above, Schlumberger
    operates through more than one legal entity, each of which has
    different open years subject to examination. The table above
    presents the open years subject to examination for the most
    material of the legal entities in each jurisdiction.
    Additionally, it is important to note that tax years are
    technically not closed until the statute of limitations in each
    jurisdiction expires. In the jurisdictions noted above, the
    statute of limitations can extend beyond the open years subject
    to examination.

15.    

Leases and
    Lease Commitments   

Total rental expense was $1.2 billion in 2010,
    $1.0 billion in 2009, and $1.1 billion in 2008. Future
    minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases
    for each of the next five years are as follows:

In 2007, Schlumberger received an inquiry from the United States
    Department of Justice ( DOJ ) related to the
    DOJ s investigation of whether certain freight forwarding
    and customs clearance services of Panalpina, Inc., and other
    companies provided to oil and oilfield service companies,
    including Schlumberger, violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act. Schlumberger is cooperating with the DOJ. Schlumberger is
    cooperating with the governmental authorities and is currently
    unable to predict the outcome of this matter.

In 2009, Schlumberger learned that United States officials began
    a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry,
    both related to certain Schlumberger operations in specified
    countries that are subject to United States trade and economic
    sanctions. Also in 2009, Smith received an administrative
    subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in
    certain countries that are subject to United States trade and
    economic sanctions. Schlumberger is cooperating with the
    governmental authorities and is currently unable to predict the
    outcome of these matters.

On April 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard
    the semisubmersible drilling rig  Deepwater Horizon , owned
    by Transocean Ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of BP plc.
    Pursuant to a contract between M-I SWACO and BP, M-I SWACO
    provided certain services under the direction of BP. A number of
    legal actions, certain of which name an M-I SWACO entity as a
    defendant, have been filed in connection with the  Deepwater
    Horizon  incident, and additional legal

62

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

actions may be filed in the future. Based on information
    currently known, the amount of any potential loss attributable
    to M-I SWACO with respect to potential liabilities related to
    the incident would not be material to Schlumberger s
    consolidated financial position.

Schlumberger and its subsidiaries are party to various other
    legal proceedings from time to time. A liability is accrued when
    a loss is both probable and can be reasonably estimated.
    Management believes that the probability of a material loss is
    remote and, as such, that any liability that might ensue would
    not be material in relation to Schlumberger s consolidated
    financial position. However, litigation is inherently uncertain
    and it is not possible to predict the ultimate disposition of
    these proceedings.

17.    

Segment
    Information   

Schlumberger operates five business segments as of
    December 31, 2010: Oilfield Services, WesternGeco, M-I
    SWACO, Smith Oilfield and Distribution.

The Oilfield Services segment falls into four clearly defined
    economic and geographical areas and is evaluated on the
    following basis: North America, Latin America, Europe including
    the CIS and Africa, and Middle East   Asia. The
    Oilfield Services segment provides virtually all exploration and
    production services required during the life of an oil and gas
    reservoir.

WesternGeco provides comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging,
    monitoring and development services with extensive seismic crews
    and data processing centers, as well as a large multiclient
    seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D)
    seismic surveys to multi-component surveys for delineating
    prospects and reservoir management.

M-I SWACO is a leading supplier of drilling fluid systems
    engineered to improve wellbore quality and increase drilling
    performance. It also offers a broad range of waste management
    equipment and services, provides completion fluid and related
    tools and supplies oilfield production chemicals.

The Smith Oilfield segment provides a comprehensive suite of
    premium products and services used in oil and natural gas
    development activities. It is comprised of drilling and
    completion services operations, which include drill bits,
    directional drilling services and downhole tools.

Distribution consists of the Wilson International Inc.
    distribution operations and a majority-owned interest in CE
    Franklin Ltd., a publicly traded Canadian distribution company.
    It provides products and services to the energy, refining,
    petrochemical, power generation and mining industries.

63

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Financial information for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, by segment, is as follows:

64

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

(1)

Includes certain headquarter
    administrative costs which are not allocated geographically,
    manufacturing and certain other operations, and other cost and
    income items maintained at the Oilfield Services level.

(2)

Comprised principally of corporate
    expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on
    postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs,
    amortization expense associated with intangible assets recorded
    as a result of the merger with Smith and certain other
    nonoperating items. Corporate assets consist of cash, short-term
    investments, fixed income investments, held to maturity and
    investments in affiliates.

(3)

Interest income excludes amounts
    which are included in the segments  income (2010 -
    $7 million: 2009   $10 million;
    2008   $7 million).

(4)

Interest expense excludes amounts
    which are included in the segments  income (2010 -
    $5 million; 2009   $33 million;
    2008   $30 million).

(5)

See Note 3  
     Charges and Credits .

Segment assets consist of receivables, inventories, fixed assets
    and multiclient seismic data.

Depreciation   Amortization includes multiclient
    seismic data costs.

During each of the three years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated
    revenue.

Schlumberger did not have revenue from third-party customers in
    its country of domicile during the last three years. Revenue in
    the United States in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $6.5 billion,
    $3.7 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively.

18.    

Pension and
    Other Benefit Plans   

Pension
    Plans   

Schlumberger sponsors several defined benefit pension plans that
    cover substantially all US employees hired prior to
    October 1, 2004. The benefits are based on years of service
    and compensation, on a career-average pay basis.

In addition to the United States defined benefit pension plans,
    Schlumberger sponsors several other international defined
    benefit pension plans. The most significant of these
    international plans are the International Staff Pension Plan,
    which was converted from a defined contribution plan to a
    defined benefit pension plan during the fourth quarter of 2008,
    and the UK pension plan (collectively, the  International
    plans ). The International Staff Pension Plan covers
    certain international employees and is based on years of service
    and compensation on a career-average pay basis. The UK plan
    covers employees hired prior to April 1, 1999, and is based
    on years of service and compensation, on a final salary basis.

65

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The weighted-average assumed discount rate, compensation
    increases and the expected long-term rate of return on plan
    assets used to determine the net pension cost for the US and
    International plans were as follows:

Net pension cost for 2010, 2009 and 2008 included the following
    components:

During 2009, due to the actions taken by Schlumberger to reduce
    its global workforce (See Note 3    Charges and
    Credits ), Schlumberger experienced a significant reduction
    in the expected aggregate years of future service of its
    employees in certain of its pension plans and its postretirement
    medical plan. Accordingly, Schlumberger recorded a curtailment
    charge of $136 million during the second quarter of 2009
    ($130 million relating to the pension plans and
    $6 million relating to the postretirement medical plan).
    The curtailment charge includes recognition of the change in
    benefit obligations as well as a portion of the previously
    unrecognized prior service costs, reflecting the reduction in
    expected future service for the impacted plans. As a result of
    the curtailment, Schlumberger performed a remeasurement of the
    impacted plans using a discount rate of 7.25% (as compared to
    6.50% at December 31, 2008). All other significant
    assumptions were unchanged from December 31, 2008
    measurement date.

As the International Staff Pension Plan was converted to a
    defined benefit pension plan during the fourth quarter of 2008,
    the net pension cost for this plan was not significant in 2008.

The weighted-average assumed discount rate and compensation
    increases used to determine the projected benefit obligations
    for the US and International plans were as follows:

66

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The changes in the projected benefit obligation, plan assets and
    funded status of the plans were as follows:

The funded status position represents the difference between the
    plan assets and the projected benefit obligation
    ( PBO ). The PBO represents the actuarial present
    value of benefits based on employee service and compensation and
    includes an assumption about future compensation levels. The
    accumulated benefit obligation represents the actuarial present
    value of benefits based on employee service and compensation,
    but does not include an assumption about future compensation
    levels.

The weighted-average allocation of plan assets and the target
    allocation by asset category are as follows:

Schlumberger s investment policy includes various
    guidelines and procedures designed to ensure that assets are
    prudently invested in a manner necessary to meet the future
    benefit obligation of the pension plans. The policy does not
    permit the direct investment of plan assets in any Schlumberger
    security. Schlumberger s investment horizon is long-term
    and accordingly the target asset allocations encompass a
    strategic, long-term perspective of capital markets, expected
    risk and return behavior and perceived future economic
    conditions. The key investment principles of

67

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

diversification, assessment of risk and targeting the optimal
    expected returns for given levels of risk are applied. The
    target asset allocation is reviewed periodically and is
    determined based on a long-term projection of capital market
    outcomes, inflation rates, fixed income yields, returns,
    volatilities and correlation relationships. The inclusion of any
    given asset class in the target asset allocation is considered
    in relation to its impact on the overall risk/return
    characteristics as well as its impact on the overall investment
    return. As part of its strategy, Schlumberger may utilize
    certain derivative instruments, such as options, futures, swaps
    and forwards, within the plans to manage risks (currency,
    interest rate, etc.) or as a substitute for physical securities
    or to obtain exposure to different markets.

Asset performance is monitored frequently with an overall
    expectation that plan assets will meet or exceed the weighted
    index of its target asset allocation and component benchmark
    over rolling five year periods.

The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions
    reflect the average rate of earnings expected on funds invested
    or to be invested. The assumptions have been determined by
    reflecting expectations regarding future rates of return for the
    portfolio considering the asset allocation and related
    historical rates of return. The appropriateness of the
    assumptions is reviewed annually.

The fair value of Schlumberger s pension plan assets at
    December 31, 2010, by asset category, was as follows:

The fair values presented below were determined based on
    valuation techniques categorized as follows:

Level one: The use of quoted prices in active markets for
    identical instruments.

Level two: The use of quoted prices for similar instruments in
    active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar
    instruments in markets that are not active or other inputs that
    are observable in the market or can be corroborated by
    observable market data.

Level three: The use of significantly unobservable inputs that
    typically require the use of management s estimates of
    assumptions that market participants would use in pricing.

68

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

(a)

US equities include companies that
    are well diversified by industry sector and equity style (i.e.,
    growth and value strategies). Active and passive management
    strategies are employed. Investments are primarily in large
    capitalization stocks and, to a lesser extent, mid- and
    small-cap stocks.

(b)

International equities are invested
    in companies that are traded on exchanges outside the US and are
    well diversified by industry sector, country and equity style.
    Active and passive strategies are employed. The vast majority of
    the investments are made in companies in developed markets with
    a small percentage in emerging markets.

(c)

Corporate bonds consist primarily
    of investment grade bonds from diversified industries.

(d)

Government and government-related
    debt securities are comprised primarily of inflation protected
    US treasuries and, to a lesser extent, other government-related
    securities.

(e)

Government agency collateralized
    mortgage obligations and mortgage backed-securities are debt
    obligations that represent claims to the cash flows from pools
    of mortgage loans which are purchased from banks, mortgage
    companies, and other originators and then assembled into pools
    by governmental and quasi-governmental entities.

(f)

Other collateralized mortgage
    obligations and mortgage-backed securities are debt obligations
    that represent claims to the cash flows from pools of mortgage
    loans which are purchased from banks, mortgage companies, and
    other originators and then assembled into pools by private
    entities.

(g)

Private equity includes investments
    in several fund of funds limited partnerships.

(h)

Real estate primarily includes
    investments in real estate limited partnerships, concentrated in
    commercial real estate.

The funding policy is to annually contribute amounts that are
    based upon a number of factors including the actuarial accrued
    liability, amounts that are deductible for income tax purposes,
    legal funding requirements and available cash flow. Schlumberger
    currently anticipates contributing approximately
    $600 million to $650 million to its postretirement
    benefit plans in 2011, subject to market and business conditions.

Postretirement
    Benefits Other than Pensions   

Schlumberger provides certain health care benefits to former US
    employees who have retired.

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost
    for the US postretirement medical plan were as follows:

69

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

The net periodic benefit cost for the US postretirement medical
    plan included the following components:

The changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit
    obligation, plan assets and funded status were as follows:

The unfunded position is included in  Postretirement Benefits
     in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

The assets of the US postretirement medical plan are invested
    60% in US equity securities and 40% in government and
    government-related debt securities. The fair value of these
    assets were determined based on quoted prices in active markets
    for identical instruments.

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect
    on the amounts reported for the US postretirement medical plan.
    A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend
    rates would have the following effects:

(Stated in millions) 

One percentage 

One percentage 

point increase 

point decrease 

Effect on total service and interest cost components

$ 

15 

$ 

(12 

) 

Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

$ 

177 

$ 

(145 

) 

70

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Other
    Information   

The expected benefits to be paid under the US and International
    pension plans as well as the postretirement medical plan (which
    is disclosed net of the annual Medicare Part D subsidy,
    which ranges from $3 million to $7 million per year)
    were as follows:

Included in  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  at
    December 31, 2010 are non-cash pretax charges which have
    not yet been recognized in net periodic benefit cost. The
    estimated amounts that will be amortized from the estimated
    portion of each component of  Accumulated Other Comprehensive
    Income  which is expected to be recognized as a component of
    net periodic benefit cost during the year-ending
    December 31, 2011 are as follows:

(Stated in millions) 

Postretirement 

Pension 

Medical 

Plans 

Plan 

Net actuarial losses

$

89

$

11

Prior service cost/(credit)

$

132

$

(12

)

In addition to providing defined pension benefits and a
    postretirement medical plan, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries
    have other deferred benefit programs, primarily profit sharing
    and defined contribution pension plans. Expenses for these
    programs were $403 million, $418 million and
    $482 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

19.    

Supplementary
    Information   

Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows:

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  are summarized
    as follows:

Interest and other income, net  includes the following:

71

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Allowance for doubtful accounts  is as follows:

Discontinued
    Operations   

During the fourth quarter of 2009, Schlumberger recorded a net
    $22 million charge related to the resolution of a customs
    assessment pertaining to its former offshore contract drilling
    business, as well as the resolution of certain contingencies
    associated with other previously disposed of businesses. This
    amount is included in  Income (Loss) from Discontinued
    Operations  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .

During the first quarter of 2008, Schlumberger recorded a gain
    of $38 million related to the resolution of a contingency
    associated with a previously disposed of business. This gain is
    included in  Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations  in
    the  Consolidated Statement of Income .

72

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

The management of Schlumberger Limited is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a  
    15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
    Schlumberger Limited s internal control over financial
    reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Schlumberger Limited management assessed the effectiveness of
    its internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, it used the
    criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
    of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework.  Based on this
    assessment Schlumberger Limited management has concluded that,
    as of December 31, 2010, its internal control over
    financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

The effectiveness of Schlumberger Limited s internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010,
    has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent
    registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report
    which appears herein.

73

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Schlumberger Limited

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
    the related consolidated statements of income, of
    stockholders  equity and of cash flows present fairly, in
    all material respects, the financial position of Schlumberger
    Limited and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
    2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
    in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the
    Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010,
    based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions
    on these financial statements and on the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
    control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
    reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
    control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
    material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
    and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas

February 4, 2011

74

Table of Contents   

Part II, Item 8, 9, 9A, 9B

Quarterly
    Results     

(Unaudited)

The following table summarizes Schlumberger s results by
    quarter for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.

1.

Gross margin equals  Revenue
     less  Cost of revenue .

2.

Amounts may not add due to rounding.

3.

Net income in the first quarter of
    2010 includes after-tax charges of $75 million.

4.

Net income in the third quarter of
    2010 includes net after-tax credits of $859 million.

5.

Net income in the fourth quarter of
    2010 includes after-tax charges of $121 million.

6.

Net income in the second quarter of
    2009 includes after-tax charges of $207 million.

*

Mark of Schlumberger

Item 9   .      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial
    Disclosure   .   

None.

Item 9A   .      

Controls
    and
    Procedures   .   

Schlumberger has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
    and with the participation of Schlumberger s management,
    including the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and the
    Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ), of the effectiveness
    of the design and operation of Schlumberger s disclosure
    controls and procedures. Based upon Schlumberger s
    evaluation, the CEO and the CFO have concluded that, as of
    December 31, 2010, the disclosure controls and procedures
    were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information
    required to be disclosed in the reports Schlumberger files and
    submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
    processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
    specified in SEC rules and forms.

There has been no change in Schlumberger s internal control
    over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
    December 31, 2010 that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially affect, Schlumberger s
    internal control over financial reporting.

See Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.

Item 9B   .      

Other
    Information   .   

None.

75

Table of Contents   

Part III, Item 10, 11, 12

PART III

Item 10   .    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of
    Schlumberger   .  

See  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of
    Security Holders   Executive Officers of
    Schlumberger  of this Report for Item 10 information
    regarding executive officers of Schlumberger. The information
    under the captions  Election of Directors, 
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance,   Corporate Governance  
    Director Nominations  and  Corporate
    Governance   Board Committees   Audit
    Committee  in Schlumberger s 2011 Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Schlumberger has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all of
    its directors, officers and employees, including its principal
    executive, financial and accounting officers, or persons
    performing similar functions. Schlumberger s Code of Ethics
    is posted on its corporate governance website located at
     www.slb.com/ir . In addition, amendments to the Code of
    Ethics and any grant of a waiver from a provision of the Code of
    Ethics requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be
    disclosed on Schlumberger s corporate governance website
    located at  www.slb.com/ir .

Item 11   .    

Executive
    Compensation   .  

The information set forth under the captions  Compensation
    Discussion and Analysis,   Executive
    Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report 
    and  Director Compensation  in Schlumberger s
    2011 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12   .    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder
    Matters   .  

The information under the captions  Security Ownership by
    Certain Beneficial Owners  and  Security Ownership by
    Management  in Schlumberger s 2011 Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information   

The table below sets forth the following information as of
    December 31, 2010 for (1) all compensation plans
    previously approved by our stockholders and (2) all
    compensation plans not previously approved by our stockholders.

*

Excluding securities reflected in
    column (a)

Equity compensation plans approved by Schlumberger stockholders
    include the Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan, as amended; the
    Schlumberger 1998 Stock Option Plan, as amended; the
    Schlumberger 2001 Stock Option Plan, as amended; the
    Schlumberger 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended; the
    Schlumberger 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended; the 2010
    Schlumberger Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan; the Schlumberger
    Discounted Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and the Schlumberger
    2004 Stock and Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors.

76

Table of Contents   

Part III, Item 13, 14

Item 13   .    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   .  

The information under the captions  Corporate
    Governance   Director Independence  and
     Corporate Governance   Policies and Procedures
    for Approval of Related Person Transactions  in
    Schlumberger s 2011 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 14   .    

Principal
    Accounting Fees and
    Services   .  

The information under the caption  Appointment of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in
    Schlumberger s 2011 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein
    by reference.

77

Table of Contents   

Part IV, Item 15

PART IV

Item 15   .    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement
    Schedules   .  

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
    Report:

Financial statements of 20%-50% owned companies accounted for
    under the equity method and unconsolidated subsidiaries have
    been omitted because they do not meet the materiality tests for
    assets or income.

(2)  

Financial Statement Schedules not required

(3)  

Exhibits: the exhibits listed in the accompanying  Index to
    Exhibits  are filed or incorporated by reference as part of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

78

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

Date: February 4, 2011

Schlumberger Limited

By:  /s/   Howard
    Guild 

Howard
    Guild 
    Chief Accounting Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Name 

Title 

* 

Andrew
    Gould

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/   Simon
    Ayat 

Simon
    Ayat

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
    Financial Officer)

/s/   Howard
    Guild 

Howard
    Guild

Chief Accounting Officer 
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

* 

Philippe
    Camus

Director

* 

Peter
    L.S. Currie

Director

* 

Tony
    Isaac

Director

* 

K.V.
    Kamath

Director

* 

Nikolay
    Kudryavtsev

Director

* 

Adrian
    Lajous

Director

* 

Michael
    E. Marks

Director

* 

Elizabeth
    Moler

Director

* 

Leo
    Rafael Reif

Director

79

Table of Contents   

Name 

Title 

* 

Tore
    Sandvold

Director

* 

Henri
    Seydoux

Director

/s/   Alexander
    C. Juden  

*By
    Alexander C. Juden Attorney-in-Fact

February 4, 2011

80

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

81

Table of Contents   

Powers of Attorney (*)

Philippe Camus

dated:

Peter L.S. Currie

January 20, 2011

Andrew Gould

Tony Isaac

K.V. Kamath

Nikolay Kudryavtsev

Adrian Lajous

Michael E. Marks

Elizabeth Moler

Leo Rafael Reif

Tore I. Sandvold

Henri Seydoux

24

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule
    13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)

31.1

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule
    13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)

31.2

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)

32.1

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)

32.2

The following materials from Schlumberger Limited s Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010,
    formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii)
    Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) Consolidated Statement of Cash
    Flows, (iv) Consolidated Statement of Equity and (v) Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text. (*)

101

(*)  Exhibits physically filed with this Form 10-K.
    All other exhibits are incorporated by reference.

(+)  Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements.

82

<EX-21>
 2
 h77795exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

Exhibit 21  

Significant
    Subsidiaries  

Listed below are the significant first tier subsidiaries of the
    Registrant, along with the total number of active subsidiaries
    directly or indirectly owned by each as of December 31,
    2010. Certain second and third tier subsidiaries, though
    included in the numbers, are also shown by name. Ownership is
    100% unless otherwise indicated. The business activities of the
    subsidiaries have been keyed as follows: (a) Oilfield
    Services, (b) WesternGeco, (c) General/Multiple
    Segments.

U.S. 

Non-U.S. 

Schlumberger B.V., Netherlands (c)

6

(a)

79

(a) 1 

22

(b) 2 

12

(c)

Schlumberger Canada Limited, Ontario (c)

Schlumberger SA, France (c)

Services Petroliers Schlumberger, France (a)

Schlumberger Norge AS (c)

Schlumberger Holdings Corporation, Delaware (c)

Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Texas (c)

Smith International Inc (c)

Schlumberger UK Limited

Schlumberger Plc, UK (c)

Schlumberger Oilfield UK Plc, UK (a)

WesternGeco Limited, UK(b)

Schlumberger Antilles N.V., Cura ao (a)

2

(a)

Schlumberger Oilfield Holdings Limited, BVI (c)

1

(a)

136

(a) 3 

28

(b) 4 

Schlumberger Holdings Limited, BVI (a)

11

(c) 5 

Dowell Schlumberger Corporation, BVI (a)

Schlumberger Middle East S.A., Panama (a)

Schlumberger Offshore Services Limited, BVI (a)

Schlumberger Overseas, S.A., Panama (a)

Schlumberger Seaco, Inc., Panama (a)

Schlumberger Surenco, S.A., Panama (a)

WesternGeco Seismic Holdings Limited, BVI (b)

Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Texas (c)

11

(a) 6 

1

(b)

2

(b)

4

(c)

WesternGeco L.L.C., Delaware (b)

1

Includes eight majority-owned
    subsidiaries and two 50%-owned subsidiary.

2

Includes one majority-owned
    subsidiary and one 50%-owned subsidiary.

3

Includes three majority-owned
    subsidiaries and two 50%-owned subsidiaries.

4

Includes one majority-owned
    subsidiaries.

5

Includes one majority-owned
    subsidiary.

6

Includes one majority-owned
    subsidiary and one 50%-owned subsidiary

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 h77795exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

Exhibit 23  

Consent of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
    Registration Statements on
     Form S-8 
    (Nos.
     333-36364; 
     333-67330; 
     333-115277; 
     333-124534; 
    and
     333-151920), 
    and on
     Form S-4 
    (Nos.
     333-97899 
    and
     333-166326, 
    as amended by post-effective amendment on
     Form S-8) 
    of Schlumberger Limited of our report dated February 4,
    2011 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
    which appears in this
     Form 10-K. 

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas

February 4, 2011

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 4
 h77795exv24.htm
 EX-24

exv24 

Exhibit 24  

Power of
    Attorney  

Each of the undersigned, in the capacity or capacities set forth
    below his or her signature as a member of the Board of Directors
     and/or  an
    officer of Schlumberger Limited, a Cura ao corporation
    ( the Corporation ), hereby appoints Simon Ayat,
    Howard Guild and Alexander C. Juden, or either of them, the
    attorney or attorneys of the undersigned, with full power of
    substitution and revocation, for and in the name, place and
    stead of the undersigned to execute and file with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
    Act ) for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010,
    and any amendment or amendments to any such Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and any agreements, consents or waivers relative thereto, and to
    take any and all such other action for and in the name and place
    and stead of the undersigned as may be necessary or desirable in
    order to comply with the Exchange Act or the rules and
    regulations thereunder.

/s/  Philippe
    Camus

Philippe
    Camus 
    Director

/s/  Michael
    E. Marks

Michael
    E. Marks 
    Director

/s/  Peter
    L.S. Currie

Peter
    L.S. Currie 
    Director

/s/  Elizabeth
    Moler

Elizabeth
    Moler 
    Director

/s/  Andrew
    Gould

Andrew
    Gould 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

/s/  Leo
    Rafael Reif

Leo
    Rafael Reif 
    Director

/s/  Tony
    Isaac

Tony
    Isaac 
    Director

/s/  Tore
    Sandvold

Tore
    Sandvold 
    Director

/s/  K.V.
    Kamath

K.V.
    Kamath 
    Director

/s/  Henri
    Seydoux

Henri
    Seydoux 
    Director

/s/  Nikolay
    Kudryavtsev

Nikolay
    Kudryavtsev 
    Director

/s/  Adrian
    Lajous

Adrian
    Lajous 
    Director

Date: January 20, 2011

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 h77795exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

CERTIFICATION OF
    CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I, Andrew Gould, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schlumberger Limited;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a)  

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

b)  

Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)  

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

d)  

Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)  

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b)  

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 4, 2011

/s/  Andrew
    Gould

Andrew
    Gould 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 h77795exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2  

CERTIFICATION OF
    CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  

I, Simon Ayat, certify that:

1. 

I have reviewed this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schlumberger Limited;

2. 

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. 

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report;

4. 

The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a)  

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared;

b)  

Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)  

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and

d)  

Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and

5. 

The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)  

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b)  

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 4, 2011

/s/  Simon
    Ayat

Simon
    Ayat 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 h77795exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

CERTIFICATION OF
    CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO 
    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
    SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the
     Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2010
    as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
    hereof (the  Report ), I, Andrew Gould, Chairman
    and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
    18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to
      906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),

and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

Date: February 4, 2011

/s/  Andrew
    Gould

Andrew
    Gould 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger Limited and
    will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not
    be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18
    of the Exchange Act.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 h77795exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2  

CERTIFICATION OF
    CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO 
    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
    SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the
     Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2010
    as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
    hereof (the  Report ), I, Simon Ayat, Executive
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
    certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted
    pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),

and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company.

Date: February 4, 2011

/s/  Simon
    Ayat

Simon
    Ayat 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger Limited and
    will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not
    be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18
    of the Exchange Act.

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 slb-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 slb-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 slb-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 12
 slb-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 13
 slb-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 slb-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

