<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140131_10-K_edgar_data_87347_0001564590-14-000090_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>29214734</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>183972</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>8278724</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6472705</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8440315</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3947726</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>111</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001564590-14-000090.hdr.sgml : 20140131
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140131084108
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001564590-14-000090
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140131
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140131

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHLUMBERGER LTD /NV/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000087347
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL, GAS FIELD SERVICES, NBC [1389]
		IRS NUMBER:				520684746
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			P8
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04601
		FILM NUMBER:		14562831

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7135132000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER NV
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920804

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880812

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001564590-14-000090.txt : 20140131

10-K
 1
 slb-10k_20131231.htm
 FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION     Washington, D.C. 20549          Form 10-K          (Mark One)     
  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013     OR     
  For the transition period from __________ to __________     Commission File Number 1-4601          Schlumberger N.V.     (Schlumberger Limited)     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)              
 
  Registrant s telephone number in the United States, including area code, is: (713) 375-3400     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:         

Title of each class   
     
   Name of each exchange on which registered   

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share   
       
   New York Stock Exchange    Euronext Paris    The London Stock Exchange    SIX Swiss Exchange   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES         NO             Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES         NO             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES         NO             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files.) YES         NO             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.         

Large accelerated filer   

Accelerated filer   

Non-accelerated filer   

Smaller reporting company   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). YES         NO             As of June 30, 2013, the aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $94.8 billion.     As of December 31, 2013, the number of shares of common stock outstanding was 1,307,330,369.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     Certain information required to be furnished pursuant to Part III of this Form 10-K is set forth in, and is hereby incorporated by reference herein from, Schlumberger s definitive proxy statement for its 2014 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed by Schlumberger with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2013 (the  2014 Proxy Statement ).                

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED     Table of Contents     Form 10-K         

Page   

PART I    

Item 1.   
    Business      
   3   

Item 1A.   
    Risk Factors      
   7   

Item 1B.   
    Unresolved Staff Comments      
   10   

Item 2.   
    Properties      
   10   

Item 3.   
    Legal Proceedings      
   10   

Item 4.   
    Mine Safety Disclosures      
   10   

PART II    

Item 5.   
    Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      
   11   

Item 6.   
    Selected Financial Data      
   13   

Item 7.   
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations      
   14   

Item 7A.   
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk      
   28   

Item 8.   
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      
   31   

Item 9.   
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      
   65   

Item 9A.   
    Controls and Procedures      
   65   

Item 9B.   
    Other Information      
   65   

PART III    

Item 10.   
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger      
   66   

Item 11.   
    Executive Compensation      
   66   

Item 12.   
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      
   66   

Item 13.   
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence      
   66   

Item 14.   
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services      
   66   

PART IV    

Item 15.   
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules      
   67   

Signatures      
   68   

Certifications   

PART I          Item 1.      Business.     All references in this report to  Registrant,   Company,   Schlumberger,   we  or  our  are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Cura ao) and its consolidated subsidiaries.       Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, Schlumberger today provides the industry s widest range of products and services from exploration through production. As of December 31, 2013, the Company employed approximately 123,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger has principal executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague.         Schlumberger operates in each of the major oilfield service markets, managing its business through three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production.  Each Group consists of a number of technology-based service and product lines, or Technologies.  These Technologies cover the entire life cycle of the reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger holds leading positions.  The business is also reported through four geographic Areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East   Asia. Within these Areas, a network of GeoMarket* regions provides logistical, technical and commercial coordination.        The role of the Groups and Technologies is to ensure that Schlumberger provides the best possible service to customers and that it remains at the forefront of technology development.  The Groups and Technologies are collectively responsible for driving excellence in execution throughout their businesses, overseeing operational processes, resource allocation, personnel and delivering superior financial results. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and brings together geographically focused teams to meet local needs and deliver customized solutions. The Areas and GeoMarkets are responsible for providing the most efficient and cost effective support possible to the operations.       The Groups are as follows:       Reservoir Characterization Group     Consists of the principal Technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon resources.  These include WesternGeco, Wireline, Testing Services, Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) and PetroTechnical Services.  WesternGeco seismic acquisition services and PetroTechnical Services interpretation solutions combine to provide the industry s most extensive multiclient library.                    WesternGeco   is a leading geophysical services supplier, providing comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services.  WesternGeco provides increasingly accurate measurements and images of subsurface geology and rock properties for both customer proprietary and multiclient surveys.     
               Wireline   provides the information necessary to evaluate subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to monitor and evaluate well production.  Wireline offers both openhole and cased-hole services including wireline perforating.     
               Testing Services   provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole.  The Technology also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services.     
               Schlumberger Information Solutions   provides software, consulting, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core oil and gas industry operational processes.     
               PetroTechnical Services   supplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert consulting services for reservoir characterization, field development planning production enhancement and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions.  PetroTechnical Services offers the industry s most extensive multiclient data library and provides industry petrotechnical training solutions.     
     Drilling Group     Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil and gas wells and comprises Bits   Advanced Technologies, M-I SWACO, Geoservices, Drilling   Measurements, Drilling Tools   Remedial and Integrated Project Management well construction projects.                    Bits   Advanced Technologies   designs, manufactures and markets roller cone and fixed cutter drill bits for all environments. The drill bits include designs for premium market segments where faster penetration rates and increased footage provide significant economic benefits in lowering overall well costs.  The technologies leverage proprietary modeling and simulation software for the design of application-specific bits and cutting structures.     
               M-I SWACO   is the leading supplier of drilling fluid systems engineered to improve drilling performance by anticipating fluids-related problems, fluid systems and specialty equipment designed to optimize wellbore productivity and production      
  3  

technology solutions formulated to maximize production rates. M-I SWACO also provides engineered managed pressure drilling and underbalanced drilling solutions, as well as environmental services and products to safely manage waste volumes generated in both drilling and production operations.     
               Geoservices   supplies mud logging services for geological and drilling surveillance.     
               Drilling   Measurements   provides directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services for all well profiles as well as engineering support.     
               Drilling Tools   Remedial   provides a wide variety of bottom hole assembly drilling tools, borehole enlargement technologies and impact tools, as well as a comprehensive collection of tubulars and tubular services for oil and gas drilling operations.     
           Production Group     Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes Well Services, Completions, Artificial Lift, Well Intervention, Water Services, Carbon Services and Schlumberger Production Management field production projects.                    Well Services   provides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production throughout the life of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities.      
               Completions   supplies well completion services and equipment that include packers, safety valves, sand control technology as well as a range of intelligent well completions technology and equipment.     
               Artificial Lift   provides production equipment and optimization services using electrical submersible pumps and gas lift equipment, as well as surface horizontal pumping systems.     
               Well Intervention   develops coiled tubing equipment and services and provides slickline services for downhole mechanical well intervention, reservoir monitoring and downhole data acquisition.     
               Water Services   specializes in the development, management and environmental protection of water resources.     
               Carbon Services   provides comprehensive geological storage solutions including storage site characterization for carbon dioxide.     
     Schlumberger has a 40% equity ownership interest in OneSubsea   TM   , a joint venture with Cameron International Corporation ( Cameron ).  The joint venture manufactures and develops products, systems and services for the subsea oil and gas market.  Schlumberger s 40% share of the net income of the joint venture is reflected in the results of the Production Group.    Schlumberger also offers customers its services through business models known as Integrated Project Management (IPM), for well construction projects, and Schlumberger Production Management (SPM), for field production projects. These models combine the required services and products of the Technologies with drilling rig management, specialized engineering and project management expertise to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement.        IPM projects are typically of multiyear duration and include start-up costs and significant third-party components that cover services that Schlumberger does not provide directly.  Projects may be fixed price in nature and may contain penalties for non-performance.         SPM commercial arrangements create alignment between Schlumberger and the asset holder and/or the operator whereby Schlumberger receives remuneration in line with its value creation.  These projects are generally focused on developing and co-managing production of Schlumberger s customers  mature assets under long-term agreements.  Schlumberger will invest its own services and products, and in some cases cash into the asset.  Schlumberger is generally not paid for services and products at the time of providing the services or upon delivery of the products.  Instead, Schlumberger is generally compensated on a fee-per-barrel basis for any incremental production Schlumberger helps deliver above a mutually agreed baseline.       Supporting the Technologies is a global network of research and engineering centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.       Managed outside the Group structure is Schlumberger Business Consulting, which helps oil and gas companies achieve fast and sustainable performance improvements.         Schlumberger primarily uses its own personnel to market its offerings. The customer base, business risks and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers, and the labor force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are numerous competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well testing, drilling and completion fluids, coiled-tubing, drill bits,  measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling and directional drilling services, mud logging, as well as fully computerized logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large proportion of Schlumberger offerings is non-rig related; consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate to rig count fluctuations.    4  

GENERAL     Intellectual Property     Schlumberger and its affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to patents, proprietary information and software tools and applications that, in the aggregate, are material to Schlumberger s business. While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is considered material to Schlumberger s business.     Seasonality     Seasonal changes in weather and significant weather events can temporarily affect the delivery of oilfield services. For example, the spring thaw in Canada and consequent road restrictions can affect activity levels, while the winter months in the North Sea, Russia and China can produce severe weather conditions which typically result in reduced levels of activity. Hurricanes and typhoons can disrupt coastal and offshore operations. Additionally, customer spending patterns for multiclient data, software and other oilfield services and products generally result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of each year as clients seek to utilize their annual budgets.     Customers and Backlog of Orders     For the year ended December 31, 2013, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than WesternGeco, Schlumberger has no significant backlog due to the nature of its businesses. The WesternGeco backlog, which is based on signed contracts with customers, was $0.9 billion at December 31, 2013 ($1.0 billion at December 31, 2012).     Financial Information     Financial information by business segment and geographic area for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is provided in Note 17 of the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .     Executive Officers of Schlumberger     The following table sets forth, as of   January 31, 2014  , the names and ages of the executive officers of Schlumberger, including all offices and positions held by each for at least the past five years.      

5  

Available Information     The Schlumberger Internet website is   www.slb.com  . Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website,   www.slb.com/ir  , as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations website at   www.slb.com/ir   access to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after     6  

such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC s Internet website at www.sec.gov.   Copies are also available, without charge, from Schlumberger Investor Relations, 5599 San Felipe, 17 th  Floor, Houston, Texas 77056.  Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.          Item 1A.      Risk Factors.     The following discussion of risk factors contains important information for the understanding our  forward-looking statements,  which are discussed immediately following Item 7A. of this Form 10-K and elsewhere. These risk factors should also be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the   Consolidated Financial Statements   and related notes included in this Form 10-K.     We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry s view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including:                    demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions;      
                 the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) to set and maintain production levels for oil;      
                 oil and gas production levels by non-OPEC countries;      
                 the level of excess production capacity;      
                 political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest;      
                 the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity;      
                 access to potential resources;      
                 governmental policies and subsidies;      
                 the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;      
                 technological advances affecting energy consumption; and      
                 weather conditions.      
  The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate.     Our non-United States operations accounted for approximately 73% of our consolidated revenue in 2013, 72% in 2012 and 71% in 2011. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks, including:                    political and economic conditions in certain areas;      
                 exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions;      
                 social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;      
                 confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;      
                 deprivation of contract rights;      
                 trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries;      
                 restrictions under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar legislation in other countries;      
                 restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;      
  7  

currency exchange controls;      
                 inflation; and      
                 currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations.      
  In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including Sudan and Cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. United States law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our historical operations in countries that are subject to United States trade and economic sanctions. If any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.     We are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain US state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.     During 2013, certain non-US subsidiaries of Schlumberger provided oilfield services to the National Iranian Oil Company and certain of its affiliates ( NIOC ). Schlumberger s 2013 revenue attributable to this activity was $102 million, which resulted in a net loss of $69 million. During the second quarter of 2013, Schlumberger completed the wind down of its service operations in Iran. As a result, Schlumberger has reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. All prior periods have been restated accordingly.     Schlumberger s activity in Iran during 2013 included obtaining services from and engaging in other dealings with the government of Iran that were incidental to operating in Iran, and the expenses of which are reflected in the results disclosed above. These services and other dealings consisted of paying taxes, duties, license fees and other typical governmental charges, along with payments for utilities, transportation, hotel accommodations, facility rentals, telecommunications services, newspaper advertisements, recreational and fitness memberships, and the purchase of routine office and similar supplies from entities associated with the government of Iran. Collections of amounts owed to Schlumberger for services rendered in Iran were received in part by depository accounts held by two non-US subsidiaries of Schlumberger at a branch of Bank Saderat Iran ( Saderat ), and in part by a depositary account held by one of such non-US subsidiaries at Bank Tejarat ( Tejarat ) in Tehran. The accounts at Tejarat are also used in connection with payment of expenses incidental to collection of amounts owed to Schlumberger for prior services.  The accounts at Saderat are maintained solely for the deposit by NIOC of amounts owed to non-US subsidiaries of Schlumberger for prior services. One of the non-US subsidiaries also maintained a depository account at Bank Sarmayeh ( Sarmayeh ) which, together with the account at Tejarat, was maintained for the payment of expenses such as payroll expenses, rental payments and taxes. In addition, NIOC maintained bank accounts at Bank Melli Iran ( Melli ) through which it made payments to a non-US subsidiary of Schlumberger for services provided in Iran under letters of credit issued by Melli. Schlumberger maintains no bank accounts at Melli. Schlumberger has discontinued dealings with Melli and Sarmayeh, and anticipates that it will discontinue its dealings with  Saderat and Tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to Schlumberger for prior services rendered in Iran.     Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations.     We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for  strict liability  for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances.     We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.     8  

We could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     The technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. Our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. An accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. Our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     Demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law.     Some international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. Such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     Some international, national and state governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. Specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. Proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. Future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. If such additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     If we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold.     If we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     Limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold.     Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights.     The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations.     We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations.     Severe weather conditions may affect our operations.     Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.     9  

Item 1B.      Unresolved Staff Comments.     None.          Item 2.      Properties.     Schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. Schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing centers as its  principal owned or leased facilities.      The following sets forth Schlumberger s principal owned or leased facilities:     Beijing, China; Clamart, France; Mumbai, India; Fuchinobe, Japan; Oslo, Norway; Singapore; Abingdon, Cambridge and Stonehouse, United Kingdom; Moscow, Russia; and within the United States: Boston, Massachusetts; Houston, Rosharon and Sugar Land, Texas; Battle Mountain, Nevada; Greybull, Wyoming and Florence, Kentucky.          Item 3.      Legal Proceedings.     The information with respect to this Item 3. Legal Proceedings is set forth in Note 16 of the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .          Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures.     The barite and bentonite mining operations of M-I LLC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. Information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K is included in Exhibit 95 to this Form 10-K.           10  

PART II          Item 5.      Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.     As of December 31, 2013, there were 21,929 stockholders of record. The principal United States market for Schlumberger s common stock is the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ), where it is traded under the symbol  SLB,  although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the United States, including the Euronext Paris, the London Stock Exchange and the SIX Swiss Exchange.     Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share     Quarterly high and low prices for Schlumberger s common stock as reported by the NYSE (composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2013 and 2012, were:            
 
  On January 16, 2014, Schlumberger announced that its Board of Directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 28%, to $0.40.     There are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. Under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any Cura ao withholding or other Cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares.     The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on Schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of Schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the Standard   Poor s 500 Index (S P 500 Index) and the cumulative total return on the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX) over the five-year period ended December 31, 2013. The stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. The following graph and related information shall not be deemed  soliciting material  or to be  filed  with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that Schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing.        11  

Comparison of five-year cumulative total return among     Schlumberger common stock, the S P 500 Index and the     Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX)             Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2008 in Schlumberger common stock, in the S P 500 Index and in the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX) and reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment.     Share Repurchases     On July 18, 2013, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for Schlumberger common stock, to be completed at the latest by June 30, 2018.     Schlumberger s common stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended December 31, 2013 was as follows:         
 
  In connection with the exercise of stock options under Schlumberger s incentive compensation plans, Schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. Schlumberger does not view these transactions as requiring disclosure under this Item 5 as the number of shares of Schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material.     Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities     None.        12  

Item 6.      Selected Financial Data.     The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K in order to understand factors, such as business combinations and charges and credits, which may affect the comparability of the Selected Financial Data:    
 
       (1)               Net Debt  represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.      
        13  

Item 7.      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.     The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and resources. Such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K.     Executive Overview       Schlumberger revenue in 2013 reached a new high of $45.3 billion   an increase of 8% over 2012. International revenue grew by $3.2 billion, or 11%, on higher exploration and development activity   both offshore and in key land markets. In North America, we demonstrated continued resilience to the challenging land market by growing the business by close to $400 million, or 3%, aided by our strong position in the offshore market   particularly in the US Gulf of Mexico.      Yearly growth in global oil demand has been stabilizing at close to 1 million barrels per day for the past three years. This has been driven by the emerging economies, notably in Asia and in the Middle East, while consumption in the OECD countries has levelled after declining for three consecutive years as a result of energy efficiency gains. In terms of supply, markets are well balanced, with North America benefiting from the activity-intensive development of tight oil resources that almost single-handedly drove the increase in global crude oil production in 2013. Output from other areas, both OPEC and non-OPEC, remained stable. In terms of price, geopolitical and  security tensions in the Middle East, and major outages in Libya supported oil prices, with spot Brent prices averaging $109- per barrel in 2013, only slightly below the $112 per barrel of 2012.    International gas markets remained tight during the year, driven by strong demand in Japan and in the emerging economies in Asia. Relatively limited additional liquefied natural gas and interregional pipeline capacity contributed to support prices at oil-parity in the Asian spot markets. In North America, after having reached a 10-year low in 2012, natural gas spot prices rallied by 35% in 2013 from progressive rebalancing of supply and demand as well as from relatively cold temperatures in the final months of the year. Steady production levels   particularly from the continuing development of the Marcellus shale gas play   together with strong competition with coal in the power sector prevented prices from rising further.    Against this background, Schlumberger s international performance during the year was led by the Middle East   Asia Area, which grew by 23% from an expanding portfolio of projects and activities in key land markets in the Middle East, increased exploration and development work across Asia, and sustained activity in Australasia and China.  Within the Europe/CIS/Africa Area, year-on-year revenue grew by 8%, led by the Russia and Central Asia region on strong land activity in West Siberia, and robust offshore projects in Sakhalin. The Latin America Area grew by 3% over the year, mainly due to good progress on the Shushufindi production management project in Ecuador, and strong integrated project management activity in Argentina. In North America, revenue strengthened by 3% driven by   higher offshore drilling and exploration activity.    All three Product Groups benefited from the growth in activity.   Reservoir Characterization revenue grew by 10% over the year from   market share gains and higher exploration activity in offshore and key international land markets. Drilling Group revenue, up 9%, increased on robust demand for services as offshore drilling activity strengthened in the US Gulf of Mexico, Sub-Saharan Africa, Russia and in the Middle East   Asia Area.  Drilling Group revenue also increased in key international land markets in Saudi Arabia, China and Australia on higher rig count.    Production Group revenue grew by 8%, mostly from activity in the international GeoMarkets.    During the first half of the year, the OneSubsea joint venture with Cameron was finalized, combining Schlumberger s deep understanding of the reservoir and our industry-leading well completions, subsea processing and integration capabilities with the design capability, manufacturing excellence, and installation record of Cameron. OneSubsea was formed to offer best-in-class subsea solutions by optimizing complete subsea production systems that help customers improve subsea development production and recovery.     Looking ahead to 2014, economic fundamentals are expected to further improve in the US while Europe seems set for stronger growth. These positive effects should overcome lower growth in some developing economies and support a continuing rebound in the world economy. Within this scenario, oil demand forecasts in 2014 have now been revised upwards to the highest growth rate in several years. Oil supply is expected to keep pace with demand   with the market therefore remaining well balanced. Natural gas prices internationally should be supported by demand in Asia and Europe, while in the US no change in fundamentals is expected, with any meaningful recovery in dry gas drilling activity still some way out in the future.    With exploration and production spending expected to grow further in 2014, led by international activity and continuing strength in deepwater US Gulf of Mexico, Schlumberger remains positive and optimistic about the year ahead on the back of a well-balanced business portfolio, wide geographical footprint, and strengthening operational, organizational, and executional capability.          14  

The following discussion and analysis of results of operations should be read in conjunction with the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .     Fourth Quarter 2013 Results     Product Groups         
 
     Geographic Areas         
 
       (1)             Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible assets and other nonoperating items.      

(4)             Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .      
  Oilfield Services     Fourth-quarter revenue of $11.91 billion increased $298 million or 3% sequentially. Approximately 75% of the sequential revenue increase came from the year-end surge in product and software sales, and 25% came from higher multiclient seismic sales.      15  

International revenue of $8.15 billion grew $235 million or 3% sequentially, while North America Area revenue of $3.65 billion increased $47 million or 1% sequentially.      Sequentially, Reservoir Characterization Group revenue grew 1% to $3.25 billion, while Drilling Group revenue of $4.50 billion was 2% higher. Production Group revenue increased 5% sequentially to $4.22 billion. The increase in     Reservoir Characterization Group revenue resulted mainly from robust international end-of-year SIS software sales and an increase in WesternGeco multiclient sales.  This increase, however, was largely offset by a sharp seasonal decline in WesternGeco Marine revenue on lower vessel utilization following completion of surveys in Norway and Canada.  Wireline also declined sequentially on the conclusion of exploration projects in Eastern Canada and East Africa together with the seasonal slowdown in Russia.  Drilling Group revenue increased on international demand for Drilling   Measurements and M-I SWACO technologies in Mexico and Russia   Central Asia as well as in the Middle East   Asia Area. Stronger IPM project activity in Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Iraq also contributed to the increase.  The increase in Production Group revenue resulted primarily from stronger Completions and Artificial Lift product year-end sales.  Well Intervention Services declined mainly in North America land, while Well Services revenue grew primarily from higher activity in international markets. Well Services stage count in North America land also increased, but revenue declined from persistent pricing weakness as a result of the continuing hydraulic horsepower oversupply.    Sequentially by Area, Middle East   Asia led the increase with revenue of $2.94 billion growing 5%, mainly from the continued increase in drilling activity and the start of new IPM projects in Saudi Arabia;  strong product sales and increased seismic activity in the United Arab Emirates; strong product and year-end software sales in Kuwait; strong land and offshore exploration activity in the Australasia and Thailand   Myanmar GeoMarkets; and increased WesternGeco marine vessel activity in the Brunei, Malaysia   Philippines GeoMarket. The increase, however, was partially reduced by a decline in revenue in Iraq from the temporary shut-down in operations linked to a security incident.  In Latin America, revenue of $2.00 billion increased 3%, led by Mexico and Central America on robust deepwater exploration in addition to stronger land-based project activities.  Strong IPM fracturing and drilling activity in Argentina and solid progress on SPM projects in Ecuador also contributed to the increase.  Europe/CIS/Africa revenue of $3.21 billion increased 1% mainly due to robust product and software sales across the Area particularly in Continental Europe; significant testing and seismic activities in Angola; and increased offshore seismic and drilling in Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan.  The increase, however, was partially reduced by seasonally lower activity in Russia and decreased WesternGeco vessel utilization following the seasonal transit of vessels out of the North Sea.  North America revenue of $3.65 billion increased 1% sequentially.  Land continued to experience pricing weakness in drilling, stimulation and wireline services, although the effect of this was offset by increased service intensity, improved efficiency, market share gains, new technology uptake and business expansion. Offshore revenue declined following seasonal completion of seismic and exploration campaigns in Eastern Canada while revenue in the US Gulf of Mexico grew on higher drilling and testing activities.    Fourth-quarter pretax operating income of $2.60 billion was up 4% sequentially. International pretax operating income of $1.92 billion increased 4% sequentially, while North America pretax operating income of $716 million declined 2% sequentially.    Sequentially, pretax operating margin of 21.9% increased 37 basis points (bps), as International pretax operating margin expanded 23 bps to 23.5%.  Middle East   Asia and Europe/CIS/Africa margins were steady at 26.1% and 22.6%, respectively, while Latin America expanded 59 bps to reach 21.2% on higher-margin exploration drilling and project activity.  North America pretax operating margin declined 67 bps to 19.6% due to a seasonal holiday slowdown in activity and continued pricing weakness on land.  Sequentially by segment, Reservoir Characterization Group pretax operating margin expanded 132 bps to 31.7% due to strong end-of-year sales of SIS software and WesternGeco multiclient licenses, while the pretax operating margins of the Drilling and Production Groups were 19.6% and 17.3%, respectively.    Reservoir Characterization Group     Fourth-quarter revenue of $3.25 billion increased 1% sequentially.  Pretax operating income of $1.03 billion was 5% higher sequentially.    Sequentially,     the increase in     revenue was mainly driven by robust international end-of-year SIS software sales and an increase in WesternGeco multiclient sales.  These increases, however, were largely offset by the sharp seasonal decline in WesternGeco Marine revenue on lower vessel utilization following completion of surveys in Norway and Canada.  Wireline also declined sequentially on the completion of exploration projects in Eastern Canada and East Africa, and the seasonal slowdown of activity in Russia.    Pretax operating margin of 31.7% increased 132 bps sequentially.  The sequential increase from strong end-of-year sales of SIS software and WesternGeco multiclient licenses was partially offset by lower WesternGeco Marine vessel utilization and decreased Wireline high-technology activity following completion of exploration projects.    Drilling Group     Fourth-quarter revenue of $4.50 billion was up 2% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $880 million was 2% lower sequentially.    16  

Sequentially, revenue increased on international demand for Drilling   Measurements and M-I SWACO technologies in Mexico and Russia   Central Asia as well as in the Middle East   Asia Area.  Stronger IPM project activity in Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Iraq also contributed to the increase.    Sequentially, pretax operating margin declined 69 bps to 19.6%.  The sequential decline was due to operational start-up delays and the geographical mix of activity.    Production Group     Fourth-quarter revenue of $4.22 billion increased 5% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $730 million was 3% higher sequentially.    The increase in revenue resulted primarily from stronger Completions and Artificial Lift product year-end sales coupled with new technology uptake and business expansion.  Well Intervention Services declined mainly in North America land, while Well Services revenue grew primarily from higher activity in international markets. Well Services stage count in North America land also increased, but revenue declined from the persistent pricing weakness resulting from the continued hydraulic horsepower oversupply.    Sequentially, pretax operating margin of 17.3% was essentially flat. The sequential result was attributable to the favorable impact of year-end Completions and Artificial Lift product sales and improved SPM profitability being fully offset by continued Well Services pricing weakness and decline in Well Intervention Services activity.       Full-Year 2013 Results     Product Groups         
 
  17  

Geographic Areas         
 
       (1)              Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible assets and other nonoperating items.      

(4)              Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .      
  Oilfield Services     Full-year 2013 revenue of $45.27 billion increased 8% versus the same period last year with international revenue 11% higher and North America Area revenue increasing 3%.       Internationally, higher exploration and development activities   in a number of GeoMarkets, both offshore and in key land markets, contributed to the increase.  The increase was led by the Middle East   Asia which increased 23%, mainly from robust results across a diversified portfolio of projects and activities in Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and United Arab Emirates; increased seismic surveys across Asia; and sustained land and offshore drilling activity in the Australasia and China GeoMarkets.  Europe/CIS/Africa increased 8%, led by the Russia and Central Asia region on strong land activity in West Siberia and robust offshore projects in Sakhalin.  The Sub-Saharan Africa region increased on strong development, exploration and seismic activities as well.  Latin America was 3% higher, mainly due to solid progress on an SPM project in Ecuador and strong IPM results in Argentina.       North America growth was driven by increased offshore revenue as a result of higher drilling and exploration activities.    This increase was largely offset by a decline in land as a result of a  reduction in rig count and pricing weakness in the areas of drilling, stimulation and wireline, although the downward pricing trend slowed during the second and third quarters.         Full-year 2013 pretax operating income of $9.34 billion increased 15% versus the same period last year as international pretax operating income of $6.88 billion increased 24%, while North America pretax operating income of $2.7 billion was flat.       Pretax operating margin of 20.6% increased 119 bps, as international pretax operating margin expanded 225 bps to 22.2% while North America pretax operating margin declined 55 bps to 19.7%.  The expansion in international margins was due to increased high-margin exploration, seismic and deepwater activities while the North American margin contraction was due to continued pricing pressure.    Reservoir Characterization Group     Full-year revenue of $12.25 billion was 10% higher than the same period last year led by Testing Services, WesternGeco, Wireline and SIS Technologies primarily due to   market share gains and higher exploration activity in both offshore and key international land markets.       Pretax operating margin increased 228 bps to 29.8% largely due to the higher-margin exploration activities that benefited Testing Services and Wireline Technologies.    18  

Drilling Group     Full-year revenue of $17.32 billion was 9% higher than the previous year primarily due to the robust demand for Drilling   Measurements services as offshore drilling activity strengthened in the US Gulf of Mexico, Sub-Sahara Africa, Russia and the Middle East   Asia Area and rig count increases in key international land markets, namely in Saudi Arabia, China and Australia.  Drilling Tools   Remedial and M-I SWACO Technologies expanded across all Areas and IPM increased on projects in Iraq, Australia and Argentina.       Pretax operating margin increased 156 bps to 19.1% primarily due to Drilling   Measurements, which benefited from higher-margin exploration activities both in North America offshore and in the international markets.    Production Group     Full-year revenue of $15.93 billion increased 8% year-on-year on increased Well Intervention activity and strong international sales of Completion and Artificial Lift products and Well Services technologies.  SPM also posted strong growth.  While North America land rig count declined, well and stage counts increased through drilling efficiency.  Despite the efficiency-driven activity increase, Well Services revenue in North America declined due to pricing weakness.       Pretax operating margin increased slightly by 72 bps to 16.4%. Margin expanded as a result of improved profitability in SPM, Completions and Artificial Lift, partially offset by a margin decline in Well Services technologies, primarily in North America, as a result of pricing pressure and cost inflation.       Full-Year 2012 Results     Product Groups    
 
  19  

Geographic Areas    
 
       (1)           Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible assets and other nonoperating items.      

(4)              Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .      
  Oilfield Services     Full-year 2012 revenue of $41.73 billion increased 14% versus the same period last year with North America Area 9% higher and international activity 16% higher. Internationally, higher exploration and development activities in a number of GeoMarkets both offshore and in key land markets contributed to the increase. The increase was led by the Europe/CIS/Africa Area which increased 18%, mainly in Russia and in the Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea, Angola, the East Africa and North Sea GeoMarkets. Latin America was higher by 17%, mainly in the Mexico   Central America; Venezuela, Trinidad   Tobago; and Ecuador GeoMarkets driven by strong IPM activity on land and robust offshore activity for Wireline and Drilling Group services and products. Middle East   Asia increased 14% on strong results in the Saudi Arabia   Bahrain; Australasia; Brunei, Malaysia   Philippines; and China GeoMarkets. The increase in North America was due to strong growth in North America offshore driven by robust deepwater and exploration activity that benefited the Reservoir Characterization and Drilling Groups Technologies. There was also an improvement in activity in North America land for the Production Group Technologies although the increase slowed in the second half of the year due to the weakness in the hydraulic fracturing market.     Full-year 2012 pretax operating income of $8.1 billion increased 15% year-on-year as international pretax operating income of $5.6 billion increased 32% while North America pretax operating income of $2.7 billion declined by 10% year-on-year.     Pretax operating margin was essentially flat at 19.5% as international pretax operating margin expanded 238 bps to 20.0% while North America pretax operating margin declined 441 bps to 20.2%. Europe/CIS/Africa posted a 435 bps improvement to reach 19.6% and Latin America increased 175 bps to 18.4% and Middle East   Asia reported a 48 bps increase to 21.9%. North America margin decline was due to Well Services production technologies, as a result of pricing pressure and cost inflation.     Reservoir Characterization Group     Full-year revenue of $11.16 billion was 15% higher than the same period last year led by Wireline, Testing Services, WesternGeco and SIS Technologies driven by improved offshore exploration activities across all Areas.     Pretax operating margin increased 340 bps to 27.5% largely due to the higher-margin exploration activities that benefited Wireline and Testing Services, higher SIS software sales, higher WesternGeco marine vessel utilization and improved UniQ land seismic productivity.     20  

Drilling Group     Full-year revenue of $15.89 billion was 15% higher than the previous year primarily due to the significantly improved exploration and development activities of M-I SWACO, Drilling   Measurements, and the other Drilling Group Technologies in North America offshore and in the international markets.     Pretax operating margin increased 145 bps to 17.6% primarily due to the increase in higher-margin activities of Drilling   Measurements, M-I SWACO and Drilling Tools   Remedial technologies - all of which benefited from exploration activities in North America offshore and in the international markets - mainly in the Europe/CIS/Africa Area.     Production Group     Full-year revenue of $14.80 billion increased 14% year-on-year, both in North America and the international markets. Well Intervention, Artificial Lift and Completions Technologies posted strong growth across all Areas. Well Services grew both in North America and internationally, with international growth led by Latin America and Europe/CIS/Africa.     Pretax operating margin decreased 388 bps to 15.7% mainly due to a decline in margins for Well Services production technologies, primarily in North America, as a result of pricing pressure and cost inflation. This was mitigated by margin expansion for the other Production Group Technologies led by Well Intervention Services and Completions.     Interest and Other Income     Interest and other income consisted of the following:         
 
  Interest Expense     Interest expense of $391 million in 2013 increased by $51 million compared to 2012 primarily due to an increase in the weighted average debt balance of approximately $1.2 billion combined with a 0.1% increase in the weighted average borrowing rates from 3.1% in 2012 to 3.2% in 2013.     Interest expense of $340 million in 2012 increased by $42 million compared to 2011 primarily due to the $1 billion of 1.25% Senior Notes due 2017 and $1 billion of 2.40% Senior Notes due 2022 that Schlumberger issued during 2012.     Other     Research   engineering   and   General   administrative   expenses, as a percentage of   Revenue  , were as follows:         
 
  Income Taxes     The Schlumberger effective tax rate was 21.3% in 2013, 24.4% in 2012, and 24.8% in 2011.     The Schlumberger effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings. When the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America increases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally decrease. Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America decreases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally increase.     The effective tax rate for 2013 was significantly impacted by the charges and credits described in Note 3 to the   Consolidated Financial Statements  . These charges and credits reduced the effective tax rate in 2013 by approximately two percentage points.  The decrease in the effective tax rate, excluding the impact of the charges and credits, from 2012 to 2013 was primarily attributable to the fact that Schlumberger generated a smaller proportion of its pretax earnings in North America in 2013 as compared to 2012.     21  

Charges and Credits     Schlumberger recorded significant charges and credits in continuing operations during 2013, 2012 and 2011. These charges and credits, which are summarized below, are more fully described in Note 3 to the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .     The following is a summary of the 2013 charges and credits:         
 
  The following is a summary of the 2012 charges and credits:         
 
  The following is a summary of the 2011 charges and credits:       
 
  Net Debt    Net Debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.     22  

Details of changes in Net Debt follow:         
 
       (1)              Includes multiclient seismic data costs.      

Key liquidity events during 2013, 2012 and 2011 included:     
  
                 During the second quarter of 2013, Schlumberger paid Cameron $600 million in connection with the formation of the OneSubsea joint venture.      
  
  23  

During the third quarter of 2012, Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its 56% interest in CE Franklin Ltd. for $122 million in cash.      
                 During the second quarter of 2012, Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its Wilson distribution business for $906 million in cash.      
  
                 During the second quarter of 2011, Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its Global Connectivity Services business for approximately $385 million in cash.      

On April 17, 2008, the Schlumberger Board of Directors (the  Board ) approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for shares of Schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market before December 31, 2011. On July 21, 2011, the Board approved an extension of this repurchase program to December 31, 2013. This program was completed during the third quarter of 2013.      
  On July 18, 2013, the Board approved a new $10 billion share repurchase program to be completed at the latest by June 30, 2018. Schlumberger had repurchased $1.7 billion of shares under this program as of December 31, 2013.     The following table summarizes the activity under this share repurchase program during 2013, 2012 and 2011:         
 
                  Net cash provided by operating activities was $9.8 billion in 2013, $6.5 billion in 2012 and $5.9 billion in 2011.  The improvement in net cash flow from operating activities in 2013 reflected a strong working capital performance despite an 8.5% increase in revenue.  Overall, working capital was essentially flat year-on-year with an increase in receivables largely offset by a decrease in inventory and an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.     
  From time to time in recent years, Schlumberger has experienced delays in payment from its national oil company customer in Venezuela. Schlumberger operates in approximately 85 countries. At December 31, 2013, only five of those countries (including Venezuela) individually accounted for greater than 5% of Schlumberger s accounts receivable balance of which only one, the United States, represented greater than 10%.     
  On January 16, 2014, Schlumberger announced that its Board had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 28%, to $0.40.     On January 17, 2013, Schlumberger announced that its Board had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 13.6%, to $0.3125.     On January 19, 2012, Schlumberger announced that its Board had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 10%, to $0.275.     
  
  Schlumberger s international defined benefit pension plans are a combined 104% funded at December 31, 2013 based on the projected benefit obligation. This compares to 88% funded at December 31, 2012.     24  

Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing approximately $500 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2014, subject to market and business conditions.        Schlumberger maintains a  5.0 billion Guaranteed Euro Medium Term Note program. This program provides for the issuance of various types of debt instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes in Euro, US dollar or other currencies.  Schlumberger has issued  0.5 billion 1.50% Guranteed Notes due 2019,   1.0 billion 2.75% Guaranteed Notes due 2015 and  1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2014 under this program.    As of December 31, 2013, Schlumberger had $8.4 billion of cash and short-term investments on hand. Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $4.0 billion with commercial banks, of which $3.7 billion was available and unused as of December 31, 2013. This included $3.5 billion of committed facilities which support commercial paper borrowings in Europe. Schlumberger believes that these amounts are sufficient to meet future business requirements for at least the next 12 months.     The total outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $95 million as of December 31, 2013.  Schlumberger did not have any commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2012.     Summary of Contractual Obligations         
 
       (1)             Excludes future payments for interest.      
  
       (3)             Represents an estimate of contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business. Although these contractual obligations are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow Schlumberger the option to reschedule and adjust its requirements based on business needs prior to the delivery of goods.      
  Refer to Note 18   Pension and Other Benefit Plans   of the   Consolidated Financial Statements   for details regarding Schlumberger s pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.     As discussed in Note 14   Income Taxes   of the   Consolidated Financial Statements  , included in the Schlumberger   Consolidated Balance Sheet   at December 31, 2013 is approximately $1.45 billion of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in the over 100 jurisdictions in which Schlumberger conducts business. Due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded, Schlumberger cannot make reliable estimates of the timing of cash outflows relating to these liabilities.     Schlumberger has outstanding letters of credit/guarantees which relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where Schlumberger operates.     Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates     The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires Schlumberger to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. The following accounting policies involve  critical accounting estimates  because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by Schlumberger about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of all of Schlumberger s significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the   Consolidated Financial Statements  .     Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.     25  

Multiclient Seismic Data     The WesternGeco business capitalizes the costs associated with obtaining multiclient seismic data. The carrying value of the multiclient seismic data library at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $667 million and $518 million, respectively. Such costs are charged to   Cost of revenue   based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no circumstances will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year, straight-line amortized value.     The carrying value of surveys is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future revenues, which involve significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future period. For purposes of performing the annual impairment test of the multiclient library, larger surveys, which are typically prefunded by customers, are analyzed for impairment on a survey by survey basis and other smaller surveys are analyzed based on two pools of surveys: United States and non-United States. The United States and non-United States pools were determined to be the most appropriate level at which to perform the impairment review based upon a number of factors including (i) various macroeconomic factors that influence the ability to successfully market surveys and (ii) the focus of the sales force and related costs.     Allowance for Doubtful Accounts     Schlumberger maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in order to record accounts receivable at their net realizable value. Judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments to this reserve. Allowances have been recorded for receivables believed to be uncollectible, including amounts for the resolution of potential credit and other collection issues such as disputed invoices. Depending on how such potential issues are resolved, or if the financial condition of Schlumberger customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, adjustments to the allowance may be required.     Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets     Schlumberger records the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired as goodwill. The goodwill relating to each of Schlumberger s reporting units is tested for impairment annually as well as when an event, or change in circumstances, indicates an impairment may have occurred.     Under generally accepted accounting principles, Schlumberger has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of one of its reporting units is greater than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, Schlumberger determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then there is no need to perform any further testing. However, if Schlumberger concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of a two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.     Schlumberger has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test.     For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill, Schlumberger s reporting units are its three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production. Schlumberger elected to perform the qualitative assessment described above for purposes of its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this assessment, Schlumberger concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of its reporting units was greater than its carrying amount. Accordingly, no further testing was required.     26  

Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involves significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future.     Income Taxes     Schlumberger conducts business in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are evolving. Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audits by the tax authorities. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs.     Pension and Postretirement Benefits     Schlumberger s pension and postretirement benefit obligations are described in detail in Note 18 to the   Consolidated Financial Statements  . The obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which include critical assumptions related to the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates. These assumptions are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or upon the occurrence of significant events.     The discount rate Schlumberger uses reflects the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with maturities matching the expected timing of the payment of the benefit obligations. The following summarizes the discount rates utilized by Schlumberger for its various pension and postretirement benefit plans:     
  
                 The weighted-average discount rate utilized to determine expense for Schlumberger s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plans decreased from 5.00% in 2012 to 4.25% in 2013.      
  
  The expected rate of return for our retirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return expected to be earned on plan assets over the period that benefits included in the benefit obligation are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return for Schlumberger s United States pension plans has been determined based upon expectations regarding future rates of return for the investment portfolio, with consideration given to the distribution of investments by asset class and historical rates of return for each individual asset class. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for each of the United States and international pension plans was 7.50% in both 2013 and 2012.  A lower expected rate of return would increase pension expense.     Schlumberger s medical cost trend rate assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. The overall medical cost trend rate assumption utilized to determine the 2013 postretirement medical expense was 7.5% graded to 5% over the next ten years. The overall medical trend rate assumption utilized to determine the postretirement medical liability at December 31, 2013 was 7.25% graded to 5% over the next ten years.     27  

The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for the United States and international pension plans:         
 
  The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for Schlumberger s United States postretirement medical plans:         
 
  Investments in Affiliated Companies     Investments in Affiliated Companies   on the consolidated balance sheet primarily reflects Schlumberger s investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages and are often still defining their strategic direction. Such investments are inherently risky and their success is dependent on factors such as technology development, market acceptance and their ability to raise additional funds. The technology being developed by these companies may never materialize and they could fail. Schlumberger monitors its portfolio to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. If an investment is considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired, it is written down to its fair value.       Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.     Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.     As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts business in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger s functional currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. Approximately 78% of Schlumberger s revenue in 2013 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar-reported expenses will increase.     A 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2013 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. If the 2013 average exchange rates of the US dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, Schlumberger s income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. Conversely, a 5% weakening of the US dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 2%.     In late January 2014, Venezuela announced the establishment of a dual exchange rate system.  A rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the US dollar will be applied to priority sectors, such as food and medicine, while other sectors of the economy will apply an exchange rate determined based on the results of the Venezuelan central bank s system of weekly currency auctions.  Schlumberger is in the process of analyzing the impact, if any, of this change on its 2014 consolidated financial statements.    Although the functional currency of Schlumberger s operations in Venezuela is the US dollar, a portion of the transactions are denominated in Venezuelan bolivares fuertes.  For financial reporting purposes, such local currency transactions are remeasured into US dollars at the official exchange rate  which was fixed at 6.3 Venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the US dollar for most of 2013. At December 31, 2013, Schlumberger had approximately $330 million of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivares fuertes.  Depending on the exchange rate Schlumberger is required to apply, it may incur a charge to its income statement in the first     28  

quarter of 2014.  For example, if Schlumberger was required to apply an exchange rate of 11.3 Venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the US dollar (the rate per the auction system at January 24, 2014), it would result in a charge of approximately $150 million.    Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. Foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses.     At December 31, 2013, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $7.6 billion in various foreign currencies of which $3.8 billion relate to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.     Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and, from time to time, interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2013, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $11.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $1.9 billion before considering the effects of cross currency and interest rate swaps.     Schlumberger s exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. Both   Short-term investments   and   Fixed income investments  ,   held to maturity  , which totaled approximately $5.3 billion at December 31, 2013, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in US dollars. The average return on investment was 0.5% in 2013.     The following table represents carrying amounts of Schlumberger s debt at December 31, 2013 by year of maturity:         
 
  The fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $11.3 billion as of December 31, 2013. The weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of December 31, 2013 was 2.8%.     Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.     Forward-looking Statements     This Form 10-K and other statements we make contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger s customers; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger s customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; operational delays; production declines; changes in government regulations and     29  

regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the Risk Factors section of this Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.             30  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.       SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME         
 
       (1)              Amounts may not add due to rounding.      
     See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              31  

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME         
 
     See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              32  

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET         
 
     See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              33  

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS         
 
       (1)              Includes multiclient seismic data costs.      
       (2)              Net of the effect of business acquisitions and divestitures.      
  See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          34  

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY         
 
  See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              35  

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES     SHARES OF COMMON STOCK         
 
     See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              36  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        1.    Business Description     Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Cura ao) and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively,  Schlumberger ) comprise the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production industry.        2.    Summary of Accounting Policies       The   Consolidated Financial Statements   of Schlumberger have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.     Principles of Consolidation     The accompanying   Consolidated Financial Statements   include the accounts of Schlumberger, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and other subsidiaries over which it exercises a controlling financial interest. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.     Reclassifications     Certain prior year items have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.     Use of Estimates     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, Schlumberger evaluates its estimates, including those related to collectibility of accounts receivable; recoverability of deferred costs, goodwill, intangible assets and investments in affiliates; income taxes; multiclient seismic data; contingencies and actuarial assumptions for employee benefit plans. Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.     Revenue Recognition     Schlumberger recognizes revenue based upon purchase orders, contracts or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement with the customer that include fixed or determinable prices provided that collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue is recognized for services when they are rendered. Revenue is recognized for products upon delivery, when the customer assumes the risks and rewards of ownership.     Revenue from seismic contract services performed on a dayrate basis is recognized as the service is performed. Revenue from other services, including pre-funded multiclient surveys, is recognized as the seismic data is acquired and/or processed on a proportionate basis as work is performed. This method requires revenue to be recognized based upon quantifiable measures of progress, such as square kilometers acquired. Multiclient data surveys are licensed or sold to customers on a non-transferable basis. Revenue from sales of completed multiclient data surveys is recognized upon obtaining a signed licensing agreement and providing customers with access to such data.     Revenue is occasionally generated from contractual arrangements that include multiple deliverables. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized as each item is delivered based on their relative fair value and when the delivered items have stand-alone value to the customer.     Revenue derived from the sale of licenses of Schlumberger software may include installation, maintenance, consulting and training services. If services are not essential to the functionality of the software, the revenue for each element of the contract is recognized separately based on its respective vendor specific objective evidence of fair value when all of the following conditions are met: a signed contract is obtained, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectibility is probable.     37  

Translation of Non-United States Currencies     The functional currency of Schlumberger is primarily the US dollar. Assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than US dollars are translated at period end exchange rates. The resulting adjustments are charged or credited directly to the   Equity   section of the   Consolidated Balance Sheet  . Revenue and expenses are translated at the weighted-average exchange rates for the period. Realized and unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income in the period in which they occur. Transaction losses of $24 million, $37 million and $25 million, net of hedging activities, were recognized in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.     Short-term and Fixed Income Investments     The   Consolidated Balance Sheet   reflects the Schlumberger investment portfolio separated between current and long term, based on maturity. Both   Short-term investments   and   Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity   are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds, and are substantially denominated in US dollars. Under normal circumstances it is the intent of Schlumberger to hold the investments until maturity, with the exception of investments that are considered trading ($194 million at both December 31, 2013 and 2012). Short-term investments that are designated as trading are stated at fair value, which is estimated using quoted market prices for those or similar investments. All other investments are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market. The unrealized gains/losses on investments designated as trading were not significant at both December 31, 2013 and 2012.     For purposes of the   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  , Schlumberger does not consider   Short-term investments   to be cash equivalents.     Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity   at December 31, 2013 of $363 million mature as follows: $51 million in 2015, $23 million in 2016, $51 million in 2017 and $238 million in 2018.     Inventories     Inventories   are stated at average cost or at market, whichever is lower. Costs included in   Inventories   consist of materials, direct labor and manufacturing overhead.     Investments in Affiliated Companies     Investments in companies in which Schlumberger does not have a controlling financial interest, but over which it has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method. Schlumberger s share of the after-tax earnings of equity method investees is included in   Interest and other income  . Investments in privately held companies in which Schlumberger does not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method. Investments in publicly traded companies in which Schlumberger does not have significant influence are accounted for as available-for-sale marketable securities. These marketable securities are reported at fair value, based on quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of   Accumulated other comprehensive loss  . The fair value of these marketable securities was $257 million and $222 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The cost basis of these marketable securities was $81 million at both December 31, 2013 and 2012.     Equity and cost method investments as well as investments in publicly traded companies are classified as   Investments in Affiliated Companies   in the   Consolidated Balance Sheet  .     Fixed Assets and Depreciation     Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is provided for by charges to income over the estimated useful lives of the assets using the straight-line method. Fixed assets include the manufacturing cost of oilfield technical equipment manufactured or assembled by subsidiaries of Schlumberger. Expenditures for replacements and improvements are capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred. Upon sale or other disposition, the applicable amounts of asset cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the balance sheet and the net amount, less proceeds from disposal, is charged or credited to income.     Multiclient Seismic Data     The multiclient library consists of completed and in-process seismic surveys that are licensed on a nonexclusive basis. Schlumberger capitalizes costs directly incurred in acquiring and processing the multiclient seismic data. Such costs are charged to   Cost of revenue   based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no circumstance will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year, straight-line amortized value.     38  

The carrying value of the multiclient library is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicating impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future cash flows, which involves significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future period.     Goodwill, Other Intangibles and Long-lived Assets     Schlumberger records the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired as goodwill. The goodwill relating to each of Schlumberger s reporting units is tested for impairment annually as well as when an event, or change in circumstances, indicates an impairment may have occurred.     Under generally accepted accounting principles, Schlumberger has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of one of its reporting units is greater than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, Schlumberger determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then there is no need to perform any further testing. However, if Schlumberger concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of a two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.     Schlumberger has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test.     For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill, Schlumberger s reporting units are its three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production. Schlumberger elected to perform the qualitative assessment described above for purposes of its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this assessment, Schlumberger concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of its reporting units was greater than its carrying amount. Accordingly, no further testing was required.     Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involve significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future.     Intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships, technology/technical know-how and tradenames acquired in business combinations. Customer relationships are generally amortized over periods ranging from 15 to 28 years, acquired technology/technical know-how are generally amortized over periods ranging from 10 to 18 years and tradenames are generally amortized over periods ranging from 15 to 30 years.     Taxes on Income     Schlumberger computes taxes on income in accordance with the tax rules and regulations of the many taxing authorities where the income is earned. The income tax rates imposed by these taxing authorities vary substantially. Taxable income may differ from pretax income for financial accounting purposes. To the extent that differences are due to revenue or expense items reported in one period for tax purposes and in another period for financial accounting purposes, an appropriate provision for deferred income taxes is made. Any effect of changes in income tax rates or tax laws are included in the provision for income taxes in the period of enactment. When it is more likely than not that a portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized in the future, Schlumberger provides a corresponding valuation allowance against deferred tax assets.     39  

Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by the tax authorities in most of the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Schlumberger recognizes the impact of a tax position in its financial statements if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the year in which such resolution occurs.     Schlumberger generally does not provide income taxes relating to undistributed earnings, as the earnings either would not be taxable when remitted or are considered to be indefinitely reinvested.     Concentration of Credit Risk     Schlumberger s assets that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, fixed income investments held to maturity, receivables from clients and derivative financial instruments. Schlumberger places its cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments held to maturity with financial institutions and corporations, and limits the amount of credit exposure with any one of them. Schlumberger regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of the issuers in which it invests. The receivables from clients are spread over many countries and customers. Schlumberger maintains an allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable based on expected collectibility and performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial condition. By using derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to changes in exchange rates and commodity prices, Schlumberger exposes itself to some credit risk. Schlumberger minimizes this credit risk by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties, limiting the exposure to each counterparty and monitoring the financial condition of its counterparties.     Research   Engineering     All research and engineering expenditures are expensed as incurred.     Earnings per Share     Basic earnings per share of Schlumberger from continuing operations is calculated by dividing income from continuing operations attributable to Schlumberger by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing income from continuing operations attributable to Schlumberger by the sum of (i) unvested restricted stock units and (ii) the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution assumes that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and that the proceeds are used by Schlumberger to purchase shares of its common stock at the average market price for the period.     40  

The following is a reconciliation from basic to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of Schlumberger for each of the last three years:         
 
  Employee stock options to purchase 12 million, 21 million and 14 million shares of common stock at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the option exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common stock, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per share would have been anti-dilutive.        3.    Charges and Credits       Schlumberger recorded the following charges and credits in continuing operations during 2013, 2012 and 2011:     2013                  During the fourth quarter, Schlumberger recorded a $152 million pretax ($122 million after-tax) provision relating to accounts receivable from a client in Brazil who filed for bankruptcy.      
                 During the second quarter, Schlumberger recorded a pretax and after-tax gain of $1.028 billion as a result of the deconsolidation of its subsea business in connection with the formation of the OneSubsea joint venture with Cameron International Corporation ( Cameron ). Refer to Note 4     Acquisitions   for further details.      
                 During the second quarter, Schlumberger recorded a $222 million pretax ($203 million after-tax) impairment charge relating to an investment in a company involved in developing drilling-related technology and a $142 million pretax and after-tax impairment charge relating to an investment in a contract drilling business.      
                 Although the functional currency of Schlumberger s operations in Venezuela is the US dollar, a portion of the transactions are denominated in local currency. In February 2013, Venezuela s currency was devalued from the prior exchange rate of 4.3 Bolivar Fuertes per US dollar to 6.3 Bolivar Fuertes per US dollar. As a result of this devaluation, Schlumberger recorded a pretax and after-tax foreign currency loss of $92 million during the first quarter of 2013.      
  41  

The following is a summary of these charges and credits:       
 
  2012                    Schlumberger recorded pretax merger and integration-related charges throughout 2012 of $128 million ($112 million after-tax) in connection with its 2010 acquisitions of Smith International, Inc. ( Smith ) and Geoservices.      
                 During the fourth quarter, Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of $33 million ($27 million after-tax) relating to severance in connection with an initiative to rationalize global overhead costs.      
  The following is a summary of these charges:         
 
  2011                    Schlumberger recorded pretax merger and integration-related charges throughout 2011 of $113 million ($95 million after-tax) in connection with its 2010 acquisitions of Smith and Geoservices.      
                 During the fourth quarter, Schlumberger recorded a pretax and after-tax charge of $60 million relating to certain assets in Libya that were no longer recoverable as a result of the political unrest there.      
                 During the second quarter, Schlumberger made a $50 million grant to the Schlumberger Foundation to support the Foundation s Faculty for the Future program, which supports talented women scientists from the developing world by helping them pursue advanced graduate studies in scientific disciplines at leading universities worldwide. As a result, Schlumberger recorded a $50 million charge ($40 million after-tax).      
  The following is a summary of these charges:         
 
        42  

4.    Acquisitions       Formation of OneSubsea Joint Venture    On June 30, 2013, Schlumberger and Cameron completed the formation of OneSubsea, a joint venture to manufacture and develop products, systems and services for the subsea oil and gas market. Schlumberger and Cameron each contributed all of their respective subsea businesses to the joint venture and Schlumberger made a $600 million cash payment to Cameron. Schlumberger owns 40% of OneSubsea and accounts for this investment under the equity method. Schlumberger recognized a pretax and after-tax gain of $1.028 billion, which is classified as   Gain on formation of OneSubsea   in the   Consolidated Statement of Income  , as a result of the deconsolidation of its subsea business. This gain is equal to the difference between the fair value of the Schlumberger subsea business, which was determined based on the present value of its estimated future cash flows, and its carrying value at the time of closing.       Other     Schlumberger has made other acquisitions and investments, none of which were significant individually or in the aggregate, for cash payments, net of cash acquired, of $610 million during 2013, $845 million during 2012, and $610 million during 2011.        5.    Inventories       A summary of inventories follows:         
 
        6.    Fixed Assets       A summary of fixed assets follows:         
 
  The estimated useful lives of Buildings   improvements are primarily 25 to 30 years. The estimated useful lives of Machinery   equipment are primarily 5 to 10 years. Seismic vessels are depreciated over periods ranging from 20 to 30 years.     Depreciation expense relating to fixed assets was $3.1 billion, $2.9 billion and $2.7 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.        43  

7.    Multiclient Seismic Data       The change in the carrying amount of multiclient seismic data is as follows:         
 
        8.    Goodwill       The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reporting unit were as follows:         
 
        9.    Intangible Assets       A summary of intangible assets follows:         
 
  Amortization expense was $330 million in 2013, $331 million in 2012 and $324 million in 2011.     The weighted average amortization period for all intangible assets is 20 years.     Amortization expense for the subsequent five years is estimated to be as follows: 2014: $357 million, 2015: $350 million, 2016: $334 million, 2017: $314 million and 2018: $307 million.        44  

10.    Long-term Debt and Debt Facility Agreements       Long-term Debt   consists of the following:         
 
       (1)              Schlumberger maintains a  5.0 billion Guaranteed Euro Medium Term Note program that provides for the issuance of various types of debt instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes in euro, US dollar or other currencies. The following is a summary of debt issued under this program:     
               Schlumberger issued  0.5 billion 1.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2019 in the fourth quarter of 2013.  Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus approximately 64 basis points.     
               Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 2.75% Guaranteed Notes due 2015 in the fourth quarter of 2010. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 2.56%.      
               Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2014 in the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.95%.     
       (2)              Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these dollar notes for euros on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a euro-denominated debt on which Schlumberger pays interest in euros at a rate of 2.39%.      
       (3)              These notes bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 55 basis points per year.      
  Schlumberger Limited fully and unconditionally guarantees the securities issued by certain of its subsidiaries, including securities issued by Schlumberger Investment SA, a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of Schlumberger.     At December 31, 2013, Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $4.0 billion with commercial banks, of which $3.7 billion was available and unused. This included $3.5 billion of committed facilities which supports a commercial paper program in Europe, of which $250 million mature in July 2016, $1.75 billion mature in July 2018 and $1.5 billion mature in November 2018. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country.     Commercial paper borrowings are classified as long-term debt to the extent of their backup by available and unused committed credit facilities maturing in more than one year and to the extent it is Schlumberger s intent to maintain these obligations for longer than one year. Borrowings under the commercial paper program at December 31, 2013 were $95 million and were classified within   Long-term debt   current portion   in the   Consolidated Balance Sheet  . There were no borrowings under the commercial paper programs at December 31, 2012.     The weighted average interest rate on variable rate debt as of December 31, 2013 was 2.8%.     Long-term Debt   as of December 31, 2013, is due as follows: $1.4 billion in 2015, $1.6 billion in 2016, $1.0 billion in 2017, $0.5 billion in 2018, $0.7 billion in 2019, $2.7 billion in 2021, $1.0 billion in 2022 and $1.5 billion in 2023.     45  

The fair value of Schlumberger s   Long-term Debt   at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 was $10.4 billion and $9.9 billion, respectively, and was estimated based on quoted market prices.     11.    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities       Schlumberger is exposed to market risks primarily related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To mitigate these risks, Schlumberger utilizes derivative instruments. Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.     Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk     As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts its business in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger s functional currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. Approximately 78% of Schlumberger s revenues in 2013 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens (strengthens) in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar - reported expenses will increase (decrease).     Schlumberger is exposed to risks on future cash flows to the extent that local currency expenses exceed revenues denominated in local currency that are other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to provide a hedge against a portion of these cash flow risks. These contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges, with the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedge recorded on the   Consolidated Balance Sheet   and in   Accumulated other comprehensive loss.   Amounts recorded in   Accumulated other comprehensive loss   are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods that the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of hedging instruments, if any, is recorded directly to earnings.     At December 31, 2013, Schlumberger recognized a cumulative net $29 million gain in   Accumulated other comprehensive loss   relating to revaluation of foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options designated as cash flow hedges, the majority of which is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months.     Schlumberger is also exposed to changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities, including certain of its long-term debt, which are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to hedge this exposure for certain currencies. The fair value of these contracts is recorded on the   Consolidated Balance Sheet   and the changes in the fair value are recognized in the   Consolidated Statement of Income   along with the change in fair value of the hedged item.     At December 31, 2013, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $7.6 billion in various foreign currencies, of which $3.8 billion relate to hedges of debt denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.     Interest Rate Risk     Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and, from time to time, interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates.     During the fourth quarter of 2013, Schlumberger entered into a cross currency swap for a notional amount of  0.5 billion in order to hedge changes in the fair value of Schlumberger s  0.5 billion 1.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2019.  Under the terms of this swap, Schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate of 1.50% on the euro notional amount and will pay interest at a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus approximately 64 basis points on the US dollar notional amount.    This cross currency swap is designated as a fair value hedge of the underlying debt.  This derivative instrument is marked to market with gains and losses recognized currently in income to largely offset the respective gains and losses recognized on changes in the fair value of the hedged debt.      At December 31, 2013, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating $10.5 billion and variable rate debt aggregating $2.7 billion, after taking into account the effect of the swap.       46  

The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments are summarized as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Fair Value of Derivatives   

Consolidated Balance Sheet   Classification   

Derivative assets   
      2013   

2012   

Derivative designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
   $   
   98   

$   
   26   

Other current assets   

Foreign exchange contracts   
       
   24   

22   

Other Assets   

Interest rate swaps   
     
   27   

Other Assets   

Interest rate swaps   

2   

Other current assets   

149   

50   

Derivative not designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
       
   10   

10   

Other current assets   

Foreign exchange contracts   
       
   4   

6   

Other Assets   

14   

16   

$   
   163   

$   
   66   

Derivative Liabilities   

Derivative designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
   $   
   14   

$   
   80   

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities   

Foreign exchange contracts   
       
   1   

19   

Other Liabilities   

15   

99   

Derivative not designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
       
   2   

3   

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities   

$   
   17   

$   
   102   

The fair value of all outstanding derivatives is determined using a model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived from or corroborated by observable data.     The effect of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and not designated as hedges on the   Consolidated Statement of Income   was as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income   

Consolidated Statement of     

2013   

2012   

2011   

Income   Classification   

Derivatives designated as fair value hedges:   

Interest rate swaps   
   $    
   15   

$   
   1   

$    
   9   

Interest expense   

Derivatives not designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
   $   
   (2   
   )     
        
   $   
   5   

$   
   (17   
   )   
       
   Cost of revenue   

Commodity contracts   

1   

(5   
   )   
       
   Cost of revenue   

$   
   (2   
   )     
        
   $   
   6   

$   
   (22   
   )   

47  

The effect of derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships on income and   Accumulated other comprehensive loss   (AOCL) was as follows:         

12.    Stockholders  Equity       Schlumberger is authorized to issue 4,500,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which 1,307,330,369 and 1,328,255,773 shares were outstanding on December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share of stock held. Schlumberger is also authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, which may be issued in series with terms and conditions determined by the Board of Directors. No shares of preferred stock have been issued.     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss   consists of the following:    
 
        Other comprehensive income was $1.334 billion in 2013.  Other comprehensive loss was $331 million and $789 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively.    48  

13.    Stock-based Compensation Plans       Schlumberger has three types of stock-based compensation programs: (i) stock options, (ii) a restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share unit program (collectively referred to as  restricted stock ) and (iii) a discounted stock purchase plan ( DSPP ).     Stock Options     Key employees are granted stock options under Schlumberger stock option plans. For all of the stock options granted, the exercise price equals the average of the high and low sales prices of Schlumberger stock on the date of grant; an option s maximum term is ten years, and options generally vest in increments over five years.     The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions and resulting weighted-average fair value per share:         
 
  The following table summarizes information concerning options outstanding and options exercisable as of December 31, 2013:         
 
  The weighted average remaining contractual life of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2013 was 4.8 years.     The following table summarizes stock option activity during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011:         
 
  The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2013 was $840 million.     49  

The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2013 was $463 million.     The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, was $176 million, $142 million and $246 million, respectively.     Restricted Stock     During 2013, Schlumberger began granting performance share units to certain executives.  The number of shares earned is determined at the end of each performance period, which is generally three years, based on Schlumberger s achievement of a predefined return on capital employed ( ROCE ), as defined in the underlying performance share unit agreement.  In the event the ROCE exceeds the predefined target, shares for up to the maximum of 250% of the target award may be granted.  In the event the ROCE falls below the predefined target, a reduced number of shares may be granted.  If the ROCE falls below the threshold award performance level, no shares will be granted.  As of December 31, 2013, performance share units of 0.5 million were outstanding based on the achievement of 100% of target.    All other restricted stock awards generally vest at the end of three years.     Restricted stock awards do not pay dividends or allow voting rights during the performance period.  Accordingly, the fair value of the restricted stock award is the quoted market price of Schlumberger s stock on the date of grant less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the vesting period.    The following table summarizes information about all restricted stock transactions:         
 
  Discounted Stock Purchase Plan     Under the terms of the DSPP, employees can choose to have a portion of their earnings withheld, subject to certain restrictions, to purchase Schlumberger common stock. The purchase price of the stock is 92.5% of the lower of the stock price at the beginning or end of the plan period at six-month intervals.     The fair value of the employees  purchase rights under the DSPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions and resulting weighted average fair value per share:         
 
  50  

Total Stock-based Compensation Expense     The following summarizes stock-based compensation expense recognized in income:         
 
  At December 31, 2013, there was $502 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock-based compensation arrangements of which $232 million is expected to be recognized in 2014, $161 million in 2015, $75 million in 2016, $28 million in 2017 and $6 million in 2018.     As of December 31, 2013, approximately 40 million shares were available for future grants under Schlumberger s stock-based compensation programs.       14.    Income Taxes       Schlumberger operates in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, where statutory tax rates generally vary from 0% to 40%.     Income from continuing operations before taxes   which were subject to United States and non-United States income taxes for each of the three years ended December 31, were as follows:         
 
  Schlumberger recorded net pretax credits of $420 million in 2013 ($53 million of charges in the US and $473 million of net credits outside of the US). Schlumberger recorded $161 million of pretax charges in 2012 ($52 million in the US and $109 million outside the US) and $223 million of pretax charges in 2011 ($104 million in the US and $119 million outside the US). These charges and credits are included in the table above and are more fully described in Note 3     Charges and Credits  .    The components of net deferred tax assets (liabilities) were as follows:         
 
  The above deferred tax balances at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were net of valuation allowances relating to net operating losses in certain countries of $238 million and $256 million, respectively.     51  

The components of   Taxes on income   were as follows:         
 
  A reconciliation of the United States statutory federal tax rate (35%) to the consolidated effective tax rate is:         
 
  Schlumberger conducts business in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are evolving. Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by the tax authorities. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits.     A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:         
 
  The amounts above exclude accrued interest and penalties of $253 million, $250 million and $225 million at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 respectively.     Schlumberger classifies interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions within   Taxes on income   in the   Consolidated Statement of Income  . During 2013, 2012 and 2011, Schlumberger recognized $30 million, $21 million and $15 million in interest and penalties, respectively.     52  

The following table summarizes the tax years that are either currently under audit or remain open and subject to examination by the tax authorities in the most significant jurisdictions in which Schlumberger operates:         
 
  In certain of the jurisdictions noted above, Schlumberger operates through more than one legal entity, each of which has different open years subject to examination. The table above presents the open years subject to examination for the most material of the legal entities in each jurisdiction. Additionally, it is important to note that tax years are technically not closed until the statute of limitations in each jurisdiction expires. In the jurisdictions noted above, the statute of limitations can extend beyond the open years subject to examination.        15.    Leases and Lease Commitments       Total rental expense was $1.9 billion in 2013, $1.9 billion in 2012, and $1.6 billion in 2011.     Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases for each of the next five years are as follows:         
 
        16.    Contingencies       In 2009, Schlumberger learned that United States officials began a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry, both related to certain historical Schlumberger operations in specified countries that are subject to United States trade and economic sanctions. Governmental agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties that they may seek to impose for violations of trade and economic sanction laws including, but not limited to, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices. In recent years, these agencies and authorities have obtained a wide range of penalties in settlements with companies arising from trade and economic sanction investigations, including in some cases fines and other penalties in the tens and hundreds of millions of dollars. Schlumberger is cooperating with the governmental authorities and cannot currently predict the outcome or estimate the possible impact of the ultimate resolution of these matters.     On April 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig   Deepwater Horizon  , owned by Transocean Ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of BP plc. Pursuant to a contract between M-I SWACO and BP, M-I SWACO provided certain services under the direction of BP. A number of legal actions, certain of which named an M-I SWACO entity as a defendant, were filed in connection with the   Deepwater Horizon   incident. Many of these claims were consolidated into multidistrict litigation in federal court (the  MDL ). During the first quarter of 2013, the federal court entered its order dismissing all claims against M-I SWACO that were consolidated as part of the MDL.     Schlumberger and its subsidiaries are party to various other legal proceedings from time to time. A liability is accrued when a loss is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. Management believes that the probability of a material loss is remote. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate disposition of these proceedings.        53  

17.    Segment Information       Schlumberger s segments are as follows:                      Reservoir Characterization Group     Consists of the principal technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon resources. These include WesternGeco, Wireline, Testing Services, Schlumberger Information Services and PetroTechnical Services.      
                   Drilling Group     Consists of the principal technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil and gas wells and comprises Bits   Advanced Technologies, M-I SWACO, Geoservices, Drilling   Measurements, Drilling Tools   Remedial Services and Integrated Project Management well construction projects.      
                   Production Group     Consists of the principal technologies involved in the lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes Well Services, Completions, Artificial Lift, Well Intervention, Water Services, Carbon Services and the Schlumberger Production Management field production projects.      
  The Groups are collectively referred to as  Oilfield Services.      Financial information for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, by segment, is as follows:         

54  

(1)              Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible and other nonoperating items. Corporate assets consist of cash, short-term investments, fixed income investments, held to maturity and investments in affiliates.      

(4)               See Note 3     Charges and Credits  .      
  Segment assets consist of receivables, inventories, fixed assets and multiclient seismic data.     Depreciation   Amortization includes multiclient seismic data costs.     Revenue   by geographic area     for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:         
 
  Revenue is based on the location where services are provided.     During each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue.     Schlumberger did not have revenue from third-party customers in its country of domicile during the last three years. Revenue in the United States in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $12.0 billion, $11.8 billion and $10.7 billion, respectively.     55  

Fixed Assets less accumulated depreciation   by geographic area are as follows:         
 
       (1)              Represents seismic vessels, including the related on-board equipment, which frequently transition between geographic areas.      
     18.    Pension and Other Benefit Plans       Pension Plans     Schlumberger sponsors several defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all US employees hired prior to October 1, 2004. The benefits are based on years of service and compensation, on a career-average pay basis.     In addition to the United States defined benefit pension plans, Schlumberger sponsors several other international defined benefit pension plans. The most significant of these international plans are the International Staff Pension Plan and the UK pension plan (collectively, the  International plans ). The International Staff Pension Plan covers certain international employees and is based on years of service and compensation on a career-average pay basis. The UK plan covers employees hired prior to April 1, 1999, and is based on years of service and compensation, on a final salary basis.     The weighted-average assumed discount rate, compensation increases and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net pension cost for the US and International plans were as follows:         
 
  Net pension cost for 2013, 2012 and 2011 included the following components:         
 
  The weighted-average assumed discount rate and compensation increases used to determine the projected benefit obligations for the US and International plans were as follows:         
 
  56  

The changes in the projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of the plans were as follows:         
 
  The unfunded liability represents the difference between the plan assets and the projected benefit obligation ( PBO ). The PBO represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation and includes an assumption about future compensation levels. The accumulated benefit obligation represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation, but does not include an assumption about future compensation levels.     The weighted-average allocation of plan assets and the target allocations by asset category are as follows:         
 
  Schlumberger s investment policy includes guidelines and procedures designed to ensure that assets are prudently invested in order to meet the future benefit obligation of the pension plans. The policy does not permit the direct investment of plan assets in any Schlumberger security. Schlumberger s investment horizon is long-term and, accordingly, the target asset allocations encompass a strategic, long-term perspective of capital markets, expected risk and return behavior, and perceived future economic conditions. The target asset allocations are reviewed periodically. Schlumberger may utilize certain derivative instruments, such as options, futures, swaps and forwards, within the plans to manage risks, as a substitute for physical securities or to obtain exposure to different markets.     57  

Asset performance is monitored frequently with an overall expectation that plan assets will meet or exceed the weighted index of its target asset allocation and component benchmark over rolling five-year periods.     The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions reflect the average rate of earnings expected on funds invested or to be invested. The assumptions have been determined based on expectations regarding future rates of return for the portfolio considering the asset allocation and related historical rates of return. The appropriateness of the assumptions is reviewed annually.     The fair value of Schlumberger s pension plan assets at December 31, 2013 and 2012, by asset category, is presented below and was determined based on valuation techniques categorized as follows:                    Level One: The use of quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.      
                 Level Two: The use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active or other inputs that are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data.      
                 Level Three: The use of significant unobservable inputs that typically require the use of management s estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing.      

58  

(a)              US equities include companies that are well diversified by industry sector and equity style (i.e., growth and value strategies). Active and passive management strategies are employed. Investments are primarily in large capitalization stocks and, to a lesser extent, mid- and small-cap stocks.      
       (b)              International equities are invested in companies that are traded on exchanges outside the US and are well diversified by industry sector, country and equity style. Active and passive strategies are employed. The vast majority of the investments are made in companies in developed markets with a small percentage in emerging markets.      
       (c)               Corporate bonds consist primarily of investment grade bonds from diversified industries.      
       (d)              Government and government-related debt securities are comprised primarily of inflation protected US treasuries and, to a lesser extent, other government-related securities.      
       (e)              Collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed-securities are debt obligations that represent claims to the cash flows from pools of mortgage loans which are purchased from banks, mortgage companies, and other originators and then assembled into pools by governmental, quasi-governmental and private entities.      
       (f)              Private equity includes investments in several fund of funds limited partnerships.      
       (g)              Real estate primarily includes investments in real estate limited partnerships, concentrated in commercial real estate.      
  Schlumberger s funding policy is to annually contribute amounts that are based upon a number of factors including the actuarial accrued liability, amounts that are deductible for income tax purposes, legal funding requirements and available cash flow. Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing approximately $500 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2014, subject to market and business conditions.     Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions     Schlumberger provides certain health care benefits to former US employees who have retired.     59  

The actuarial assumptions used to determine the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost for the US postretirement medical plan were as follows:         
 
  The net periodic benefit cost for the US postretirement medical plan included the following components:         
 
  The changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status were as follows:         
 
  The unfunded liability is included in   Postretirement Benefits   in the   Consolidated Balance Sheet  .     The assets of the US postretirement medical plan are invested 61% in equity securities and 39% debt securities at December 31, 2013. The fair value of these assets was primarily determined based on Level Two valuation techniques.    60  

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the US postretirement medical plan. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:         

(Stated in millions)   

One percentage point increase   

One percentage point decrease   

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
   $   
   47   

$   
   (33   
   )   

Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
   $   
   267   

$   
   (195   
   )   

Other Information     The expected benefits to be paid under the US and International pension plans as well as the postretirement medical plan (which is disclosed net of the annual Medicare Part D subsidy, which ranges from $4 million to $9 million per year) were as follows:         
 
  Included in   Accumulated other comprehensive loss   at December 31, 2013 are non-cash pretax charges which have not yet been recognized in net periodic benefit cost. The estimated portion of each component of   Accumulated other comprehensive loss   which is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost during the year ending December 31, 2014 is as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Pension Plans   

Postretirement Medical Plan   

Net actuarial losses   
   $   
   153   

$   
   2   

Prior service cost (credit)   
   $   
   133   

$   
   (4   
   )   

In addition to providing defined pension benefits and a postretirement medical plan, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries have other deferred benefit programs, primarily profit sharing and defined contribution pension plans. Expenses for these programs were $671 million, $620 million and $582 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.        19.  Supplementary Information     Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows:       
 
  Interest and other income   includes the following:       
 
  61  

Allowance for doubtful accounts   is as follows:       
 
     Accounts payable and accrued liabilities   are summarized as follows:       
 
        20.  Discontinued Operations     During the second quarter of 2013, Schlumberger completed the wind down of its operations in Iran and, therefore, has classified the historical results of this business as a discontinued operation.     During the second quarter of 2012, Schlumberger sold its Wilson distribution business to National Oilwell Varco Inc. ( NOV ) for $906 million in cash, resulting in a pretax gain of $137 million ($16 million after-tax). During the third quarter of 2012, Schlumberger completed the sale of its 56% interest in CE Franklin Ltd. to NOV for $122 million in cash, resulting in a pretax gain of $30 million ($12 million after-tax). As Wilson and CE Franklin comprised Schlumberger s entire Distribution segment, the results of this entire segment have been classified as discontinued operations in the   Consolidated Statement of Income  .     During the second quarter of 2011, Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its Global Connectivity Services business for $385 million in cash. An after-tax gain of $220 million was recognized in connection with this transaction, and is classified in   Income (loss) from discontinued operations   in the   Consolidated Statement of Income  . The historical results of this business were not significant to Schlumberger s consolidated financial statements and, as such, have not been reclassified to discontinued operations.     The following table summarizes the results of these discontinued operations:         
 
        62  

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     Schlumberger management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a 15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.     Schlumberger management assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth in 1992 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control Integrated Framework.   Based on this assessment Schlumberger s management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2013, its internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.     The effectiveness of Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.              63  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     To the Board of Directors and Stockholders     of Schlumberger Limited     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders  equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Schlumberger Limited and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 1992. The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.     A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.         

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

Houston, Texas   

January 31, 2014   

64  

Quarterly Results     (Unaudited)     The following table summarizes Schlumberger s results by quarter for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.         
 
       (1)              Gross margin equals   Revenue   less   Cost of revenue  .      
       (2)               Amounts may not add due to rounding.      

*      Mark of Schlumberger      
       Item 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.     None.          Item 9A.      Controls and Procedures.     Schlumberger has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of Schlumberger s management, including the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and the Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ), of the effectiveness of Schlumberger s  disclosure controls and procedures  (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and the CFO have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, Schlumberger s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that Schlumberger files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms. Schlumberger s disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to its management, including the CEO and the CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There has been no change in Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2013 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting.          Item 9B.      Other Information.     None.              65  

PART III          Item 10.      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger.     See  Item 1. Business   Executive Officers of Schlumberger  of this Report for Item 10 information regarding executive officers of Schlumberger. The information under the captions  Election of Directors,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Corporate Governance   Director Nominations  and  Corporate Governance   Board Committees   Audit Committee  in Schlumberger s 2014 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.     Schlumberger has a Code of Conduct that applies to all of its directors, officers and employees, including its principal executive, financial and accounting officers, or persons performing similar functions. Schlumberger s Code of Conduct is posted on its website at http://www.slb.com/about/codeofconduct.aspx. Schlumberger intends to disclose future amendments to the Code of Conduct and any grant of a waiver from a provision of the Code of Conduct requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules at http://www.slb.com/about/codeofconduct.aspx.          Item 11.      Executive Compensation.     The information set forth under the captions  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation Tables and Accompanying Narrative,   Compensation Committee Report  and  Director Compensation in Fiscal Year 2013  in Schlumberger s 2014 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.          Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.     The information under the captions  Stock Ownership Information Security Ownership by Certain Beneficial Owners,   Stock Ownership Information Security Ownership by Management  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in Schlumberger s 2014 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.          Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.     The information under the captions  Corporate Governance Board Independence  and  Corporate Governance Policies and Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions  in Schlumberger s 2014 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.          Item 14.      Principal Accounting Fees and Services.     The information under the caption  Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in Schlumberger s 2014 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.          66  

PART IV          Item 15.      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.         (a)      The following documents are filed as part of this Report:      

Financial statements of companies accounted for under the equity method and unconsolidated subsidiaries have been omitted because they do not meet the materiality tests for assets or income.         

(2)   
   Financial Statement Schedules not required   

(3)   
   Exhibits: the exhibits listed in the accompanying  Index to Exhibits  are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this Form 10-K.   

67  

SIGNATURES     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

Date:   
   January 31, 2014   
       
   S  CHLUMBERGER   L  IMITED   

By:   
   /  S  / H  OWARD   G  UILD   

Howard Guild   

Chief Accounting Officer   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.         

Name   
        
   Title   

*   
        
   Director and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)   

Paal Kibsgaard   

/  S  / S  IMON   A  YAT   
        
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)   

Simon Ayat   

/  S  / H  OWARD   G  UILD   
        
   Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)   

Howard Guild   

*   
        
   Director   

Peter L.S. Currie   

*   
        
   Chairman   

Tony Isaac   

*   
        
   Director   

K.V. Kamath   

*   
        
   Director   

Nikolay Kudryavtsev   

*   
        
   Director   

Adrian Lajous   

*   
        
   Director   

Michael E. Marks   

*   
        
   Director   

Lubna S. Olayan   

*   
        
   Director   

Leo Rafael Reif   

*   
        
   Director   

Tore Sandvold   

*   
        
   Director   

Henri Seydoux   

/s/ A  LEXANDER   C. J  UDEN   
        
   January 31, 2014   

*By Alexander C. Juden Attorney-in-Fact   

68  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS         
 
  69  

70  

Exhibit   

Form of Option Agreement, Uncapped Non-Qualified Stock Option (for 2001, 2005 and 2008 stock plans) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Schlumberger s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009) (+)   
        
   10.31   

Form of Smith International, Inc. 2010 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Schlumberger s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010) (+)   
        
   10.32   

Employment Agreement dated March 9, 2010 and effective as of February 9, 2010, between Schlumberger Limited and Chakib Sbiti (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Schlumberger s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010) (+)   
        
   10.33   

Employment Agreement dated June 11, 2013 and effective as of July 1, 2013, between Schlumberger Limited and Satish Pai (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Schlumberger s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013) (+)   
        
   10.34   

Employment Agreement dated February 19, 2013 and effective as of March 1, 2013, between Schlumberger Limited and Kjell-Erik Oestdahl (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Schlumberger s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013) (+)   
        
   10.35   

Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Schlumberger s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 21, 2013)   
        
   10.36   

Subsidiaries (*)   
        
   21   

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (*)   
        
   23   

Powers of Attorney (*)   
        
   24   

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
        
   31.1   

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
        
   31.2   

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
        
   32.1   

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
        
   32.2   

Mine Safety Disclosure (*)   
        
   95   

The following materials from Schlumberger Limited s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iv) Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, (v) Consolidated Statement of Equity and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (*)   
        
   101   

(*) Exhibits electronically filed with this Form 10-K. All other exhibits incorporated by reference.   

(+) Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.   

71   

<EX-21>
 2
 slb-ex21_201312316.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21     Significant Subsidiaries     Listed below are the significant subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December 31, 2013, and the states or jurisdictions in which they are incorporated or organized. The indentation reflects the principal parenting of each subsidiary. The names of other subsidiaries have been omitted from the list below, since they would not constitute, in the aggregate, a significant subsidiary as of December 31, 2013.         

Schlumberger Antilles N.V., Curacao   

Schlumberger B.V., Netherlands   

Schlumberger Canada Limited, Canada   

Schlumberger SA, France   

Services Petroliers Schlumberger, France   

Schlumberger Norge AS, Norway   

Schlumberger Holdings Corporation, Delaware   

Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Texas   

Smith International Inc, Delaware   

Schlumberger UK Limited, UK   

M-I Holdings (UK) Limited, UK   

Schlumberger Plc, UK   

Schlumberger Oilfield UK Plc, UK   

M-I Holdings BV, Netherlands   

Schlumberger Oilfield Holdings Limited, BVI   

Schlumberger Holdings Limited, BVI   

Dowell Schlumberger Corporation, BVI   

Schlumberger Logelco, Inc., Panama   

Schlumberger Middle East SA., Panama   

Schlumberger Offshore Services Limited, BVI   

Schlumberger Overseas, SA, Panama   

Schlumberger Seaco, Inc., Panama   

Schlumberger Surenco, SA, Panama   

WesternGeco Seismic Holdings Limited, BVI   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 slb-ex23_201312317.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit 23       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-104225; 333-115277; 333-124534; 333-151920; 333-173055, as amended by post-effective amendment on Form S-8; 333-188589; and 333-188590)  ; on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-190822 and 333-173368 ); and on Form S-4 (Nos. 333-97899 and 333-166326, as amended by post-effective amendment on Form S-8) of Schlumberger Limited of our report dated January 31, 2014 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.        

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

Houston, Texas   

January 31, 2014   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 4
 slb-ex24_201312318.htm
 EX-24

Exhibit 24     Powers of Attorney     Each of the undersigned, in the capacity or capacities set forth below his or her signature as a member of the Board of Directors and/or an officer of Schlumberger Limited, a Cura ao corporation ( the Corporation ), hereby appoints Simon Ayat, Howard Guild and Alexander C. Juden, or either of them, the attorney or attorneys of the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation, for and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned to execute and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, and any amendment or amendments to any such Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any agreements, consents or waivers relative thereto, and to take any and all such other action for and in the name and place and stead of the undersigned as may be necessary or desirable in order to comply with the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder.            

/s/ Peter L.S. Currie   
        
   /s/ Michael E. Marks   

Peter L.S. Currie    Director   
        
   Michael E. Marks    Director   

/s/ Tony Isaac   
        
   /s/ Lubna S. Olayan   

Tony Isaac    Chairman of the Board   
        
   Lubna S. Olayan    Director   

/s/ K.Vaman Kamath   
        
   /s/ Leo Rafael Reif   

K.Vaman Kamath    Director   
        
   Leo Rafael Reif    Director   

/s/ Paal Kibsgaard   
        
   /s/ Tore Sandvold   

Paal Kibsgaard    Director and Chief Executive Officer   
        
   Tore Sandvold    Director   

/s/ Nikolay Kudryavtsev   
        
   /s/ Henri Seydoux   

Nikolay Kudryavtsev    Director   
        
   Henri Seydoux    Director   

/s/ Adrian Lajous   

Adrian Lajous    Director   

Date: January 16, 2014                   

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 5
 slb-ex31_201312319.htm
 EX-31.1

Exhibit 31.1     CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER     I, Paal Kibsgaard, certify that:     1.   I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger Limited;     2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;     4.   The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         a)      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      
      b)      Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      
      c)      Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      
      d)      Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      
  5.   The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         a)      All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      
      b)      Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      

Date: January 31, 2014   
   /s/ Paal Kibsgaard   

Paal Kibsgaard   

Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31>

<EX-31>
 6
 slb-ex31_2013123110.htm
 EX-31.2

Exhibit 31.2     CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER     I, Simon Ayat, certify that:     1.   I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger Limited;     2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;     3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;     4.   The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         a)      Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      
      b)      Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      
      c)       Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      
      d)       Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      
  5.   The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         a)       All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      
      b)       Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      

Date: January 31, 2014   
   /s/ Simon Ayat   

Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 7
 slb-ex32_2013123111.htm
 EX-32.1

Exhibit 32.1     CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER     PURSUANT TO     18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350     AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO     SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2013 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Paal Kibsgaard, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:         (1)      The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and      
      (2)      The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.      

Date: January 31, 2014   
   /s/ Paal Kibsgaard   

Paal Kibsgaard   

Chief Executive Officer   

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.     This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.    

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 8
 slb-ex32_2013123112.htm
 EX-32.2

Exhibit 32.2     CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER     PURSUANT TO     18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350     AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO     SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2013 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Simon Ayat, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:         (1)      The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and      
      (2)      The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.      

Date: January 31, 2014   
   /s/ Simon Ayat   

Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.     This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.    

</EX-32>

<EX-95>
 9
 slb-ex95_2013123113.htm
 EX-95

Exhibit 95     Mine Safety Disclosure       The following disclosure is provided pursuant to Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires certain disclosures by companies required to file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that operate mines regulated under the Federal Mine   Safety and Health Act of 1977.           The table that follows reflects citations, orders, violations and proposed assessments issued by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (the  MSHA ) to M-I LLC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger.  The disclosure is with respect to the full year ended December 31, 2013.  Due to timing and other factors, the data may not agree with the mine data retrieval system maintained by the MSHA at www.MSHA.gov.    Full Year 2013         
 
        (1)  Amounts included are the total dollar value of proposed assessments received from MSHA on or before December 31, 2013, regardless of whether the assessment has been challenged or appealed, for citations and orders occurring during the full year 2013.  Citations and orders can be contested and appealed, and as part of that process, are sometimes reduced in severity and amount, and sometimes dismissed.  The number of citations, orders, and proposed assessments vary by inspector and also vary depending on the size and type of the operation.       * As of December 31, 2013, MSHA had not yet proposed assessments for some citations relating to this entry, as follows: 14 Section 104(a) citations at Battle Mountain Grinding Plant and seven Section 104(a) citations at Greystone Mine.       

</EX-95>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 slb-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 slb-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 slb-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 slb-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 slb-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 slb-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

