<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080303_10-K_edgar_data_1075531_0001104659-08-014464_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3653356</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>625982</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>47542</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2178565</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>72</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-08-014464.hdr.sgml : 20080303
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080303070244
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-08-014464
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080303
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080303

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PRICELINE COM INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001075531
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				061528493
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25581
		FILM NUMBER:		08657823

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 CONNECTICUT AVE
		CITY:			NORWALK
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06854
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2037053000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FFyXRfmdM+Fyt02G8mu/UQkGNW5M2ydLXUJQ6JxE6HGlZaHbOWKD0OeTjGL+eXux
 sHKql78uF9mn4t/aoMKQSQ==

 0001104659-08-014464.txt : 20080303

10-K
 1
 a08-2574_110k.htm
 10-K

UNITED
STATES   

   SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)   

   OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the fiscal year ended: December 31, 2007   

Commission File No.: 0-25581   

priceline.com
Incorporated   

  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   
    (State or other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)  

06-1528493   
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

800 Connecticut Avenue   
     Norwalk, Connecticut   
    (Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

06854   
    (Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (203) 299-8000   

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class:   

Name of Each Exchange on which Registered:   

Common Stock,
  par value $0.008 per share  

The NASDAQ Stock
  Market LLC  

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None.  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes   x     No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. 
Yes   o   No   x  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes   x      No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.      o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of  large
accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act (Check one):  

Large accelerated filer   x  

Accelerated filer   o  

Non-accelerated filer   o  

Smaller reporting company   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes  
  o      No     x  

The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of
priceline.com as of June 30, 2007 was approximately $1.9 million based
upon the closing price reported for such date on the Nasdaq National
Market.  For purposes of this disclosure,
shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors of
priceline.com on June 30, 2007 have been excluded because such persons may
be deemed to be affiliates of priceline.com. 
This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive
determination for other purposes.  

The
number of outstanding shares of priceline.com s common stock was 38,472,411 as
of February 15, 2008  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

The
information required by Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
to the extent not set forth in this Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by
reference from priceline.com s definitive proxy statement relating to the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held on June 4, 2008, to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of
priceline.com s fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.  

priceline.com
Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31,
2007 Index  

PART I   

Page No.  

Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements   

1  

Item 1.   

Business   

1  

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

15  

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff
  Comments   

31  

Item 2.   

Properties   

31  

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   

31  

Item 4.   

Submission of
  Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

41  

PART II   

Item 5.   

Market for
  Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
  of Equity Securities   

42  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

45  

Item 7.   

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

46  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

71  

Item 8.   

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data   

72  

Item 9.   

Changes in and
  Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

72  

Item 9A.   

Controls and
  Procedures   

72  

Item 9B.   

Other Information   

73  

PART III   

Item 10.   

Directors,
  Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

74  

Item 11.   

Executive
  Compensation   

74  

Item 12.   

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters   

74  

Item 13.   

Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

74  

Item 14.   

Principal
  Accountant Fees and Services   

74  

PART IV   

Item 15.   

Exhibits and
  Financial Statement Schedules   

75  

Signatures   

79  

Consolidated Financial Statements   

81  

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements      

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents
incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks,
uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including the Risk
Factors identified in Item 1A of this Annual Report; therefore, actual results
may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such
forward-looking statements.   

Expressions
of future goals, expectations and similar expressions including, without
limitation,  may,   will,   should,   could,   expects,   does not currently
expect,   plans,   anticipates,   intends,   believes,   estimates,   predicts, 
 potential,   targets,  or  continue,  reflecting something other than
historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual
results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking
statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully
described in Item 1A,  Risk Factors.  
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and
documents we file or furnish from time to time with the SEC, particularly our
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.  

PART I     

Item 1.  Business      

General   

We
are a leading online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of
travel services, including airline tickets, hotel rooms, car rentals, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. 
In the United States, we offer our customers a unique choice: the
ability to purchase travel services in a traditional, price-disclosed manner or
the opportunity to use our unique  Name Your
Own Price       service, which allows our customers to make
offers for travel services at discounted prices.  Internationally, we offer our customers hotel
room reservations in over 60 countries and 22 languages.  

We launched our business in
the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded
our operations to include, among others, the brands Booking.com and Active
Hotels in Europe and Agoda in Asia.  Our
goal is to be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service and be the
top online discount travel agent in the United States.  At present, we derive substantially all of
our revenues from the following sources:  

Transaction
revenues from our  Name Your Own Price       airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
services, as well as our vacation packages service;  

Commissions
earned from the sale of price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental cars, cruises and
other travel services;  

Customer
processing fees charged in connection with the sale of both  Name Your Own Price       and price-disclosed airline tickets, hotel
rooms and rental cars services. 
Priceline eliminated processing fees for its price-disclosed airline
ticket service in June 2007;  

Transaction
revenue from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room service;  

Global
distribution system ( GDS ) reservation booking fees related to both our  Name Your Own Price       airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and  

Other revenues
derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.  

1  

For
the year ended December 31, 2007, we had revenues of approximately $1.4
billion comprised of  merchant  revenue,  agency  revenue and  other 
revenue.  Merchant revenues are derived
from transactions where we are the merchant of record and are responsible for,
among other things, collecting receipts from our customers and remitting
payments to our suppliers.  Merchant
revenues, which represented the substantial majority of our total revenues in
2007, consisted of: (1)   transaction revenues representing the selling
price of  Name Your Own Price       airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars and
price-disclosed vacation packages services; (2) transaction revenues
representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by
suppliers in connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in
connection with the sale of  Name Your Own
Price       airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars
and merchant price-disclosed hotels services; and (4) ancillary fees,
including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the transactions
described above  .  Agency
revenues are generally derived from retail travel related transactions where we
are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services are
determined by third parties. Agency revenues consisted primarily of: (1) travel
commissions; (2) customer processing fees; and (3) GDS reservation
booking fees related to certain of the aforementioned transactions.    Other revenues consisted
primarily of revenue from advertising on our websites.  

Priceline.com
was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted
into a Delaware corporation in July 1998. 
Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the
symbol  PCLN.   Our principal executive
offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.  

The priceline.com Business
Model   

We
offer customers the ability   to make hotel reservations on a worldwide
basis primarily under the Booking.com and Agoda brands internationally and
primarily under the priceline.com brand in the United States.  In the United States, we also offer customers
the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets,
rental car days, vacations packages, destination services and cruises, through
both a traditional, price-disclosed  retail  manner, and through our
proprietary demand-collection system known as    Name Your
Own Price      .  These services are made available over the
Internet through websites that we own or control, and are provided by major
travel suppliers, including more than 60,000 hotel properties worldwide.  We believe that the combination of our retail
price-disclosed   model and our  Name
Your Own Price       model allows us to provide a
broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with
diverse streams of revenue.  

International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Services   .  We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel
service in Europe and Asia through our international operations, which we have
developed through recent acquisitions. 
In September 2004, we acquired Booking.com Limited, a Cambridge,
England-based Internet hotel reservation distributor, and in July 2005, we
acquired Amsterdam-based Booking.com
B.V., one of continental Europe s leading Internet hotel reservation services,
with offices primarily in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Berlin, Loule, Paris, Rome and
Vienna.  All of our European operations,
including Booking.com Limited and Booking.com B.V., are majority-owned by
us.  In November 2007, we acquired Agoda
Company, Ltd. ( Agoda ) and AGIP LLC ( AGIP,  and together with Agoda, the  Agoda
Companies ), an Internet hotel
distributor with operations in Singapore and Thailand.  We work with over 60,000 chain-owned and
independently owned hotels offering hotel reservations on various websites and
in multiple languages.  For geographic related information, see
Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Our
international business   the significant majority of which is currently
generated by our European operations   represented approximately 55% of our
gross bookings in the year ended December 31, 2007, and contributed more
than two-thirds of our consolidated operating income during that period.  We expect that throughout 2008 and beyond,
our international operations will represent a growing percentage of our total
gross bookings and operating income.  

2  

United States: Retail Travel Services   .  In the United States, we offer customers the
ability to purchase price-disclosed hotel rooms, airline tickets, rental car
days, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail
prices.  In these transactions, the
customer typically selects airline flights, hotel reservations, rental car or
other travel itineraries from an array of results produced in response to the
customer s request.  These results
include the identity of the travel supplier, the exact price   of the
itinerary, and other details relating to the itineraries.  In some circumstances, the customer pays us
at the time of reservation, and in other circumstances, the customer pays the
travel supplier directly at the time of travel.  

United States: Name Your Own Price        Travel Services .  We have developed a unique pricing system
known as a  demand collection system  that uses the information sharing and
communications power of the Internet to create a different way of pricing
services.  We believe our services have
created a balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to accept
trade-offs in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to generate
incremental revenue by selling their services at below retail prices, provided
that they can do so without disrupting their existing distribution channels or
retail pricing structures.  Our demand
collection system allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to
pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which
participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to
the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer s offer and decide
whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the
consumer.  For most of these
transactions, we have discretion in supplier selection and are the merchant of
record in the transaction.  Consumers
agree to hold their offers open for a specified period of time (generally, not
longer than one minute) to enable us to determine whether we can or want to accept
the offer.  Once fulfilled, offers generally
cannot be canceled   thereby making such purchases generally
non-refundable.  This system uses the
flexibility of buyers to enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to
sell their excess capacity.  We believe
that our demand collection system addresses limitations inherent in traditional
seller-driven pricing mechanisms in a manner that offers substantial benefits
to both buyers and sellers.  We believe
that the principal advantages of our system include the following:  

Cost
Savings   .  Our  Name Your Own Price       demand
collection system allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling
way.  Buyers effectively trade off
flexibility about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices
that are lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional
retail distribution channels.  

Incremental
Revenue for Sellers   .  Sellers use
our  Name Your Own Price         demand collection system as
a revenue management tool to generate incremental revenue without disrupting
their existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We require consumers to be flexible with
respect to brands and service features. 
As a result, our  Name Your Own Price       system does not reveal sellers  brands to
customers prior to the consummation of a transaction, thereby protecting their
brand integrity.  This shielding of brand
identity and price enables sellers to sell services at discounted prices
without cannibalizing their own retail sales by publicly announcing discount
prices and without competing against their own distributors.  

Proprietary
Seller Networks   .  We have
assembled proprietary networks of industry leading sellers that represent high
quality brands.  By establishing
attractive networks of seller participants with reputations for quality, scale
and national presence, we believe that we foster increased participation by
both buyers and sellers.  

We
often refer to services offered through our  Name
Your Own Price       service as  opaque  services
because all aspects of the travel service are not visible to the consumer
before making an offer.  

3  

The priceline.com Strategy   

The
online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth
as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive
online channels.  Priceline.com has been
a leader in the deep discount segment of this market in the United States and
in the hotel reservation market internationally.  Our strategy is to continue to participate
broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.  

Become the
Leading Worldwide Online Hotel Reservation Service   .  The size of the travel market outside of the
United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet adoption rates and
e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the
United States.  However, international consumers
are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online
travel growth rates have substantially exceeded and are expected to continue to
exceed the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our
revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2007, o  ur international
business   the significant majority of which is currently generated by our
European operations   represented approximately 55% of our gross bookings, and
contributed more than two-thirds of our consolidated operating income during
that period.  We expect that throughout
2008 and beyond, our international operations will represent a growing
percentage of our total gross bookings and operating income.    Because of what we believe
to be superior growth rate opportunities associated with international online
travel, we intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our
revenues represented by international consumers and capitalize on international
travel demand.  

We
believe that the positioning of our Booking.com hotel reservation service gives
us a foothold into a broader international market.  We intend to use the Agoda Companies, our
recently acquired online hotel distributor with operations in Singapore and
Thailand, to further develop our operations throughout Asia, where Internet
penetration is growing at a substantially greater pace than in the United
States over the last several years.  We
have begun, and intend to continue, development of the means to share hotel
availability among our brands, which we believe will allow us to monetize
demand across international markets.  In
addition, from time to time we explore strategic transactions and acquisitions
that, among other things, allow us to provide our services to new markets.  We believe that by promoting our brands
worldwide, sharing hotel supply and customer flow and applying our industry
experiences in the United States and Europe to other international regions, we
can further expand our service internationally and become the leading worldwide
online hotel reservation service.  

Continue to
be One of the Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious
Leisure Travelers   .  Our  Name Your Own Price       demand collection system in the United States
allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility
about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices that are
lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail
distribution channels.  We have expended
significant resources to allow us to introduce price-disclosed retail services
in the United States to our consumers to compliment the  Name Your Own Price       service. 
We believe that by offering a  one-stop-shopping  solution to our
customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are
prepared to accept the unique restrictions of our  Name Your Own Price       service in exchange for receiving significant
savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less
price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their
travel itinerary prior to purchasing.  In
June 2007, we eliminated booking fees on price-disclosed retail airline
tickets as part of our strategy to provide value to our customers.  

4  

We
intend to enhance our service offerings continually, particularly our retail
offerings, by adding competitive functionality, adding competitive content at
competitive pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our website
as well as cross-sell opportunities to maximize customer conversion.  

Competitive
functionality:    We continue to expend significant resources to
remain competitive in terms of the features and functionality we offer our
customers.  For example, since launching
our domestic retail air service, we added the ability to search for flexible
dates or alternative airports, book one-way and multi-destination itineraries
and easily make modifications to search criteria.  We intend to add additional functionality
such as the ability to search child and senior fares and to access real time
seat maps.  

Competitive
selection and pricing:    We believe that having a wide selection of
travel options at competitive pricing is critical to our success.  For example, in June of 2007, we
eliminated booking fees on price-disclosed retail airline tickets, added
JetBlue fares to both our retail price-disclosed and  Name Your Own Price           airline ticket services and
added over 10,000 additional hotels to our domestic vacation package service.
In addition, we have renewed or entered into new agreements with several of our
major airline and hotel suppliers, which we believe improved our access to a
better selection of travel alternatives and pricing.  

Content
and merchandising:    As part of our evolution to a  one-stop-shopping 
website, we have added thousands of pages of content to allow customers to
research destinations and hotel properties before booking a reservation.  We offer property descriptions, maps, images,
and user reviews whereby our customers can benefit from the experiences and
opinions of other customers.  In the
United States, we introduced  PriceBreakers sm ,  which is a
presentation of selected travel itineraries at discounted prices that is
updated daily.  We intend to continue to
improve our content and merchandising with more comprehensive descriptions,
more and higher quality images, and more user reviews, which we believe will
improve conversion of users shopping on our website.  

Cross-sell
opportunities   : We also cross-sell different travel components to
maximize the revenue we generate from each customer in the United States.  We have developed and implemented
functionality that allows customers to  add-on  travel components to their
selection, both during the shopping experience and at time of purchase.  For example, customers can add a rental car
reservation to their air or hotel reservation, or a hotel reservation to their
air reservation.  Customers can also add
destination related services such as shuttles, tours and activities.  Additionally, we cross-sell opaque services
on our retail path and retail services on our opaque path.  For example, an unsuccessful opaque air
customer may be offered a price-disclosed alternative, while a retail hotel shopper
may be offered the  Name Your Own Price           alternative for greater
savings.  We intend to further enhance
these cross-sell opportunities across all of our services.  

We
strive to be the preferred discount distribution channel in the United States
for airlines, hotels and rental car companies. 
Our  Name Your Own Price       service protects supplier brand and published
pricing and our packages and other merchandising provide access to the brand
neutral leisure traveler at attractive distribution costs.  

5  

Service Offerings   International   

Retail Hotels.       We offer a retail,
price-disclosed hotel service in Europe and Asia, primarily through our
Booking.com and Agoda brands.  We operate
our international operations through   Booking.com Limited and
Booking.com B.V. in Europe and the Agoda Companies in Asia.  Through these operations, we work with over 60,000 chain-owned and
independently owned hotels offering hotel reservations on various websites and
in multiple languages.  

Service Offerings   United States   

Name Your Own Price             Hotels   .  Through our  Name
Your Own Price           hotel room reservation
service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially
all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as
well as several important real estate investment trusts and independent
property owners participate in our  Name Your
Own Price       service. 
Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with
related rules in a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not
available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount
distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may make
similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under
other arrangements.  

To
make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in
which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to check in and check out, (3) the  class  of service (1, 2, 3, 4,
5-star or  resort ), (3) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (4) the
customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to
stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation
that cannot be refunded or changed.  The
target market for our  Name Your Own Price       hotel room reservation service is the leisure
travel market.  

Retail Hotels.     We also operate a price-disclosed hotel service
in the United States that enables our customers to   select the exact hotel they
want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.  

Name Your Own Price             Airline
Tickets   .  There are a total of 13
domestic airlines and 26 international airlines participating in our  Name Your Own Price           airline ticket service.  

Our
 Name Your Own Price       airline ticket service operates in a manner
similar to our  Name Your Own Price       hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the
origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (4) the customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree
to:  

fly on any one of our
participating airline partners;  

leave at any time of day
between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of departure and
return;  

purchase only round trip
coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and return;  

accept at least one stop or
connection;  

receive no frequent flier
miles or upgrades; and  

accept tickets that cannot
be refunded or changed.  

6  

If
a customer s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably
close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy
the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing
certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being
accepted.  For example, in some cases we
disclose to the customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would
increase the chances of his or her offer being accepted.  In other cases, we inform the customer that
increasing his or her offer by a certain amount would increase the chances of
it being accepted.  We may also offer a
customer the opportunity to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.  

Retail Airline Tickets.     We also offer   our customers in the United
States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and
with disclosed itineraries.  The airline
sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for
the transaction.  These airline tickets
do not have the restrictions associated with our    Name Your
Own Price       service. 
For example, in addition to having fully disclosed itineraries, retail
airline tickets are generally changeable and cancellable for a fee.  In June 2007, we eliminated booking fees
we had previously charged on the sale of retail airline tickets.  

Name Your Own Price             Rental Cars   .  Our  Name
Your Own Price       rental car service operates in a
manner similar to our hotel reservation and airline ticket services.  Our rental car services are currently available
in substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car
companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car
program.  Consumers can access our
website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car
they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price
they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine whether
to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer s offer is accepted, we will
immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer s credit card and
notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental
car.  

Retail Rental Cars.     We also offer a price-disclosed rental car
service   on www.priceline.com that enables our customers   in the United
States   to choose between price-disclosed or  Name
Your Own Price       rental cars.  Our price-disclosed rental car service
operates under the agency model,   under which we earn a
commission upon rental car return, and   accommodates one-way and
off-airport reservations  .    As with our
retail airline ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations
booked in a retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with   our    Name
Your Own Price       service. 
Customers can select the exact car they want to book and the price of
the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.  

With
respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the
combination of our  Name Your Own Price         model and the retail model
allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers,
while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.  

Vacation Packages   .  Our vacation package service allows consumers
  in the United States   to purchase packages consisting of airfare,
hotel and rental car components. 
Consumers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to
reserve, and then, in most cases, select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque
airline ticket for the air component of their package.  Additionally, consumers can add destination
related services such as tours, shuttles, and activities.  Vacation packages are sold at disclosed
prices, although consumers cannot determine the exact price of the individual
components.  

Destination Services   .  We currently offer customers   in the United
States   the opportunity to purchase destination services such as event tickets,
ground transfers, tours, restaurant meals and other services available at their
travel destinations.  This service is
offered to consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel and
vacation reservation, and also as a standalone service.  In certain locations, we also offer parking
and expanded ground transfer options.  

7  

Cruises   .  We
also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through National Leisure Group, Inc.
( NLG ), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumers   in the United
States   to search for and compare cruise pricing and availability information
from 17 cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center
by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from NLG on successful
cruise bookings.  

Travel Insurance   .  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package
customers   in the United States   an optional travel insurance package that
provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip
interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage,
property and travel documents.  The
travel insurance is provided by member companies of American International
Group, Inc. ( AIG ).  We receive a
percentage of the premium from AIG member companies for every optional insurance
package purchased by our customers.  

While
we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we
may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance
the travel experience of our customers.  

Financial Services    

We
offer financial services through Priceline Mortgage Company LLC, d/b/a
pricelinemortgage.com, of which we own 49% and hold two of five seats on the
board of managers.  Pursuant to an intellectual property license from us,
pricelinemortgage.com utilizes the priceline.com  Name Your Own Price       business model.  Pricelinemortgage.com is controlled by
EverBank, a federally chartered savings association supervised by the Office of
Thrift Supervision, and a wholly owned subsidiary of EverBank Financial Corp. 
Pricelinemortgage.com has access to the management resources and expertise of
EverBank, one of the nation s largest privately held banking and mortgage
firms. EverBank Financial Corp. provides management services to
pricelinemortgage.com, including the procurement of personnel and office space
and assistance in obtaining regulatory approvals.  Pricelinemortgage.com
is operating in all 50 states.  Robert J. Mylod, our Chief Financial
Officer, is a director of, and an investor in, EverBank Financial Corp., the
parent company of EverBank.  Mr. Mylod s investment represents less
than 1/10 of one percent of EverBank Financial Corp. s outstanding common
stock.  

Under
the terms of an agreement with EverBank Financial Corp., pricelinemortgage.com
allows consumers to access attractive financial services including, but not
limited to, mortgages, home equity loans, and banking service.  We record our proportionate share of the
results of pricelinemortgage.com as equity in income (loss) of investees and
minority interests.  

Marketing and Brand
Awareness   

Priceline.com
and Booking.com have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands
through aggressive marketing and promotion campaigns.  During 2007, our total online and offline
advertising expenses were approximately $172.7 million and $36.0 million,
respectively, a substantial portion of which was spent internationally.  We intend to continue a marketing strategy to
promote brand awareness and the concept that consumers can save money using our
services.  Underlying our marketing
strategy is our belief that our target market is all consumers, not just
Internet-savvy consumers.  We intend to
continue to promote the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands
aggressively throughout 2008.  

As
our international operations become more meaningful contributors to our
results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our
advertising expense.  Specifically,
because our international operations utilize online affiliate marketing and
Internet search engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related
keywords, as principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our   

8  

online
advertising expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of those
companies, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2008.  

In
addition, we generate advertising revenue by selling advertising to travel
suppliers and others on our owned websites in the United States.   

Competition   

We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we
offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and
current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In
addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete have
significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Travelport, Sabre or Expedia, each of which
have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.  

We currently or potentially
compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With
respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited
to:  

Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are
owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre
Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are
currently owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui
Travel, and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, Venere, hotel.de, Hotel
Reservation Service and Wotif;  

travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car
companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive
business;  

large online portal and search companies, such as AOL (including AOL
Travel), Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel) and Google;  

traditional travel agencies;  

online travel search sites such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com
and Kayak.com s recent acquisition, SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as
 meta-search ) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such
as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and  

operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo,
Worldspan, L.P., Amadeus and Sabre.  

Many airline, hotel and
rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are
focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book
airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, several low cost airlines, which
are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute their tickets
exclusively through their own websites. 
Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a
processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.  

We potentially face
competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have
expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic,
including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us
either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or
off-line companies.  We also compete with
 meta-search  companies, which are companies that leverage their search
technology to aggregate travel search results   

9  

across supplier, travel agent and other
websites.  For example, Yahoo! owns
FareChase.com, a travel search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates
at travel supplier and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites,
and AOL is party to a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority
interest in, Kayak.com, another leading meta-search company.  Other established search engine companies as
well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this
manner.  If Yahoo!, Google or other
portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could
result in more competition from supplier websites and higher customer
acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours. In addition, because we
advertise on certain meta-search sites, a loss of business for competitive
reasons could result.  Competition from
these and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:  

marketing and promotional campaigns;  

attracting traffic to their websites;  

attracting and retaining key employees;  

securing vendors and supply; and  

website and systems development.  

Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss
of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. See   Risk Factors   Intense competition could reduce our market share and
harm our financial performance .   

Operations and Technology   

Our business is supported by
a systems platform, which was designed with an emphasis on scalability,
performance and reliability.  The
software platform and architecture are built on server-side Java, C++, ASP,  
Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle   MYSQL relational
database systems.  This internal platform
was designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide
connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as
airline and hotel room reservation systems and financial service providers, as
well as individual suppliers, such as individual hotels.  Our Internet servers utilize digital certificates
to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.  

The
systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our international
operations are primarily hosted at Equinix Europe Ltd., in London, England, and
Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus, in the Netherlands. Each
location has backup generators and infrastructure typical of hosted data
centers.  

Our
systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are hosted at
SAVVIS in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication links, as well
as 24-hour monitoring and engineering support. 
SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple back-up systems in Jersey
City.  We also maintain a second web
hosting facility at AT T in New York City. 
Our network operations center monitors both web hosting facilities and
is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters.  All three facilities have an uninterruptible
power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS  

10  

were
unable, for any reason, to support our primary web hosting facility, we would
need to activate our secondary site at AT T.  

We
out-source most of our domestic call center and customer service functions, and
use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer capabilities to
our call centers and customer service centers.  

Intellectual Property   

We
currently hold eighteen issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207;
5,897,620; 6,085,169; 6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090;
6,356,878; 6,418,415; 6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503;
7,203,660; 7,188,176; 7,333,941 and over twenty pending United States and
foreign patent applications.  All of our
issued United States patents expire between September 4, 2016 and March 22,
2025.  We file additional patent
applications on new inventions, as appropriate.  

While
we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to
protect our business, there can be no assurance that:  

a third party will not have
or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing features of
our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use those
features;  

our operations do not or
will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties;  

any patent can be
successfully defended against challenges by third parties;  

the pending patent
applications will result in the issuance of patents;  

competitors or potential
competitors of priceline.com will not devise new methods of competing with us
that are not covered by our patents or patent applications;  

because of variations in the
application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be
effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat
business model to offer the same service in one or more categories; or  

new prior art will not be
discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent.  

There
has been discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of
so-called  business method  patents. As a result, the United States Patent and
Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process
applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to
have a direct   effect on patents already granted. We cannot
anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending
patent applications. See,    Risk  Factors   We face risks related to our
intellectual property.    

We
hold the exclusive rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINE      and PRICELINE.COM      in the U.S. as well as in many foreign
countries.  We own U.S. Service Mark
Registrations Nos. 2,481,750; 2,272,659; 2,594,582 for PRICELINE, and
2,481,752; 2,594,592; 2,594,592; and 2,481,112 for PRICELINE.COM, including all
attendant goodwill.  We also own U.S.
Service Mark Registrations Nos. 2,647,673 and 2,644,739 for NAME YOUR OWN PRICE    U.S. Service
Mark Registration No. 2,481,751 for PRICELINEMORTGAGE     , U.S. Service Mark Registration No. 3,357,458 for PRICELINE
EUROPE, and others.  In addition, through
our European subsidiary Bookings Europe BV, we hold the registered service mark
BOOKINGS in the Netherlands (Benelux Registration No. 762054) and in
France (French Registration No. 43276223, as well as French   

11  

Registration No. 43276225 for BOOKING; two European Community ( EC )
service mark registrations for BOOKINGS (Regs. Nos. 3413846 and 3413952,) and
one for ACTIVE HOTELS (ED Reg. No. 3859618).  

We
aggressively monitor, protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks,
trademarks, trade dress, domain names and trade secrets on an ongoing basis
through a combination of laws and contractual restrictions, such as
confidentiality agreements.  For example,
we endeavor to register our trademarks and service marks in the United States
and internationally, currently holding over one hundred fifty service mark
registrations worldwide.  However,
effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our services are or may be made
available online, regardless of our continuous efforts to police and register
our marks.  See,    Risk  Factors          -
    We face risks related to our intellectual property   .   

We
currently own numerous Internet domain names in various top level domains,
particularly for purposes of deterring service mark infringement.  Domain names are generally regulated by
Internet regulatory bodies such as the World Intellectual Property Organization.  The relationship between trademark and unfair
competition laws and domain name registration is evolving.  The Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection
Act in the U.S. and the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy of the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers have both significantly
enhanced the ability to deter the infringing incorporation of trademarks into
domain names by third parties and to assert our registrations against
them.  We actively pursue significant
infringers as appropriate, including cybersquatters and typosquatters who
misappropriate our service marks and misspellings thereof as domain names, in
order to maintain our famous marks and prevent the dilution of their
distinctiveness.  See,    Risk  Factors          
    We face risks related to our intellectual property   .   

Governmental Regulation   

The
services we provide are subject to various federal, state and local
regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the
offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register
as a  seller of travel.   In addition,
our services may be subject to various state and local taxing regulations.  See   Risk Factors     Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes  .  

In addition, our business is indirectly affected by
regulatory and legal uncertainties affecting travel suppliers and global
distribution systems.  In 2004, the
Department of Transportation (the  DOT ) published a Final Rule, abolishing the
rules governing global distribution systems.  As a part of the Final Rule, the DOT rejected
proposals to regulate online travel service providers  fare displays.  However, the DOT deferred consideration of a
proposal to amend its policies regarding advertising of air tickets, to require
that agency service fees be stated separately from the price being charged by
the airlines.  Our current service fee
disclosure practices differ from those proposed by the DOT.  If the DOT were to resume consideration of
and adopt the service fee proposal, we may have less flexibility regarding
merchandising air travel on our websites.  

We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require
protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data, both in the United States and Europe. 
This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in
numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the
European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that
directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended
to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted
in or from the governing jurisdiction.  

Pricelinemortgage.com is
subject to laws governing the licensing and conduct of persons providing
mortgage brokerage services. Such laws typically require certain consumer
protection disclosures and loan solicitation procedures. For example, the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act prohibits the payment and receipt of mortgage
loan referral fees, and permits persons to be compensated   

12  

only
for the fair market value of non-referral services. Accordingly,
pricelinemortgage.com s home financing service provides non-referral services
such as website development and advertising to a licensed mortgage broker who,
in turn, provides the back-end processing for loan referrals.  

All
of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and
regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.  

We
are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online
commerce.  Presently, there are
relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due
to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is
possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet
or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as
online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content
and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights
and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing
issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property
issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing, but any
such new legislation could have significant implications on how we conduct
online business. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in that
state to do business as a foreign corporation because our service is available
in that state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do business in a
number of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain states, or a
determination that we are required to qualify in additional states, could
subject us to taxes and penalties.  See    Risk  Factors  
Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business,   and   Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes .   

Our
European operations are subject to various foreign regulations and governing
bodies that might limit their services. They may be affected by unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade barriers in
connection with online commerce. Any failure by our European operations to
comply may have an adverse effect on our business.  

Seasonality   

Our
 Name Your Own Price     services
are non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at
the time a booking is generated. 
However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services,
including our international operations, at the time that the customer checks
out of the hotel.  As a result, a
meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as
customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be
recognized until future quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense
the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred,
which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  Therefore, as our retail hotel business
continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly
impacted by these seasonal factors.  

Employees   

As of February 15, 2008,
we employed approximately 1,324 full-time employees, of which 282 are based at
our Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters and 998 are based in our international
offices. We also retain independent contractors to support our customer service
and system support functions.  

We
have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by
any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to
be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  

The
priceline.com Website   

We
maintain a website with the address www.priceline.com, among others.  We are not including the information
contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual   

13  

Report
on Form 10-K.  We make available
free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission  .  These reports and other information are also
available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the public may
read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com
Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the
www.priceline.com website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of
Ethics will be disclosed on that website.  

14  

Item 1A.                Risk
Factors      

The following risk factors and other
information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also
impair our business operations.  If any
of the following risks occur, our business, financial     condition, operating results
and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  

Our      international     operations 
business model exposes us to certain risks that we have not traditionally
experienced in the U.S. hotel business.   

Throughout 2007 and 2006,
our international operations
experienced significant growth in their gross bookings.  This growth rate has contributed
significantly to our growth in revenue, gross profit and earnings per
share.  We believe that this growth rate
has also been a significant driver in the increase in our stock price over the
last year.  We expect our international operations to experience a
significant decline in their growth rate in future years as the absolute level
of their gross bookings grows larger. 
Other factors could also cause slowing growth rates in the international business, including changes
in foreign currency exchange rates, travel market conditions, changes in hotel
pricing or availability, the competitiveness of the market and macro economic
weakness.  A decline in our international operations  growth rate
could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share
growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price.  

In addition, our  international operations rely heavily on
various third parties to distribute hotel room reservations, and our international operations  distribution
channels are concentrated among a number of third parties.  Should one or more of such third parties
cease distribution of our international operations  reservations, or suffer deterioration in
its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or
otherwise, the business of our international operations could be negatively affected.  Similarly, a significant amount of our international business is directed to our
own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on
Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience
rapid change both technically and competitively.  We have experienced increased competition and
increased costs associated with our advertising campaigns.  If a major search engine changes its pricing,
operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results
of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 

The strategy of our  international operations involves rapid
expansion into countries in Europe, including eastern Europe, Asia and
elsewhere, many of which have different customs, different levels of customer
acceptance of the Internet and different legislation, regulatory environments
and tax schemes.  Compliance with foreign
legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and
resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse
legal, regulatory or tax consequences. 
If our international operations are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other international countries, our business,
results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 

Our  international operations currently
distribute hotel rooms primarily through a retail model whereby we earn a
commission from the hotel property when the customer checks out of the hotel.  This requires our international operations to pursue
collection of commissions relating to hotel room reservations from the hotel
after the customer has completed his or her stay.  We do not have extensive experience in
collecting commissions from hotels in many of our international markets and
failure to sustain an adequate collection rate could negatively impact the
business of our international operations. 

15  

We are dependent on the leisure travel industry and
certain travel suppliers.    

Our financial prospects are
significantly dependent upon our sale of leisure travel services.  Leisure travel, including the sale of leisure
airline tickets and hotel rooms, is dependent on personal discretionary spending
levels. As a result, sales of leisure travel services tend to decline during
general economic downturns and recessions. In addition, unforeseen events, such
as terrorist attacks, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in
fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities,
travel related accidents, travel related health concerns and unusual weather
patterns also may adversely affect the leisure travel industry. As a result,
our business also is likely to be affected by those events. Further, work stoppages or
labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially adversely affect the
airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  

During the year ended December 31,
2007,  Name Your Own Price        hotel room nights from our five
largest hotel suppliers accounted for approximately 34.9% of total  Name Your Own Price       hotel room nights sold, and sales of
airline tickets from our five largest and two largest airline suppliers
accounted for approximately 83.9% and 39.9% of total airline tickets sold,
respectively. As a result, we are currently substantially dependent upon the
continued participation of these suppliers in our system in order to maintain
and continue to grow our total gross profit. 

Our arrangements with the
hotel and airline suppliers that participate in our system   either  Name Your Own Price     or
price-disclosed service   generally do not require them to provide any specific
quantity of airline tickets or hotel rooms, or to make tickets or rooms
available for any particular route, in any geographic area or at any particular
price.  During the course of our
business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the
nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant
reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in
our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

With respect to our hotel
suppliers, increased demand for hotel rooms may reduce the number of hotel
rooms they sell through our service or increase the negotiated rates at which
they are willing to provide availability. 
If hotel occupancy rates improve to the point that our hotel suppliers
no longer place the same value on our distribution systems, such suppliers may
reduce the number of hotel rooms they make available through priceline.com
and/or our  international operations.  Similarly, while not
dependent on certain hotel chains, the growth rates of our international operations are dependent
upon increasing levels of well-priced, demand-based supply from their portfolio
of hotel partners. 

Many hotels use merchant
arrangements with companies like ours to dispose of excess hotel rooms at
wholesale rates. If hotels experience increased demand for rooms, they might
reduce the number of rooms they make available through our merchant price-disclosed
hotel service.  The recent improvement in
occupancy rates discussed above could cause hotels to reduce the number of
hotel rooms they make available through our merchant price-disclosed hotel
service.  

In addition, certain hotels
have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries
on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to
distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States.  Many hotels distribute rooms through their
own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant rate
hotel rooms sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing
the margin available to us.  While our
merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers
provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to
require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise,
it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  

16  

With respect to our airline
suppliers, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from
full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount
fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue.  Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest,
have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party
intermediaries.  In addition, certain
airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets
through opaque channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available
price on their own website.  Certain
airlines have also reduced their domestic capacity, which could reduce the
number of airline tickets available to our customers.  If one or more participating airlines were to
further limit or eliminate discounting through opaque channels and/or further
reduce capacity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

Due to our dependence on
the airline industry, we could be severely affected by changes in that
industry, and, in many cases, we will have no control over such changes or
their timing.  Recent, there has been a
great deal of speculation in the travel industry, as well as the national
media, about potential mergers among major domestic airlines.  If one of our major airline suppliers merges
or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not
participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially
lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate in our system
or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier.  For example, in September 2005, US
Airways and America West merged.  US
Airways was a meaningful participant in our  Name
Your Own Price        system, but America West participated on a
very limited basis.  The resulting entity
participates in our  Name Your Own Price       system, but at much lower levels
than US Airways  historical participation. 

In addition, in the event
that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares
bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy,
and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely
affected.  To the extent other major U.S.
airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy, they may be unable
or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event
would be to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and
not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on
sales of  Name Your Own Price        airline tickets to our customers,
however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or
credit card charge backs from customers, which could materially and adversely
affect our operations and financial results. In addition, because  Name Your Own Price       customers do not choose the airlines
on which they are to fly, the bankruptcy of a major U.S. airline or even the
possibility of a major U.S. airline declaring bankruptcy could discourage
customers from using our  Name Your Own Price       system to book airline tickets. 

The loss of any major
airline participant in our  Name Your Own
Price        system could result in other major airlines
electing to terminate their participation in the  Name Your Own Price       system, which would further negatively impact
our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, fewer independent suppliers
reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are unable to divert
sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected. 

In addition, given the
concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our
competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with
tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven
commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services.  

With respect to our rental car suppliers, increased utilization (a common metric that
measures rental car customer usage) may reduce the number of car reservations
they sell through our service or increase the negotiated rates at which they are
willing to provide car reservations. 
Like airline and hotel suppliers, rental car companies are focused on
selling rental car reservations through their own sites, which reduces the
amount of rental car reservations available to us.  Furthermore, if one of our major rental car
suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that
either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on
substantially lower levels, the surviving   

17  

company may elect not to participate in our system or
to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier.  Finally, because rental car days are
typically less expensive than airline tickets or hotel room nights, a reduction
in retail rental car rates has a disproportionately adverse effect on sales of  Name Your Own Price        rental car days since customers may
be less likely to accept the trade-offs associated with that service. 

Intense competition could reduce our market share
and harm our financial performance.    

We compete with both online
and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services
we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch
new sites at a relatively low cost. In addition, the major online travel
companies with which we compete have significantly greater financial resources
and capital than we do.  We may not be
able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Orbitz
Worldwide, Sabre or Expedia, each of which have access to significantly greater
and more diversified resources than we do.  

We currently or potentially
compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With
respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited
to:  

Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are
owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre
Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are
currently owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui
Travel, and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, Venere, hotel.de, Hotel
Reservation Service and Wotif;  

travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car
companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive
business;  

large online portal and search companies, such as AOL (including AOL
Travel), Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel) and Google;  

traditional travel agencies;  

online travel search sites such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com
and Kayak.com s recent acquisition, SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as
 meta-search ) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such
as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and  

operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo,
Worldspan, L.P., Amadeus and Sabre.  

Many airline, hotel and
rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are
focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book
airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, several low cost airlines, which
are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute their tickets
exclusively through their own websites. 
Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a
processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.  

We potentially face
competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have
expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic,
including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us
either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or
off-line companies.  We also compete with
 meta-search  companies, which are companies that leverage their search
technology to aggregate travel search results   

18  

across supplier, travel agent and other
websites.  For example, Yahoo! owns
FareChase.com, a travel search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates
at travel supplier and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites,
and AOL is party to a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority
interest in, Kayak.com, another leading meta-search company.  Other established search engine companies as
well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this
manner.  If Yahoo!, Google or other
portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could
result in more competition from supplier websites and higher customer
acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours. In addition, because we
advertise on certain meta-search sites, a loss of business for competitive
reasons could result.  Competition from these
and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.  

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:  

marketing and promotional campaigns;  

                         attracting traffic to their websites;  

                         attracting and retaining key employees;  

                         securing vendors and supply; and  

                         website and systems development.  

Increased competition could
result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our
brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

Our business could be negatively affected by
changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics.    

We utilize Internet search
engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to
generate traffic to our websites.  Our  international operations, in particular,
rely to a significant extent upon business from search engines such as
Google.  Search engines such as Google
frequently update and change the logic which determines the placement and
display of results of a user s search, such that the placement of links to our
sites, and particularly those of our international operations and their affiliates, can be negatively
affected.  In a similar way, a
significant amount of our international business is directed to our own websites through
participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines
whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially,
technically and competitively.  If a
major search engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that
negatively affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party
distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics
in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial
condition would be adversely affected. 

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates.    

As a result of our acquisitions
of our  international operations, we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our
business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S.
dollars.  As a result, we face exposure
to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our
international
operations are
translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation.  For example, our international operations contributed approximately $372.6 million to
our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, which compares to
$182.7 million for the same period in 2006. Approximately $30.3 million of this
increase is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  If the U.S.
dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these
foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net
revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss.  Similarly,  

19  

our net assets, net revenues, operating expenses, and
net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against local
currency. Additionally, transactions denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency may result in gains and losses that may adversely impact
our results of operations.  

We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to meet future debt,
purchase of minority interest and earnout obligations.   

As
of December 31, 2007, we have $570 million of convertible senior notes
outstanding. Based upon the closing price of our common stock during the
measurement periods provided for by our convertible debt during the three
months ended December 31, 2007, the contingent conversion thresholds for
each of the notes were exceeded.  As a
result, all of our outstanding notes are convertible at the option of the
holder as of December 31, 2007, and, accordingly, have been classified as
a current liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that date.  While many factors contribute to the
likelihood that the holders of the notes will elect to convert all or a portion
of the notes, as the price of our common stock increases, the likelihood of
conversion also increases.  If holders
elect to convert, we would be required to settle the principal amount of the
notes in cash and the conversion premium in cash or shares of common stock.  

In
connection with our acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005 and
Booking.com Limited in September 2004 and the reorganization of our
international operations, key managers of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com
Limited purchased shares of priceline.com International.  The holders of the minority interest in
priceline.com International have the right to put their shares to us in
2008 at a purchase price reflecting the fair market value of the shares at the
time of the exercise of the put right (see Note 15 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements).  The estimated
aggregate fair value of the minority interest in priceline.com International
subject to put rights is estimated to be approximately $95 million at December 31,
2007, including unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units.  

Pursuant
to the purchase agreement relating to our acquisition of the Agoda Companies, we may be required to pay, in 2011,
certain shareholders of the Agoda
Companies an earnout of up to $141.6 million in cash if the Agoda Companies achieve certain performance targets
from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010.  

We
would likely fund these obligations with existing cash and cash equivalents,
short-term investments, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, common
stock issuances and/or additional borrowings. 
It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to
arrange for additional financing which would cause us to be in default under
our indentures or revolving credit facility and/or in breach of purchase
agreement obligations relating to priceline.com International or the Agoda Companies, and our business, results of
operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.  

The repayment of our $570 million Convertible Senior Notes could result
in a substantial decrease in our net interest income.   

We
incur interest expense with respect to our convertible senior notes at annual
percentage rates that range between 0.50% and 2.25%.  Because we currently maintain and have
maintained significant cash and cash equivalents, short-term investment and
long-term investment balances on our balance sheet (approximately $510.3
million as of December 31, 2007) and because the interest rates that we
earn on those balances are significantly in excess of the interest rates that
we pay on our convertible senior notes, we are generating significant interest
income net of our interest expense.  If
we were to use our cash and investment balances to repay our convertible senior
notes, or if we are unable to refinance our convertible senior notes with new
indebtedness bearing interest at rates similar to our convertible senior notes,
then our earnings could be significantly negatively impacted by a decrease in
net interest income.  While many factors
contribute to the likelihood that the holders of the notes will elect to
convert all or a portion of the notes, as the price of our common stock
increases, the likelihood of conversion also increases.  

20  

Our processing, storage, use and disclosure
of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches
and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation,
conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.   

The secure transmission of
confidential information over the Internet is essential in maintaining consumer
and supplier confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing
security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or
other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We
currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their
offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our
toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer
circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including
our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer
transaction data.  

We incur substantial
expense to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences.
However, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security
breaches. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third
party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer
information or transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant
interruptions in our operations. For instance, several major websites,
including websites operated by us, have experienced interruptions, which could
be significant, as a result of improper direction of excessive traffic to those
sites, and computer viruses have substantially disrupted e-mail and other
functionality in a number of countries, including the United States. Security
breaches also could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose
us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to
regulatory penalties. Security breaches could also cause customers and
potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a
negative effect on the value of our brand. 
Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be
adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches.  

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find
unsatisfactory.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time
consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are
difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions
increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in
detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given
attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could
expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal customer data
and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

We also face risks
associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business
over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy
on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth
of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com service as a means of
conducting commercial transactions. 
Additionally, security breaches at the third-party, supplier or
distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity,
damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible
liability and subject us to regulatory penalties.  

In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data.  This data is increasingly subject
to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  This government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  We could be adversely affected if legislation
or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their   

21  

legislation or regulations in ways that negatively
affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

In addition, in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United
States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives
to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security
Administration s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as
CAPPS II.  These initiatives may result
in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling.  As privacy and data protection has become a
more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a
result of differing views on the privacy of travel data.  Travel businesses have also been subjected to
investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper
disclosure of passenger information. 
These and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate
could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

We rely
on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain
or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our
business would be harmed.   

Our    performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts
of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing
ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled
personnel for all areas of our organization. 
In particular, the contributions of certain key senior management in the
U.S. and Europe are critical to the overall management of the company.  In addition, because the value of company
equity grants and, in the case of our European senior management, their
minority ownership interest, which is subject to repurchase in March and August of
2008, has increased substantially as our share price has increased, it may
become more difficult to retain senior managers over time as they realize the
value of these equity interests.  We
cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our
senior management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our
business.  

In
addition, competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our
business, including software engineers and other technology professionals, is
intense both in the U.S. and abroad. 
With the recent success of our international business and the increased
profile of the Booking.com business and brand, competitors have increased their
efforts to hire our international employees. 
Further, as we continue to grow our international operations, we are
seeking to rapidly hire a wide range of employees in different   and often
constrained   job markets.  Our continued
ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees
and to retain and motivate existing employees. 
If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining
and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We
do not maintain any key person life insurance policies.  

Our
expansion places a significant strain on our management, technical, operational
and financial resources.   

We
have rapidly and significantly expanded our international operations and
anticipate expanding further to pursue growth of our service offerings and
customer base. For example, the number of our employees worldwide has grown
from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007, to approximately 1,324 as of February 15,
2008, which growth is almost entirely comprised of hires by our international
operations .  Such expansion increases
the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our
management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal
financial control and reporting functions.  

There
can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expansion
effectively.  Our current and planned
personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and
effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in
multiple geographic locations.  We may
not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel,
which may limit our growth, damage our reputation, negatively affect our
financial performance, and harm our business.  

22  

Capacity constraints and system failures could harm
our business.    

We rely on certain third
party computer systems and third party service providers, including the
computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car
industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and domestic hotel room and
rental car reservations. In particular, our domestic travel business is
substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators
of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in
these third party services systems or deterioration in their performance could
prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a
material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party
service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide
recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of
such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative
source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms
and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

We also depend upon
Paymentech to process our U.S. credit card transactions. If Paymentech were
wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until such a
time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different
vendor.  As we add complexity to our
systems infrastructure by adding new suppliers and distribution, our total
system availability could decline and our results could suffer.  

A substantial amount of our
computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the
facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT T in New York City, Equinix Europe Ltd.
in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus in the
Netherlands. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or
interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication
failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage,
intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite any precautions
we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of service due to any such
misconduct, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the SAVVIS
facility, the AT T facility, the Equinix Europe Ltd. facility or the
TelecityRedbus and Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. facility could result in
lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition, the failure by SAVVIS,
Verizon, AT T, Equinix Europe Ltd., Colt Telecom Group Limited, Verizon
Business B.V., or TrueServer B.V. to provide our required data communications
capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that
causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our
services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Like many online
businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. In addition
to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a
significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed
by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service
could result in an immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial and may
cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or
persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently
harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of
our system. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be
successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.  

We use both internally
developed systems and third-party systems to operate the priceline.com service,
including transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If
the number of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical
third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly
expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial
and accounting systems and other infrastructure. We do not know whether we will
be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions
in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our
transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a
meaningful amount of time before repair.  

23  

If our systems cannot be
expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could
experience:  

unanticipated disruptions in service;  

slower response times;  

decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or  

delays in the introduction of new services,  

any of which could impair our reputation, damage our
brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues.  While we do maintain redundant systems and
hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could
experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business
interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.  

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of
system challenges.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system
characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources
and expertise that are difficult to obtain. 
Such acquisitions increase potential downtime, customer facing problems
and compliance problems.  Failure to
successfully make any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us
to potential capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an
adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We have integrated the
majority of our international agency hotel
offerings into a single back-office extranet system operated by Booking.com
B.V., in order to allow customers of both Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com
Limited to access hotels which may have previously been available only through
either Booking.com B.V. or Booking.com Limited. 
Because all of our   international
  operations  agency hotel offerings are therefore on one platform, in
the event that the extranet operated by Booking.com B.V. experiences a system
failure, our international operations
could be unable to generate hotel bookings, which would have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.    

On
an ongoing basis, we conduct a review and interpretation of the tax laws in
various states and other jurisdictions relating to the payment of state and
local hotel occupancy and other related taxes. 
In connection with our review, we have met and had discussions with
taxing authorities in certain jurisdictions but the ultimate resolution in any
particular jurisdiction cannot be determined at this time.  Currently, hotels collect and remit hotel
occupancy and related taxes to the various tax authorities based on the amounts
collected by the hotels.  Consistent with
this practice, we collect a tax recovery charge on the underlying cost of the
hotel room night from customers and are billed by the hotel operators for taxes
the hotel operators pay to the appropriate tax authorities.  As discussed above, several jurisdictions
have initiated lawsuits indicating the position that sales tax or hotel
occupancy tax is applicable to the differential between the price paid by a
customer for our service and the amount charged by the hotel for the underlying
room.  Historically, we have not
collected taxes on this differential. 
Additional state and local jurisdictions could assert that we are
subject to sales or hotel occupancy taxes on this differential and could seek
to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively or both.  Such actions may result in substantial
liabilities for past and/or future sales and could have a material adverse
effect our business and results of operations. 
To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that any such
tax collection responsibility exists, it is likely that, with respect to future
transactions, we would collect any such additional tax obligation from our
customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room
reservations to our customers and, consequently, could reduce hotel reservation
transactions.  We will continue to assess
the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to
the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities.  

24  

Current economic conditions in the United States are triggering active
consideration on ways to generate additional tax revenues by the federal, state
and local governments. We cannot predict what changes in tax law or
interpretations of such laws may be adopted or assure that such changes or
interpretations would not materially impact our business.   

Acquisitions could result in operating
difficulties.    

As part of our business
strategy, in September 2004, we acquired Booking.com Limited, in July 2005,
Booking.com B.V. and, in November 2007, the Agoda Companies.  We may enter into additional business
combinations and acquisitions in the future. 
Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use
of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related
to intangible assets acquired.  In
addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or
technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures.  The acquisitions of  Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, and the Agoda Companies were accompanied by a number of
risks, including, without limitation: 

the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and
policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the
acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies;  

the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of   Booking.com
Limited, which are principally located in
Cambridge, England, Booking.com B.V., which are principally located in
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and the Agoda Companies, which are principally
located in Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, with and into our operations, which
are headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut;  

the potential disruption of our ongoing business and
distraction of management;  

the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and
rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such
integration;  

the failure to further successfully develop acquired
technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as
intangible assets;  

the impairment of relationships with customers of   Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited and the Agoda
Companies or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations;  

the impairment of relationships with employees of
Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and the Agoda Companies or our own
business as a result of any integration of new management personnel;  

the potential unknown liabilities associated with
Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and the Agoda Companies.  

We may experience similar
risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in
addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the
acquisitions of  Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited or the Agoda
Companies, or that we could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm
our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our
acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $434 million assigned
primarily to the intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and the Agoda Companies,
and therefore, the occurrence of any of the aforementioned risks could result
in a material adverse impact, including an impairment of these assets, which
could cause us to have to record a charge for impairment.  Any such charge could adversely impact our
operating results, which would cause our stock price to decline significantly. 

25  

We may not be able to keep up with rapid
technological and other changes.    

The markets in which we
compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry
standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and
enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with
these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened
by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from
many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future
success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies,
to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve
the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to
competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In
addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or
telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us
to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or
infrastructure.  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) is considering
accounting rule changes that would significantly impact the accounting for
our convertible debt.   

During the third quarter 2007, FASB issued for comment a
proposed FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-a,  Accounting for Convertible
Debt Instruments that May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including
Partial Cash Settlement)  ( FSP APB 14-a ) that would significantly impact the
accounting for convertible debt.  The FSP
would require cash settled convertible debt, such as our $570 million aggregate
principal amount of convertible senior notes that are currently outstanding, to
be separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a value to be
assigned to each.  The value assigned to
the debt component would be the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date,
of a similar bond without the conversion feature.  The difference between the bond cash proceeds
and this estimated fair value would be recorded as a debt discount and
amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond.  Although FSP APB 14-a would have no impact on
our actual past or future cash flows, it would require us to record a
significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is
amortized.  As a result, there would be a
material adverse impact on our results of operations and earnings per
share.  In addition, if our convertible
debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity, any unamortized debt discount
would result in a loss on extinguishment. 
FASB is expected to begin its redeliberations of the guidance in the
proposed FSP in February 2008.  

FASB s Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) is reviewing
Issue No. 07-5,  Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature)
Is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock.  This Issue addresses the determination of
whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own
stock.  Under current US GAAP, the conversion options embedded in our
convertible debt are considered to be indexed to our stock.  If certain of the views being discussed by
the EITF are adopted, we may be required to account for our embedded conversion
options as derivatives and record them on our balance sheet as a liability with
subsequent fair value changes recorded in the income statement.  Although EITF 07-5 would have no impact on
our actual past or future cash flows, it would require us to record a
significant liability on our consolidated balance sheet.  Subsequent fair value adjustments could
result in significant charges or credits recorded in our consolidated statement
of operations.  As a result, there would
be a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of
operations and earnings per share.  The
EITF is expected to continue discussing EITF 07-5 at future meetings  .  

We rely on the value of the priceline.com and
Booking.com brands, along with others, and the costs of maintaining and
enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.    

We believe that maintaining
and expanding the priceline.com brand, and other owned brands, including  Booking.com,
Active Hotels, Agoda, Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com, MyTravelGuide.com
and Travelweb, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand our
user and advertiser base.  As our larger
competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required to spend
more in order to maintain our brand recognition.  In addition, we have spent considerable money
and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the priceline.com
brands, and we will  

26  

continue to spend money on, and devote resources to
advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance
consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands. We may not be able to
successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com
brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts
may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer
awareness of the priceline.com brands in a cost-effective manner, our business,
results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.  

Our outstanding convertible senior notes
could result in substantial shareholder dilution.   

Our convertible senior
notes are convertible into shares of our common stock if certain specified
conditions are met.  All of our
convertible notes are currently convertible. 
Upon conversion, the holder will receive cash for the principal amount
of the note and cash or shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and
shares of our common stock for the conversion value in excess of such principal
amount.  If our stock trades above the
conversion prices of the outstanding convertible notes, our diluted share count
will increase by the net number of shares that would become issuable to the
holders of our outstanding convertible notes and, as a consequence, have a
dilutive impact on net income per share. 
As an example, at stock prices of $40 per share, $80 per share, $100 per
share and $150 per share, our diluted share count would include approximately
0.1 million, 7.2 million, 8.6 million and 10.5 million equivalent shares,
respectively, related to the conversion premium on our convertible debt
(excluding the offsetting impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges described in
Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  The  Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective conversion price of the
2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes from $40.38 to $50.47 per share, and reduce the
dilution upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes.  Since the impact of the Conversion Spread
Hedges is anti-dilutive it is excluded from the calculation of net income per
share under GAAP until they are exercised upon maturity. 

Our financial results will
be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future.    

We commenced recording a U.S. tax
provision in the third quarter of 2005 upon reversing of a portion of our
valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. 
Due to our significant net operating loss carryforwards, we do not
expect to pay cash taxes on our U.S. federal taxable income tax for the foreseeable
future.  We expect to make cash payments
for U.S. alternative minimum tax and for certain international taxes.  We expect that in 2008 and beyond, our
international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the
U.S and therefore it is our expectation that our cash tax rate and cash tax
payments will increase as our international business generates an increasing
share of our pretax income.  

The unit profitability of our airline ticket business has declined and
could continue to decline, as we may be subject to, among other things,
competitive pressure and loss or reduction of global distribution system fees.   

In
recent quarters, the amount of profit we make per airline ticket sold has
declined and could continue to decline as we, among other things, experience
pressure from suppliers to reduce our profit, strive to remain competitive with
other online travel agencies and continue to be subject to reduction of global
distribution system, or GDS, fees paid to us. 
Historically, we have relied on fees paid to us by GDSs for travel bookings made through GDSs for a portion
of our gross profit and a substantial portion of our operating income. We
rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers (e.g., airlines, hotels, etc.) in
exchange for contractual considerations such as those relating to pricing and
availability, and expect to continue to do so in the future.  During 2006, most agreements between GDSs and
the major domestic airlines expired, and most airlines have negotiated new
agreements with reduced distribution costs for the airlines that went into
effect on or around September 1, 2006. 
The structure of these new agreements, along with airline pressure on us
to operate under the new structures, requires us to reduce our aggregate compensation
and book through lower cost channels to receive airlines  full content and
avoid airline service fees.  We have
entered into new agreements with a number of airlines to obtain access to
airline content, and are in continuing discussions with others to obtain
similar access.  If we were denied access

27  

to airlines  full content or had to impose service
fees on our airline tickets, it could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Additionally, some travel
suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to
develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct
connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution
methods recently developed by new entrants to the global distribution
marketplace, such as G2 Switchworks Corp. 
Such new entrants propose using technology that is less complex than
traditional global distribution systems, and that enables the distribution of
airline tickets in a manner that is more cost-effective to the airline
suppliers.  To this end, in 2006, we
entered into an agreement with G2 Switchworks for the provision of GDS
services.  In addition, to further reduce
our dependence on Worldspan, L.P., in 2006, we entered into an agreement for
the provision of GDS services with Sabre Inc. 
Development of the technology to connect to such alternative GDSs, or to
enable direct connections to travel suppliers, requires the use of information
technology resources and could cause us to incur additional operating expenses,
increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects.  

We face risks related to our intellectual property.    

We regard our intellectual
property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our
proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual
property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.  

While we believe that our
issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business,
there can be no assurance that:  

any patent can be successfully defended against challenges
by third parties;  

pending patent applications will result in the issuance of
patents;  

competitors or potential competitors of priceline.com will
not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents
or patent applications;  

because of variations in the application of our business
model to each of our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one
or more third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same
service in one or more categories;  

new prior art will not be discovered which may diminish the
value of or invalidate an issued patent;  

a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents
that prevent us from practicing features of our business or require us to pay
for a license to use those features; or  

our operations do not or will not infringe valid,
enforceable patents of third parties.  

There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called  business
method  patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has
indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such
patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct
effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any,
the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.   In addition, there has been recent
discussion in various federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and
validity of so called  business method  patents. The Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit, in a recent order in    In re Bilski   , has questioned whether it
should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called
business method patents in    State Street Bank v. Signature Financial   .  
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will
have on our issued patents or pending patent applications.  

We pursue the registration
of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However,
effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our services are made available
online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the
value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.  

28  

From time to time, in the
ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently
subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property
rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert
intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us,
particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual
property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely
expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert
managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us
could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our
business, or portions of our business. 
In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to
use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive
to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Our business is
exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and charge backs.   

To date, our results have
been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards.
Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our transactions, we
may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our website as well
as other payment disputes with our customers. Additionally, we are held liable
for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do
not act as merchant of record. 
Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting
credit card charge backs.  If we are
unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our website, our
business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.  

Fluctuations in our
financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting
difficult.    

Our
revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to
quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect
seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional
leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third
calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In
the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services
in the United States generally declines and the number of bookings
flattens.  Travel revenues in Europe, on
the other hand, have been higher in the third and fourth quarters than in the
first and second quarters.  Furthermore,
prior to introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all
of our business was conducted under the  Name
Your Own Price     system and accordingly, because those
services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize travel revenue at the time
a booking was generated.  We recognize
revenue generated from our retail hotel service, however, including our  international
operations, at
the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, we have seen and expect to
continue to see, that a meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated
earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer
vacations, will not be recognized until future quarters.  This could result in a disproportionate
amount of our annual earnings being recognized in later quarters. 

Our results may also be
affected by seasonal fluctuations in the supply made available to us by
airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating results
may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these
factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and
operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our limited
operating history, a relatively new and unproven business model and an
uncertain environment in the travel industry, it may be difficult to predict
our future revenues or results of operations.  

Because of these
fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the
expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading
price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially adversely
affected.  

29  

Our stock price is highly volatile  . 

The market price of our common
stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide
fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are
beyond our control:  

quarterly variations in our operating results;  

operating results that vary from the expectations of
securities analysts and investors;  

changes in expectations as to our future financial
performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and
investors;  

changes in our capital structure;  

changes in market valuations of other Internet or online
service companies;  

announcements of technological innovations or new services
by us or our competitors;  

announcements by us or our competitors of significant
contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
commitments;  

loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or
hotel chain;  

changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;  

lack of success in the expansion of our business model
geographically;  

announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings
against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;  

occurrences of a significant security breach;  

additions or departures of key personnel; and  

stock market price and volume fluctuations.  

Sales of a substantial
number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of
our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given
the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market
price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations
in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock
attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds
into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either
direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.  

The trading prices of
Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme
price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public s perception of
the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price
could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and
industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless
of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political
and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate
fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock.  Negative market conditions could adversely
affect our ability to raise additional capital.  

We are defendants in
securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action
litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of
volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price
declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional
litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and
divert management s attention and resources.  

30  

We are party to legal
proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us.   

We are a party to the legal
proceedings described in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  The defense of the actions described in Note
17 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

Regulatory and legal
uncertainties could harm our business.   

The services we offer through the
priceline.com service are regulated by federal and state governments. Our
ability to provide such services is and will continue to be affected by such
regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable
interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could
require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the
affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  See  Uncertainty
regarding state and local taxes.   

Item
1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments      

None.  

Item
2.  Properties      

Our executive, administrative, operating offices and
network operations center are located in approximately 92,000 square feet of
leased office space located in Norwalk, Connecticut.  Booking.com Limited leases approximately
11,000 square feet of office space primarily in Cambridge, England.  Booking.com B.V. leases approximately 85,000
square feet of office space primarily in Amsterdam, Netherlands.  We also lease office space in 13 other
countries in support of our international operations.  We do not own any real estate as of February 15,
2008.  

We believe that our existing facilities are adequate
to meet our current requirements, and that suitable additional or substitute
space will be available as needed to accommodate any further expansion of
corporate operations.  

Item
3.  Legal Proceedings      

Litigation Related to Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes   

Statewide Putative Class Actions   

A number of cities and counties have filed putative
class actions on behalf of themselves and other allegedly similarly situated
cities and counties within the same respective state against the Company and
other defendants, including, but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com Incorporated
and Travelweb LLC, both of which are subsidiaries of the Company, and
Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.; Cheaptickets, Inc.;
Travelport, Inc. (f/k/a Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.);
Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com);
Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC;
Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  Each complaint alleges, among other things,
that the defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax
ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes
under each ordinance.  Each complaint
typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law,
attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such
actions include:  

31  

City of Los Angeles v.
Hotels.com, Inc., et al.   :  On December 30,
2004, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Superior Court for the
County of Los Angeles by the City of Los Angeles on behalf of itself and an
alleged class of California cities, counties and other municipalities that have
enacted occupancy taxes.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under
California Business and Professions Code   17200, et seq. ( Section 17200 ).  On August 31, 2005, the City of Los
Angeles filed an amended complaint adding a claim for a declaratory
judgment.  On September 26, 2005,
the court sustained the defendants  demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims, and therefore, dismissed the amended complaint, with
leave to file a second amended complaint. 
On February 8, 2006, the City of Los Angeles filed a second amended
complaint that asserts the same claims but includes additional allegations of
fact.  On March 27, 2006, at the
direction of the court, the defendants filed renewed demurrers to the second
amended complaint on grounds of improper joinder of defendants and claims.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
a petition to coordinate this matter with the City of San Diego case (discussed
below).  On July 12, 2006, that
petition was granted, and, as a result, this case and the City of San Diego case
will now proceed in the Superior Court of Los Angeles.   On January 17, 2007, the defendants
filed demurrers to the City of Los Angeles  second amended complaint on all
issues other than misjoinder of defendants and claims.  On March 1, 2007, the court denied
defendants  previously-filed demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims.  On March 2,
2007, the City of Los Angeles filed a third amended complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the defendants filed
renewed demurrers to the third amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s third amended complaint
without prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City is presently
conducting those administrative procedures.  

City of Fairview Heights
v. Orbitz, Inc., et al.   :  On October 5,
2005, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court,
Twentieth Judicial Circuit, St. Clair County, Illinois, by the City of Fairview
Heights on behalf of itself and a putative class of Illinois taxing authorities
that are allegedly authorized to impose a tax on the business of renting hotel
rooms.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for violation of the Illinois Consumer Fraud
and Deceptive Practices Act, 815 ILCS 505/1, similar laws in other states,
conversion and unjust enrichment.  On November 28,
2005, the Company and certain other defendants removed this action to the
United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois.  On January 17, 2006, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On February 10,
2006, the City of Fairview Heights moved to remand this action to state
court.  On July 12, 2006, the court
granted defendants  motion to dismiss all claims other than the tax claim,
denied defendants  motion to dismiss the tax claim, and denied plaintiff s
motion to remand.  On August 1,
2007, the City of Fairview Heights moved for class certification.  That motion is pending.  

City of Rome, Georgia, et
al., v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On November 18,
2005, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia by the City of Rome, Hart County and
the City of Cartersville on behalf of themselves and a putative class of
Georgia cities, counties and governments which have enacted transient occupancy
taxes and/or excise taxes on lodging.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of
Georgia s Uniform Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act, conversion, unjust
enrichment, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On February 6, 2006, the Company and
certain other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On May 8, 2006, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss all claims relating to the Georgia sales and use
tax and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the excise tax claims.  The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on June 7,
2006 naming additional plaintiffs.  On February 9,
2007, the defendants moved for summary judgment on the plaintiffs  claims for
plaintiffs  failure to exhaust the administrative procedures required by
Georgia law and plaintiffs  respective ordinances.  On May 10, 2007, the court denied the
defendants  motion but concluding that plaintiffs were required to estimate,
assess and attempt to collect the taxes at issue.  The court stayed further litigation to permit
plaintiffs to comply with those administrative procedures.  Since May 10, 2007, certain of the
plaintiffs have sent the Company and other defendants notices of deficiency and
requests for reports regarding hotel   

32  

reservation transactions in their respective jurisdictions, to which
the Company and other defendants have responded.  

Pitt County v.
Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On December 1, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the North Carolina General Court
of Justice, Superior Court Division by Pitt County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of North Carolina political subdivisions that impose occupancy
taxes.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for violation of North Carolina General Statute
  75-1, et seq., conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory
judgment.  On February 13, 2006, the
defendants removed this action to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.  On March 13,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 29, 2007, the court denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On April 13, 2007, the defendants moved for reconsideration of that
decision or, in the alternative, interlocutory appeal.  On August 13, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion for reconsideration of the court s prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss, and dismissed the action in its entirety.  On September 6, 2007, Pitt County filed
a notice of appeal of that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit.  That appeal is
pending.  

City of San Antonio,
Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On May 8,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Texas, San Antonio Division, by the City of
San Antonio on behalf of itself and putative classes of Texas
municipalities.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claim for conversion and a declaratory
judgment.  On June 30, 2006, the
Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On August 28, 2006, the plaintiff moved
for class certification.  Following
briefing of the motion to dismiss and motion for class certification, on October 30,
2006, the plaintiff filed a first amended complaint that limited the putative
classes of Texas municipalities to 175 specifically enumerated municipalities
that plaintiff alleges to have hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to that
of the plaintiff.  On March 21,
2007, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the City of San Antonio s
amended complaint.   On May 16 and
17, 2007, the court conducted a hearing on the City of San Antonio s motion for
class certification.  That motion remains
pending.   On September 7, 2007, the
defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s March 21,
2007 order denying the defendants  motion to dismiss, and that motion was
denied on October 1, 2007.  

Lake County Convention
and Visitors Bureau, Inc. and Marshall County v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   : 
On June 12, 2006, a putative class action was filed in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, Hammond Division,
by the Lake County Convention and Visitors Bureau and Marshall County on behalf
of themselves and a putative class of Indiana counties, convention and visitors
bureaus and any other local governments which have enacted or benefit from
taxes on innkeepers.  In addition to the
tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment,
and breach of fiduciary duties.  On November 3,
2006, the Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  That motion is pending.  

City of Columbus, et al.
v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On August 8,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio by the cities of Columbus and Dayton on
behalf of themselves and a putative class of Ohio cities, counties and
townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes on lodging.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, money had and received, conversion,
a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.   On September 25, 2006, the Company and
other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On September 27, 2006, the Company and
other defendants moved to transfer the case to the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio, where the  City of
Findlay  case (discussed below) is pending.  On January 8, 2007, the Magistrate Judge
issued a report and recommendation that the case be transferred to the Northern
District of Ohio.  Plaintiffs objected to
the Magistrate Judge s report and recommendations.  On July 10, 2007, the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Ohio transferred the case to the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.  On July 23, 2007, the court in the
Northern District of Ohio granted defendants  motion to dismiss the plaintiffs 

33  

Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and denied defendants  motion to
dismiss the remaining claims, adopting the reasoning of the court s opinion on
the motion to dismiss in the  City of Findlay 
case.  On August 31, 2007, the
defendants answered the complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the parties jointly moved to consolidate the  City of
Columbus  action with the  City of Findlay 
action for pre-trial purposes, and that motion was granted on November 6,
2007.  On February 19, 2008, the
cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay moved to amend their respective
complaints to drop all class action allegations and to add nine additional Ohio
municipalities as plaintiffs.   That
motion is pending.  

Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   : 
On September 21, 2006, a putative class action was filed in the
United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky by the
Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government on behalf of itself and a putative
class of Kentucky cities, counties and townships that have enacted transient
room taxes.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, money had and
received, unjust enrichment, a constructive trust, and a declaratory
judgment.  On December 15, 2006, the
plaintiff moved to amend the complaint to make certain changes to the identity
of the defendants. That motion was granted, and, on January 8, 2007,
plaintiff filed its amended complaint. 
On December 22, 2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the original
complaint, and, on January 17, 2007, renewed their motion to dismiss with
respect to the amended complaint.  On August 10,
2007, the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On September 13, 2007, the defendants
answered.  On October 26, 2007, the
defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss, or, in the alternative, certification of
interlocutory appeal to the Kentucky Supreme Court or the United States Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  On November 9,
2007, the plaintiff moved to strike the defendants  motion for
reconsideration.  Both motions are
pending.  The plaintiff has stated its
intent to seek to amend its amended complaint to withdraw its class
allegations.  

County of Nassau, New
York v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On October 24,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of New York by Nassau County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New York cities, counties and other local governmental
entities that have imposed hotel taxes since March 1, 1995.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment and a constructive
trust.  On January 31, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On August 17, 2007, the court granted the defendants  motion to
dismiss the complaint for the County of Nassau s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On September 12, 2007, the County of
Nassau filed a notice of appeal of that order to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.  That
appeal is pending.  

City of Fayetteville v.
Hotels.com, L.P., et al.:     On February 28, 2007, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Washington
County, Arkansas by the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas on behalf of itself and
a putative class of Arkansas cities, counties and townships that have enacted
uniform hotel taxes on lodging.  In
addition to the claim for hotel taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a
declaratory judgment, conversion, unjust enrichment, and a constructive
trust.  On July 24, 2007, the City
of Fayetteville filed an amended complaint correcting the names of certain
defendants.  On August 7, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint.  That motion is pending.  

City of Jefferson,
Missouri v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On June 27,
2007, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Cole
County, Missouri by the City of Jefferson, Missouri on behalf of itself and a
putative class of Missouri cities, counties and governments that have enacted
taxes on lodging.  In addition to the
claim for hotel taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for violation of the
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment,
declaratory judgment, breach of fiduciary duties and a constructive trust.  On November 5, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  That
motion is being briefed.  

34  

City of Gallup, New
Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On July 6,
2007, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of New Mexico by the City of Gallup on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New Mexico taxing authorities that have enacted lodgers 
taxes.  The complaint asserts claims for
violation of the New Mexico Lodger s Tax Act and municipal ordinances.  On August 27, 2007, the defendants
answered the City of Gallup s complaint. 
The parties are currently conducting discovery.  

The Company intends to defend vigorously against the
claims in all of the aforementioned proceedings.  

Actions Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities   

Several cities, counties, municipalities and other
political subdivisions across the country have filed actions relating to the
collection of hotel occupancy taxes against the Company and other defendants,
including, but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com Incorporated and Travelweb LLC,
both of which are subsidiaries of the Company, and Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com
GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.; Cheaptickets, Inc.; Cendant Travel
Distribution Services Group, Inc.; Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork
Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.;
Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP;
and Travelnow.com, Inc.  In each,
the complaint alleges, among other things, that each of these defendants
violated each jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax ordinance with
respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes under each
ordinance.  Each complaint typically
seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law, attorneys 
fees and other relief.  Such actions
include:  

City of Findlay v.
Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On October 25, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the Common Pleas Court of Hancock
County, Ohio by the City of Findlay on behalf of itself and a putative class of
Ohio cities, counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes
on lodging.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of the Ohio Consumer
Sales Practices Act, Ohio Revised Code Chapter 1345,  et seq. ,
conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On November 22, 2005, the Company and
certain other defendants removed this action to the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio. 
On January 30, 2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On July 26, 2006, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss the Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and
denied defendants  motion to dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 2, 2007, the City of Findlay
filed a motion seeking leave to amend its complaint to withdraw its allegations
seeking to assert claims on behalf of a state-wide class of Ohio cities,
counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes on
lodging.  On August 15, 2007, the
court granted that motion and an amended complaint withdrawing those class
allegations was filed.  On September 4,
2007, the defendants answered the amended complaint.  On November 5, 2007, the parties jointly
moved to consolidate the  City of Findlay 
action with the  City of Columbus  action (discussed
above) for pre-trial purposes, and that motion was granted on November 6,
2007.   On February 19, 2008, the
cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay moved to amend their respective
complaints to drop all class action allegations and to add nine additional Ohio
municipalities as plaintiffs.   That
motion is pending.  

City of Chicago, Illinois
v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al   .:  On November 1,
2005, the City of Chicago, Illinois filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, imposition of
a constructive trust, and a demand for a legal accounting.  On January 31, 2006, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On September 27,
2007, the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On November 2, 2007, the defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
currently conducting discovery.  

City of San Diego,
California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   :  On February 9,
2006, the City of San Diego, California filed a complaint in Superior Court for
the County of San Diego, California.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition
claims under Section 17200.  On   

35  

March 31, 2006, the defendants filed with a petition to coordinate
this matter with the  City of Los Angeles 
case (discussed above).  On July 12,
2006, that petition was granted, and, as a result, this case was coordinated
with the  City of Los Angeles  action and will
proceed in the Superior Court of Los Angeles. 
As discussed above, on March 1, 2007, the court denied defendants 
previously-filed demurrers to the City of Los Angeles  Second Amended Complaint
on misjoinder grounds, which the parties deemed applicable to the City of San
Diego s complaint.  On January 17,
2007, the defendants filed demurrers to the City of San Diego s complaint on
all issues other than misjoinder of defendants and claims.  On March 8, 2007, the City of San Diego
filed an amended complaint.  On April 11,
2007, the defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss the amended
complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the
court sustained the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s amended
complaint without prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City is presently
conducting those administrative procedures.  

City of Atlanta, Georgia
v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   :  On March 29,
2006, the City of Atlanta, Georgia filed a complaint in the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for a declaratory judgment,
conversion, unjust enrichment, a constructive trust and a demand for an
equitable accounting.  On June 5,
2006, certain defendants, including the Company and its subsidiaries, answered
the complaint.  The parties proceeded to
conduct discovery.  On October 12,
2006, as directed by the court, the defendants submitted briefs regarding the
City of Atlanta s failure to exhaust the administrative remedies dictated by
Georgia law and its own ordinance.  On December 12,
2006, the court dismissed the City of Atlanta s action for lack of jurisdiction
because the City of Atlanta failed to exhaust mandatory administrative remedies
prior to bringing suit.  On January 10,
2007, the City of Atlanta filed a notice of appeal to the court s order
deciding it lacked jurisdiction.  On October 26,
2007, the Georgia Court of Appeals affirmed the order of the Georgia Superior
Court.  On November 5, 2007, the
City moved for reconsideration of the October 26, 2007 opinion, and that
motion was denied on November 13, 2007. 
On December 10, 2007, the City filed a petition for certiorari with
the Georgia Supreme Court.  The
defendants have opposed that petition, which remains pending.  

City of Charleston, South
Carolina v. Hotel.com, et al.   :  On April 26,
2006, the City of Charleston, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of
Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, a constructive trust and a demand for a
legal accounting.  On May 31, 2006,
defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the District
of South Carolina, Charleston Division. 
On July 7, 2006, the defendants answered the complaint.  On January 23, 2007, the City of
Charleston moved to amend the complaint to assert claims arising under the
South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.  
On April 23, 2007, the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave
to amend its complaint to assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair
Trade Practices Act, and plaintiff amended its complaint to assert such claims
on May 14, 2007.  On April 26, 2007,
the court granted defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  Town of Mount Pleasant  (discussed below).  On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the court denied that motion.  The
parties are currently conducting discovery.  

Town of Mount Pleasant,
South Carolina v. Hotels.com, et al.   :  On May 23,
2006, the Town of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court
of Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On July 21, 2006, the defendants removed
the case to the United States District Court for the District of South
Carolina, Charleston Division.  On September 15,
2006, the defendants answered the complaint. 
On January 22, 2007, the Town of Mount Pleasant moved to amend the
complaint to assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade
Practices Act.  On April 23, 2007,
the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert
claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and
plaintiff amended its complaint to assert such claims on May 14,
2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court
granted defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  City of Charleston  (discussed above).  On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the court denied that motion.  The
parties are currently conducting discovery.  

36  

City of North Myrtle
Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On August 28,
2006, the City of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the
Court of Common Pleas, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On October 27, 2006, the Company and
certain other defendants removed the case to the United States District Court
for the District of South Carolina, Florence Division.  On December 1, 2006, the defendants
filed their motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On September 30, 2007, the court denied that motion.  

Wake County v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On November 3, 2006, Wake
County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice,
Superior Court Division, Wake County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy
Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq. ,
and breach of agency duties and statutory penalties.  On January 31, 2007, the defendants moved
to dismiss this action.  On February 1,
2007, the defendants moved to designate the case as a complex business case
subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Business Court, to which
plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to the Business Court.  On April 4, 2007, the  Wake County, Dare County, Buncombe County and Dare County 
actions (discussed below) were consolidated for pre-trial purposes, and the
following discussion applies to all four actions.  On May 7, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the  Dare County and Buncombe County 
actions.  On November 19, 2007, the
court granted in part and denied in part the motions to dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims for
conversion, all claim for violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,
et seq.  The court also dismissed all
claims brought by Cumberland County for that plaintiff s failure to exhaust
mandatory administrative remedies before filing suit.  The remaining claims brought by the other
three plaintiffs survived the defendants  motions.  The remaining parties are currently
conducting discovery.  

Cumberland County v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al.   : On December 4, 2006, Cumberland County, North Carolina filed a
complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Cumberland
County, North Carolina.  In addition to
the claim for Room Occupancy Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for
a declaratory judgment, an injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive
trust, an accounting, violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq. , and breach of agency duties and statutory
penalties.  On February 12, 2007,
the defendants moved to dismiss this action and moved to designate the case as
a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Business
Court, to which plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to the
Business Court.  On April 4, 2007,
this action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above.  

Dare County v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On January 26, 2007, Dare
County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice,
Superior Court Division, Dare County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy
Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq. ,
and breach of agency duties and statutory penalties.  On February 22, 2007, the defendants
moved to designate the case as a complex business case subject to the
jurisdiction of the North Carolina Business Court, and the case was thereafter
transferred to the Business Court.  On April 4,
2007, this action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above.  

Buncombe County v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On February 1, 2007,
Buncombe County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of
Justice, Superior Court Division, Buncombe County, North Carolina.  In addition to the Company and those
subsidiaries named in certain of the foregoing litigations (Lowestfare.com
Incorporated and Travelweb LLC), the complaint also names priceline.com LLC as
a defendant.  The complaint seeks a
declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes, as
well as supplemental relief including, without limitation, an accounting and a
determination of the amount of taxes due but unpaid.  Buncombe County designated its complaint as a
mandatory complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North
Carolina Business Court.  On April 4,
2007, this action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above.  

37  

City of Branson v.
Hotels.com, LP., et al.   :  On December 28, 2006, the
City of Branson, Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Greene
County, Missouri.  In addition to the
claim for Tourism Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory
judgment, conversion and a legal accounting. 
On April 23, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint,
and that motion was denied on November 26, 2007.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery.  

Horry County, et al. v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On February 2, 2007,
Horry County, South Carolina and the Horry County Administrator filed a
complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment
that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and that the plaintiffs are
entitled to other relief, including penalties and interest.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.  On January 7,
2008, the court indicated that it would deny the defendants  motion to dismiss,
but no order has been entered.  

City of Myrtle Beach,
South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On February 2,
2007, the City of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court
of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The
complaint seeks a declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for
occupancy taxes and that the plaintiff is entitled to other relief, including
penalties and interest.  On April 23,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On December 11, 2007, the court heard
argument on that motion, along with the motion in the Horry County action
(discussed above).  

City of Houston, Texas v.
Hotels.com, LP., et al.   :  On March 5, 2007, the
City of Houston, Texas filed a complaint in the District Court of Harris
County, Texas.  In addition to the claim
for violation of the Houston hotel occupancy tax ordinance, the complaint also
asserted claims for conversion, constructive trust, civil conspiracy, and a
legal accounting.  On April 30,
2007, the defendants filed special exceptions to the complaint.  On July 5, 2007, the court denied in
part and granted in part the defendants  special exceptions.  The court denied the special exceptions
relating to the adequacy of the plaintiff s allegations, but granted the
special exceptions requiring the plaintiff to state with specificity the
maximum amount of damages claimed.  On October 2,
2007, the City of Houston filed an amended complaint adding the Harris County
Sports Authority as a plaintiff.  On October 15,
2007, the Company and the other defendants filed renewed special exceptions to
the complaint and affirmative defenses. 
On November 19, 2007, the court granted those special
exceptions.  On January 22, 2008,
the plaintiffs filed a second amended petition. 
On February 4, 2008, the Company and the defendants filed renewed
special exceptions to the petition and moved to dismiss the action.  The special exceptions and motion are
pending.  

City of Oakland,
California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On June 29,
2007, the City of Oakland, California filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
City of Oakland s Transient Tax Ordinance, the complaint also asserted unfair
competition claims under California Business and Professions Code   17200,  et seq. , and claims for conversion, unjust enrichment,
punitive damages, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On September 18, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On November 6,
2007, the court granted the defendants  motion and dismissed the City of
Oakland s complaint with prejudice for the City s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On December 5, 2007, the City of Oakland
filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.  That appeal is being briefed.  

City of Madison v.
Expedia, Inc., et al.   :  On November 30,
2007, the City of Madison filed a declaratory judgment complaint in the Circuit
Court for Dane County, Wisconsin seeking a declaration that the defendants are
subject to the Madison hotel occupancy tax. 
On January 23, 2008, the Company and the other defendants moved to
dismiss the City of Madison s declaratory judgment complaint on the basis that
the City failed to exhaust its mandatory administrative remedies before filing
suit.  That motion is pending.  

38  

Mecklenburg County v.
Hotels.com LP, et al.   :  On January 14, 2008,
Mecklenburg County filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior
Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for room occupancy
taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1, et seq., and breach of
agency duties and statutory penalties. 
At the time it filed the complaint, Mecklenburg also moved to designate
the case as a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North
Carolina Business Court.  The Company and
its subsidiaries accepted service of the complaint and are presently scheduled
to move to dismiss, answer or otherwise respond to the complaint on or before March 24,
2008.  On February 19, 2008, this
action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above.  

We have also been informed by counsel to the
plaintiffs in certain of the aforementioned actions that various, undisclosed
municipalities or taxing jurisdictions may file additional cases against the
Company, Lowestfare.com Incorporated and Travelweb LLC in the future.  Some of those municipalities or taxing
jurisdictions have sent the Company and/or its subsidiaries tax notices or
demands, including Brunswick County and Stanly County, North Carolina,
Jefferson County, Arkansas, City of North Little Rock, Arkansas, and the Pine
Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission.  

The Company intends to defend vigorously against the
claims in all of the aforementioned proceedings.  

Consumer Class Actions   

Marshall, et al. v.
priceline.com, Inc.   :  On February 17, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
Delaware for New Castle County by Jeanne Marshall and three other individuals
on behalf of themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated
consumers nationwide against the Company. 
The complaint alleged that the Company violated the Delaware Consumer
Fraud Act, Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6,   2511,  et seq. ,
relating to its disclosures and charges to customers to cover taxes under city
hotel occupancy tax ordinances nationwide, and service fees.  The Company moved to dismiss the complaint on
April 21, 2005.  On June 10,
2005, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that asserts claims under the
Delaware Consumer Fraud Act and for breach of contract and the implied duty of
good faith and fair dealing.  The amended
complaint seeks compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys  fees and
other relief.  On October 31, 2006,
the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to
dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims
arising under the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. 
The court also dismissed all claims for breach of contract and the
implied duty of good faith and fair dealing that relate to Company s charges
for service fees.  The court denied the
Company s motion to dismiss the breach of contract and implied duty of good
faith and fair dealing claims as they relate to the Company s charges to
consumers to cover taxes under city hotel occupancy tax ordinances.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery.  The plaintiffs have stated
their intent to seek leave to amend their complaint.  

Bush, et al. v.
Cheaptickets, Inc., et al.   :  On February 17,
2005, a putative class action complaint was filed in Superior Court for the
County of Los Angeles by Ronald Bush and three other individuals on behalf of
themselves and other allegedly similarly situated California consumers against
the Company and several of the same defendants as named in the  City of Los Angeles  action (discussed above).  The complaint alleges each of the defendants
engaged in acts of unfair competition in violation of Section 17200
relating to their respective disclosures and charges to customers to cover
taxes under the above ordinances of the City of Los Angeles and other
California cities, and service fees.  The
complaint seeks restitution, relief for alleged conversion, including punitive
damages, injunctive relief, and imposition of a constructive trust.  On July 1, 2005, plaintiffs filed an
amended complaint, adding claims pursuant to California s Consumer Legal
Remedies Act, Civil Code  1750,  et seq.  and
claims for breach of contract and the implied duty of good faith and fair
dealing.  On December 2, 2005, the
court ordered limited discovery and ordered that motions challenging the
amended complaint would be coordinated with any   

39  

similar motions filed in the  City of Los Angeles 
action.  Since that time, the Company has
provided limited discovery and opposed the plaintiffs  motion to compel further
discovery.  

The Company intends to defend vigorously against the
claims in all of the aforementioned proceedings.  

Other Possible Actions   

At various times the Company has also received
inquiries or proposed tax assessments from municipalities and other taxing
jurisdictions relating to its charges and remittance of amounts to cover state
and local hotel occupancy and other related taxes.  The City of New Orleans, Louisiana, the City
of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Miami-Dade County, Florida, Broward County,
Florida, the City of Anaheim, California, and state tax officials from
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Indiana, among others, have begun formal or
informal administrative procedures or stated that they may assert claims
against the Company relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel occupancy
or related taxes.  In addition, the State
of New Jersey Department of Taxation has begun an audit related to the state s
Corporation Business Tax.  The Company is
unable at this time to predict whether any such proceedings or assertions will
result in litigation.  

The Company intends to defend vigorously against the
claims in all of the aforementioned proceedings.  

Litigation Related to Securities Matters   

On March 16, March 26, April 27, and June 5,
2001, respectively, four putative class action complaints were filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York naming priceline.com, Inc.,
Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter  
Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston
Robertson Stephens, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants
(01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576, 01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).  Shives  et
al  .  v. Bank of America Securities LLC
 et al  . ,
01 Civ. 4956, also names other defendants and states claims unrelated to the
Company.  The complaints allege, among
other things, that priceline.com and the individual defendants violated the
federal securities laws by issuing and selling priceline.com common stock in
priceline.com s March 1999 initial public offering without disclosing to
investors that some of the underwriters in the offering, including the lead
underwriters, had allegedly solicited and received excessive and undisclosed
commissions from certain investors.  By
Orders of Judge Mukasey and Judge Scheindlin dated August 8, 2001, these
cases were consolidated for pre-trial purposes with hundreds of other cases,
which contain allegations concerning the allocation of shares in the initial
public offerings of companies other than priceline.com, Inc.  By Order of Judge Scheindlin dated August 14,
2001, the following cases were consolidated for all purposes:  01 Civ. 2261; 01 Civ. 2576; and 01 Civ.
3590.  On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs
filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint in these cases.  This Consolidated Amended Class Action
Complaint makes similar allegations to those described above but with respect
to both the Company s March 1999 initial public offering and the Company s
August 1999 second public offering of common stock.  The named defendants are priceline.com, Inc.,
Richard S. Braddock, Jay S. Walker, Paul E. Francis, Nancy B. Peretsman,
Timothy G. Brier, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Goldman Sachs  
Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., Robertson
Stephens, Inc. (as successor-in-interest to BancBoston), Credit Suisse
First Boston Corp. (as successor-in-interest to Donaldson Lufkin  
Jenrette Securities Corp.), Allen   Co., Inc. and Salomon Smith
Barney, Inc.  Priceline, Richard
Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Nancy Peretsman, and Timothy Brier,
together with other issuer defendants in the consolidated litigation, filed a
joint motion to dismiss on July 15, 2002. 
On November 18, 2002, the cases against the individual defendants
were dismissed without prejudice and without costs.  In addition, counsel for plaintiffs and the
individual defendants executed Reservation of Rights and Tolling Agreements,
which toll the statutes of limitations on plaintiffs  claims against those
individuals.  On February 19, 2003,
Judge Scheindlin issued an Opinion and Order granting in part and denying in
part the issuer s motion.  None of the
claims against the Company were dismissed.  

40  

On June 26, 2003, counsel for the plaintiff class announced that
they and counsel for the issuers had agreed to the form of a Memorandum of
Understanding (the  Memorandum ) to settle claims against the issuers.  The terms of that Memorandum provide that class
members will be guaranteed $1 billion in recoveries by the insurers of the
issuers and that settling issuer defendants will assign to the class members
certain claims that they may have against the underwriters.  Issuers also agree to limit their abilities
to bring certain claims against the underwriters.  If recoveries in excess of $1 billion are
obtained by the class from any non-settling defendants, the settling defendants 
monetary obligations to the class plaintiffs will be satisfied; any amount recovered
from the underwriters that is less than $1 billion will be paid by the insurers
on behalf of the issuers.  The
Memorandum, which is subject to the approval of each issuer, was approved by a
special committee of the priceline.com Board of Directors on Thursday, July 3,
2003.  Thereafter, counsel for the
plaintiff class and counsel for the issuers agreed to the form of a Stipulation
and Agreement of Settlement with Defendant Issuers and Individuals ( Settlement
Agreement ).  The Settlement Agreement implements
the Memorandum and contains the same material provisions.  On June 11, 2004, a special committee of
the priceline.com Board of Directors authorized the Company s counsel to
execute the Settlement Agreement on behalf of the Company.  The Settlement Agreement was submitted to the
Court for approval.  Subsequently, the
Second Circuit reversed the District Court s granting of class certification in
certain of the related class actions.  As
a result, the parties entered into a stipulation and order dated June 25,
2007 which terminated the Settlement Agreement. 
The Company intends to vigorously defend against the claims in all these
proceedings.  

On May 3, 2007, the
Company entered into a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement ( Settlement
Agreement ) to settle a class action lawsuit brought after its announcement
that third quarter 2000 revenues would not meet expectations.  Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement,
the class received $80 million in return for a release, with prejudice, of all
claims against the Company and the individual defendants (the  Settling
Defendants ) that are related to the purchase of the Company s securities by
class members during the class period. 
The Company s insurance carriers funded $30 million of the settlement.  As a result, the Company recorded a 2007 net
charge of approximately $55.4 million representing its share of the cost
to settle the litigation and cover related expenses.  

The Company will continue to assess the risks of the
potential financial impact of these matters, and to the extent appropriate, it
will reserve for those estimates of liabilities.  

Other Litigation   

On January 6, 1999, we
received notice that a third party patent applicant and patent attorney, Thomas
G. Woolston, purportedly had filed in December 1998 with the United States
Patent and Trademark Office a request to declare an interference between a
patent application filed by Woolston and our U.S. Patent 5,794,207.  We are currently awaiting information from the
Patent Office regarding whether it will initiate an interference proceeding.  

From time to time, we have been
and expect to continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the
ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of third
party intellectual property rights.  Such
claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant
financial and managerial resources, divert management s attention from our
business objectives and could adversely affect our business, results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.  

Item
4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of
Security Holders      

No matters were submitted for a vote of stockholders
of priceline.com during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31,
2007.  

41  

PART II     

Item
5.  Market for Registrant s Common
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      

Price Range of Common Stock   

Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select
Market under the symbol  PCLN.   The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales
prices per share of the common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select
Market:  

Holders   

As of February 15, 2008, there were approximately
626 stockholders of record of priceline.com s common stock, although we believe
that there are a significantly larger number of beneficial owners.  

Dividend Policy   

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our
capital stock since our inception and do not expect to pay any cash dividends
for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if
any, to finance the expansion of our business.  

Equity Compensation Plan Information   

Information required by Part II, Item 5, relating
to Equity Compensation Plan Information will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2007.  

Performance Measurement Comparison   

The following graph shows the total stockholder return
through December 31, 2007 of an investment of $100 in cash on January 1,
2003 for priceline.com common stock and an investment of $100 in cash on January 1,
2003 for (i) the NASDAQ Market Index and (ii) the Hemscott Group
Index.  The Hemscott Group Index is an
index of stocks representing the Internet industry, including Internet software
and services companies and e-commerce companies.  Historic stock performance is not necessarily
indicative of future stock price performance. 
All values assume reinvestment of the full amount of all dividends and
are calculated as of the last day of each month:  

42  

Sales of Unregistered Securities   

In 2007, a holder of our 2.25% Convertible Senior
Notes converted approximately $50,000 in principal amount of notes into 819
shares of our common stock and holder of our 1% Convertible Senior Notes
converted approximately $23,000 in principal amount of notes into 575 shares of
our common stock.  See Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

43  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The following table sets
forth information relating to repurchases of our equity securities during the
three months ended December 31, 2007:  

1  

Pursuant to a stock repurchase program announced on
  November 2, 2005, whereby the Company was authorized to repurchase up to
  $50,000,000 of its common stock.  

2  

Pursuant to a stock repurchase program announced on
  September 21, 2006, whereby the Company was authorized to repurchase up
  to $150,000,000 of its common stock.  

3  

Pursuant to a general authorization, not publicly
  announced, whereby the Company is authorized to repurchase shares of its
  common stock to satisfy employee withholding tax obligations related to
  stock-based compensation.  

44  

Item
6.  Selected Financial Data      

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   

The total liabilities amount for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 included in selected financial data presented
below has been restated.  See Note 21 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The
following selected consolidated financial data presented below are derived from
the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of the Company, and
should be read in connection with those statements, some of which are included
herein.  Selected financial data reflects
data related to the Agoda Companies, Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and
Travelweb LLC from their respective acquisition dates of November 2007, July 2005,
September 2004 and May 2004. 
The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future
results and should be read in conjunction with Item 7,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.    

45  

Item 7.
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations      

The following
discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements,
including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K,
and the Section entitled  Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements  in this Form 10-K.  As
discussed in more detail in the Section entitled  Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements,  this discussion contains forward-looking
statements which involve risks and uncertainties.  Our actual results may differ materially from
the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that might cause those differences
include, but are not limited to, those discussed in  Risk Factors.     

Overview   

General   . 
We are a leading online travel company that offers our customers a broad
range of travel services, including airline tickets, hotel rooms, car rentals,
vacation packages, cruises and destination services.  In the United States, we offer our customers
a unique choice: the ability to purchase travel services in a traditional,
price-disclosed manner or the opportunity to use our unique  Name Your Own Price       service, which allows our customers to make
offers for travel services at discounted prices.  Internationally, we offer our customers hotel
room reservations in 60 countries and 22 languages.  

We launched our business in the United States in 1998
under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to
include, among others, the brands Booking.com and Active Hotels in Europe and
Agoda in Asia.  Our goal is to be the
leading worldwide online hotel reservation service and be the top online
discount travel agent in the United States. 
At present, we derive substantially all of our revenues from the
following sources:  

Transaction revenues from our  Name Your Own Price     airline ticket, hotel room
  and rental car services, as well as our vacation packages service;  

Commissions earned from the sale of price-disclosed
  hotel rooms, rental cars, cruises and other travel services;  

Customer processing fees charged in connection with
  the sale of both  Name Your Own Price     and price-disclosed airline
  tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars services. Priceline eliminated
  processing fees for its price-disclosed airline ticket service in
  June 2007;  

Transaction revenue from our price-disclosed
  merchant hotel room service;  

Global distribution system ( GDS ) reservation
  booking fees related to both our  Name Your
  Own Price    
  airline ticket, hotel room and rental car services, and price-disclosed
  airline tickets and rental car services; and  

Other revenues derived primarily from selling
  advertising on our websites.  

Over the last several years, our business has
transitioned from one driven primarily by domestic results to one driven
primarily by international results. 
Prior to 2004, substantially all of our revenues were generated within
the United States.  In September 2004,
we acquired Booking.com Limited, a U.K.-based online hotel service, in July 2005,
we acquired Booking.com B.V., a Netherlands-based online hotel service, and in November 2007,
we acquired Agoda Company, Ltd. ( Agoda ) and AGIP LLC ( AGIP,  and together
with Agoda, the  Agoda Companies ), an online hotel service with operations in
Singapore and Thailand.  During the year
ended December 31, 2007, our international business   the significant
majority of which is currently generated by our European operations  
represented approximately 55% of our gross bookings, and contributed more than
two-thirds of our consolidated operating income during that period.  We expect that throughout 2008 and beyond,
our international business will represent a growing percentage of our total
gross bookings and operating income.  

46  

International Trends   .  The size of
the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than
that within the United States. 
Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of
international consumers have trailed those of the United States.  However, international consumers are rapidly
moving to online means for purchasing travel. 
Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have
substantially exceeded and are expected to continue to exceed the growth rates
within the United States.  In addition,
the base of hotel suppliers in Europe is particularly fragmented compared to
that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel
chains.  We believe online reservation
systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels
more commonly found outside of the United States.  We believe these trends have enabled us to
become the top hotel service provider in Europe, and will allow us to
successfully expand our service offerings internationally beyond Europe.  

As our international operations have become significant
contributors to our results and international hotel bookings have become of
increased importance to our earnings, we have seen, and expect to continue to
see, changes in certain of our operating expenses and other financial metrics.  For example, because our international
operations utilize online affiliate and search marketing as the principal means
of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has
increased significantly since our acquisition of those companies, a trend we
expect to continue throughout 2008 and beyond. 
In addition, and as discussed in more detail below, since the
acquisitions of Booking.com Limited and Booking.com B.V., we have seen the
effects of seasonal fluctuations on our operating results change as a result of
different revenue recognition policies that apply to our price-disclosed
services (including our international hotel service) as compared to our  Name Your Own Price     services.  

Another impact of the growing importance that our
international operations represent to our business is our increased exposure to
foreign currency exchange risk.  Because
we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the
United States and are reporting our results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure
to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our
international operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars
upon consolidation.  Our international
operations contributed approximately $372.6 million to our revenues for the
year ended December 31, 2007, which compares to $182.7 million for the
same period in 2006.  Approximately $30.3
million of this increase is due to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates.  If the U.S. dollar weakens
against the local currency, the translation of these
foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net
revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss.  Similarly, our net assets, net revenues,
operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. dollar
strengthens against local currency.  

Domestic
Trends   .  While the online market for travel services
continues to experience significant annualized growth, we believe that the
domestic market share of third-party distributors, like priceline.com, has
declined over the recent past and that the growth of the domestic online market
for travel services has slowed.  We
believe the decline in market share is attributable, in part, to a concerted initiative
by travel suppliers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to
reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their
pricing.  In addition, airlines and hotel
chains have generally experienced year-over-year increases in load factors (a
common metric that measures airplane customer usage) and occupancy rates (a
common metric that measures hotel customer usage), respectively, which leaves
them with less excess supply to provide third party intermediaries like
priceline.com.  Recent decreases in
domestic airline capacity could further reduce the amount of airline tickets
available to us.  Notwithstanding these
trends, we continue to believe that the market for domestic online travel
services is an attractive market with continued opportunity for growth.  

The financial prospects of our domestic business have
historically been significantly dependent upon the sale of leisure airline
tickets and, as a result, the health of our domestic business has been impacted
by the health of the airline industry. 
While the sale of leisure airline tickets remains an important part of
our business, revenue earned in connection with the domestic reservation of
hotel room nights has come to represent a substantial majority of our domestic
gross profit.  The domestic hotel   

47  

market has been characterized in recent years by robust demand and
limited supply, leading to increased occupancy rates, and in turn, increased
average daily rates ( ADRs ).  Because
our remuneration for agency hotel transactions increases proportionately with
room price, increased ADRs generally have a positive effect on our agency hotel
business.  Higher ADRs, however, can also
negatively affect consumer demand, and higher occupancy rates can lead hotels
to restrict our access to merchant hotel availability, particularly in high
occupancy destinations popular with our travel base.  Higher occupancy rates also have historically
tended to drive lower margins as hotel suppliers have less need to distribute through
third-party intermediaries such as us.  

Recently, significant attention has been given to the
state of the United States economy and concern has been expressed regarding
certain recessionary trends.  We do not
believe that our 2007 financial results were impacted by a slowdown in the
United States economy, and we believe that our brands and services are
attractive to consumers and suppliers in times of economic stress.  There can be no assurance, however, that our
business would not be adversely affected if current economic conditions
continue or worsen.  

We also rely on fees paid to us by global distribution
systems, or GDSs, for travel bookings made through GDSs for a portion of our
gross profit and a substantial portion of our operating income.  Connectivity to a GDS does not guarantee us
access to the content of a travel supplier such as an airline or hotel
company.  We have agreements with a
number of suppliers to obtain access to content, and are in continuing
discussions with others to obtain similar access.  If we were denied access to a suppliers  full
content or had to incur service fees in order to access or book such content,
our results could suffer.  

We believe that our success will depend in large part
on our ability to maintain profitability, primarily from our hotel business, to
continue to promote the priceline.com brand in the United States, the
Booking.com brand internationally, the Agoda brand in Asia and, over time, to
offer other travel services and further expand into other international
markets. Factors beyond our control, such as the outbreak of an epidemic or
pandemic disease; natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or
earthquakes; terrorist attacks, hostilities in the Middle East or elsewhere; or
the withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier, could adversely
affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to
effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above.  We intend to continue to invest in marketing
and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with
attempts to improve operating results. 
We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we
explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other
things, mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we currently do not have
operations in geographic areas such as South America, and therefore may
consider strategic alternatives in those areas. 
Our goal is to improve volume and sustain gross margins in an effort to
maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the
prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we
cannot provide assurance that we will sustain revenue growth and profitability.  

Seasonality   .  Our  Name Your Own Price     services are non-refundable
in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking
is generated.  However, we recognize
revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including our international
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail
hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve
their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized as revenue until
future quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial
majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically
in the quarter in which bookings are generated. 
Therefore, as our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our
quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors.  

48  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial
Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Our significant accounting
policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements. Certain of our accounting policies are particularly important to
our financial position and results of operations and require us to make
difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make
estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying those policies,
our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be
used in the determination of certain estimates. On an on-going basis, we
evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below.
Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms
of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on
various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the
circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions.  A
summary of our significant accounting policies that involve significant
estimates and judgments of management, including the following:  

Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance   . 
As required by SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  we
periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets,
and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation
allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider
many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our
deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by
taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future income, the carryforward periods
available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors.  Based upon management s assessment of
positive and negative evidence, we recorded non-cash tax benefits in 2007, 2006
and 2005 of $47.9 million, $28.1 million and $170.5 million, respectively,
resulting from a reversal of a portion of our valuation allowance on our
deferred tax assets.  We believe that it
is more likely than not that our remaining deferred tax assets will not be
realized and, accordingly, a valuation allowance against those assets remains.  The valuation allowance may need to be
adjusted in the future if facts and circumstances change.  

Stock-Based Compensation.     We record stock-based compensation expense over the
service period based upon the grant date fair value of equity-based
grants.  We estimate forfeiture rates in
determining the amount of compensation to record.  In addition, we record stock-based
compensation expense for grants that include a performance contingency based
upon the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period.  We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based
compensation recorded when estimated forfeiture rates are adjusted, or when the
probable outcome for performance-based shares is updated based upon changes in
facts and circumstances.  

Accounting for State and Local  Hotel
Occupancy  Taxes   .  As discussed in Note 17 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, several jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against
several on-line travel companies, including us, alleging among other things,
that sales or hotel occupancy tax is applicable to the differential between the
price paid by a customer for our service and the cost of the underlying room.
Historically, we have not collected taxes on this differential. Additional
state and local jurisdictions could assert that we are subject to sales or
hotel occupancy taxes on this differential and could seek to collect such
taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both. To the extent that any
tax authority succeeds in asserting that a tax collection responsibility
applies to transactions conducted through the priceline.com service, we might
have additional tax exposures.  We will continue to assess the risks of
the potential financial impact of additional tax exposures, and to the extent
appropriate, we reserve for those estimated liabilities.  

49  

Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts.     Because we act as merchant of record in
the majority of our transactions, we may be held liable for accepting
fraudulent credit cards on our website as well as other payment disputes with
our customers. Additionally, we are also held liable for accepting fraudulent
credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of
record. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting
credit card charge-backs. In addition, in connection with hotel agency
transactions, we provide an allowance for doubtful accounts based on past
experience and the age of commissions receivable.  

Valuation of Goodwill   . 
We have recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired
including Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Travelweb, the Agoda Companies
and priceline.com europe Ltd. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for
impairment using appropriate valuation techniques.  In the event that future circumstances
indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an impairment charge
would be recorded.  

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets and
Intangibles.     We evaluate whether events or
circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of
long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired or not recoverable. The
significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review
include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use
of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future
operating results; and negative industry or economic trends.  In evaluating an asset for possible
impairment, management estimates that asset s future undiscounted cash flows to
measure whether the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the asset is
not recoverable, we measure the impairment based on the projected discounted
cash flows of the asset over its remaining life.  

Airline Debit Memos.    Our airline suppliers periodically send
us debit memos that make claims for additional amounts due to them related to
the cost of airline tickets we sold on their behalf.  We process the debit memos received and, when
appropriate, make payments to the airlines. 
Based on our historical experience and our contractual arrangements with
the airlines, we establish reserves for estimated losses when appropriate
resulting from these claims.  

Results of Operations   

Year
Ended December 31, 2007 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006   

Operating
Metrics    

Our financial results are driven by certain operating
metrics that encompass the selling activity generated by our travel
services.  Specifically, sales of airline
tickets, hotel room nights and rental car days capture the volume of units
purchased by our customers.  Gross
Bookings capture the total dollar value inclusive of taxes and fees of all
travel services purchased by our customers. 
International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated
principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross
bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross
bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by,
operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic
operations, in each case without regard to the location of the travel or the
customer purchasing the travel.  

50  

Gross bookings resulting from airline tickets, hotel
room nights and rental car days sold through our domestic and international
operations in 2007 and 2006 were as follows:  

Gross bookings resulting from airline tickets, hotel
room nights and rental car days sold through our agency and merchant models in
2007 and 2006 were as follows:  

Gross bookings increased by 45.5% for the year ended December 31,
2007, compared to the same period in 2006. 
The increase was primarily attributable to 98.6% growth in our
international gross bookings, virtually all of which relates to retail hotel
room night sales (including the $223 million favorable impact of foreign
currency exchange rates).  Domestic gross
bookings increased by 9.2%, primarily due to growth in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room nights, retail airline tickets due
to the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007 and  Name Your Own Price       rental car
days, partially offset by a decrease in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       airline tickets.  

Agency gross bookings increased 64.4% for the year
ended December 31, 2007, due to growth in our international hotel
operations and in the sale of retail airline tickets due to the elimination of
booking fees in June of 2007. 
Merchant gross bookings increased 9.3% for the year ended December 31,
2007, due to an increase n the sale of  Name
Your Own Price       hotel room nights and an increase in the sale
of  Name Your Own Price       rental car
days, partially offset by a decrease in the sale of  Name Your Own Price         airline
tickets.  

Airline tickets sold increased by 4.8% for the year
ended December 31, 2007, over the same period in 2006.  The increase in the number of airline tickets
sold in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in
2006, was primarily attributable to an increase in the sale of retail airline
tickets, partially offset by a decrease in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       airline
tickets.  Retail airline ticket bookings
increased primarily due to our elimination of booking fees in June 2007.  

51  

Hotel room nights sold increased by 48.9% for the year
ended December 31, 2007, over the same period in 2006, primarily due to an
increase in the sale of agency room nights in connection with our international
operations as well as an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room nights in the United
States.  

Rental car days sold increased by 15.6% for the year
ended December 31, 2007, over the same period in 2006, due to increases in
sales of both our  Name Your Own Price       and retail
rental car services.  

Revenues    

We classify our revenue into three categories:  

Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where
we are the merchant of record and are responsible for, among other things,
collecting receipts from our customers, selecting suppliers and remitting
payments to our suppliers.  Merchant
revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price
of  Name Your Own Price       airline
tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction
revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged
by suppliers in connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in
connection with the sale of  Name Your Own
Price       airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars
and merchant price-disclosed hotels; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS
reservation booking fees related to certain of the aforementioned transactions.  

Agency revenues are derived from travel related
transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of
our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel
commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees related
to certain of the aforementioned transactions and are reported at the net
amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. In June 2007, we
eliminated processing fees on the priceline.com price-disclosed airline ticket
service.  

Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising
on our websites.  

We continue to experience a shift in the mix of our
travel business from a business historically focused exclusively on the sale of
domestic point-of-sale travel services to a business that includes significant
sales of international point-of-sale hotel services, a significant majority of
which are currently generated in Europe. 
Because our domestic services include merchant  Name Your Own Price       travel
services, which are reported on a  gross  basis, while both our domestic and
international retail travel services are primarily recorded on a  net  basis,
revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale
of merchant and retail travel services and, consequently, gross profit has
become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our
business.  Our international operations
contributed approximately $372.6 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31,
2007, which compares to $182.7 million for the same period in 2006.  Approximately $30.3 million of this increase
is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  

52  

Merchant
Revenues   

Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31,
2007 increased 10.9% compared to the same period in 2006, primarily due to an
increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       and merchant price-disclosed hotel room nights
and  Name Your Own Price       rental car days, partially offset by a
decrease in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       airline tickets.  In addition, as more fully discussed in Note
17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we recorded excise tax refunds of
$18.6 million in merchant revenues in the year ended December 31, 2007.  

Agency
Revenues   

Agency revenues for the year ended December 31,
2007 increased 86.2% compared to the same period in 2006, primarily as a result
of growth in our international operations, which contributed $367 million of
agency revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, and $179 million of
agency revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. Approximately $30.0
million of this increase is due to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates.  These increases were partially
offset by declines in agency revenue related to the sale of price-disclosed
airline tickets, for which priceline.com ceased charging processing fees in June 2007.  

Other
Revenues   

Other revenues during the year ended December 31,
2007 consisted primarily of: (1) advertising revenues; and (2) fees
for referring customers to pricelinemortgage.com for home financing
services.  Other revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2007 increased 65.7%, compared to the same period in
2006, primarily as a result of higher online advertising revenues due to new
advertising partner relationships in 2007.  

Cost of
Revenues and Gross Profit    

53  

Cost of
Revenues   

During the year ended December 31, 2007, cost of
revenues entirely reflect merchant  Name Your
Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded  gross 
with a corresponding cost of revenue while retail transactions are recorded  net 
with no corresponding cost of revenues.  

Cost of
Merchant Revenues   

For the year ended December 31, 2007, cost of
merchant revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of opaque hotel
rooms from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of opaque
airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the federal air transportation tax,
segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale
of airline tickets; and (3) the cost of opaque rental cars from our
suppliers, net of applicable taxes.  Cost
of merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 6.6%,
compared to the same period in 2006, due primarily to the increase in merchant
revenue discussed above.  Merchant
price-disclosed hotel revenues are recorded at their net amounts, which are
amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there are no
associated costs of merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues.  

Cost of
Agency Revenues   

Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount,
which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and
therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues.  

Cost of
Other Revenues   

For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
there were no costs of other revenues.  

Gross Profit   

Total gross profit for the year ended December 31,
2007 increased by 59.4% compared to the same period in 2006, primarily as a
result of increased revenue.  Total gross
margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased
during the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in
2006, because  Name Your Own Price       transactions,
whose revenues are recorded  gross  with a corresponding cost of revenue,
represented a smaller percentage of transactions compared to retail,
price-disclosed transactions which are primarily recorded  net  with no
corresponding cost of revenues.  Gross
profit and gross margin were also positively impacted by the $18.6 million
excise tax refund recorded in merchant revenue in the year ended December 31,
2007 (see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).  Because  Name
Your Own Price       transactions are reported  gross  and retail
transactions are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, we believe that gross
profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our
business.  

54  

Merchant
Gross Profit   

Merchant gross profit consists of merchant revenues
less the cost of merchant revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007,
merchant gross profit increased from the same period in 2006, primarily due to
an increase in merchant revenue. 
Merchant gross margin increased primarily because  Name Your Own Price       transactions,
whose revenues are recorded  gross  with a corresponding cost of revenue,
represented a smaller percentage of transactions in the year ended December 31,
2007, when compared to merchant price-disclosed hotel transactions, which are
recorded  net  with no corresponding cost of revenues.  In addition, merchant gross margin for the
year ended December 31, 2007, was positively affected by the excise tax
refund of $18.6 million included in merchant revenue (see Note 17 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements).  

Agency
Gross Profit   

Agency gross profit consists of
agency revenues, which are recorded net of agency costs, if any.  For the   year ended December 31, 2007, agency gross profit increased over the same
period in 2006, primarily as a result of growth in bookings for retail agency
hotel room nights for our international operations.  

Other
Gross Profit   

During the year ended December 31, 2007, other
gross profit increased from the same period in 2006 primarily as a result of
higher online advertising revenues due to new advertising partner relationships
in 2007.  

55  

Operating Expenses    

Advertising   

Offline advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the
expenses associated with domestic television, radio and print advertising; and (2) agency
fees, the cost for creative talent and production costs for television, radio
and print advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2007, offline
advertising expenses were higher than in the same period in 2006 primarily as a
result of increased television and print advertising related to our  Negotiator 
advertising campaign, partially offset by a decrease in radio advertising.  Online advertising expenses primarily consist
of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate
programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail
campaigns.  For the year ended December 31,
2007, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2006,
primarily due to an increase in online advertising expenses to support
significantly increased retail agency hotel room nights booked by our
international operations, which rely primarily on online advertising, in
particular keyword purchases and payments to affiliate advertisers, to drive
their businesses, partially offset by the elimination of advertising fees paid
under our agreement with Orbitz, which expired on December 31, 2006, and
the impact of higher efficiency requirements (i.e., higher internal  return on investment 
criteria) on other online spend.  

Sales
and Marketing   

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit
card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid
to third-party service providers that operate our call centers; and (3) provisions
for credit card chargebacks.  For the
year ended December 31, 2007, sales and marketing expenses, which are
substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2006,
primarily due to increased gross booking volumes.  

56  

Personnel   

Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our
personnel, including salaries, bonuses, taxes, employee health benefits and
stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2007, personnel
expenses increased over the same period in 2006, primarily due to increased
personnel expenses associated with head count growth of our international
operations and increased employee performance bonus expense.  Stock-based compensation expense was
approximately $16.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $14.9
million, for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

General
and Administrative   

General and administrative expenses consist primarily
of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy
expenses; and (3) personnel related expenses. General and administrative
expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2007, over the same
period during 2006, due to (1) a $55.4 million expense related to our net
cost of a litigation settlement, including related legal fees (see Note 17 to
our Consolidated Financial Statements), (2) a $1.7 million one-time
receipt of certain franchise tax credits in the third quarter 2006, (3) additional
fees for outside professionals and expenses related to pending litigation, and (4) increased
general and administrative expenses, particularly occupancy and personnel
related expenses, associated with the growth of our international operations.  

Information Technology   

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced
data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (2) system
maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other
expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to
outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the increase in
information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2006, was
primarily associated with the growth of our international operations.  

57  

Depreciation
and Amortization   

Depreciation and amortization expenses consist
of:  (1) amortization of intangible
assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of internally developed
and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer equipment; and (4) depreciation
of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures.  For the year ended December 31, 2007,
depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same period in 2006,
primarily as a result of increased depreciation and amortization related to
investment in our international operations.  

Restructuring
Charge, net   

In the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded
a net restructuring charge of approximately $135,000 related to vacated leased
property.  

Interest    

For the   year ended December 31, 2007, interest income on cash and marketable
securities increased over the same period in 2006, primarily due to higher
prevailing interest rates and significantly higher cash balances throughout
2007, and including approximately $3.3 million of interest received on our
excise tax refund.  Interest expense increased
for the year ended December 31, 2007 over the same period in 2006, due primarily to increased average debt
balances in 2007, as well as an increase in prevailing interest rates on the
variable portion of the interest rate swap agreement related to our 1%
Convertible Senior Notes.  

58  

Taxes    

Income tax benefit for the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006 differs from the expected tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate
of 35% primarily because it includes benefits amounting to $47.9 and $28.1
million, respectively, resulting from a reversal of a portion of the valuation
allowance on our deferred tax assets. 
Other items resulting in a difference between our effective tax rate and
the statutory rate include a tax benefit of approximately $3.6 million
resulting from the recognition of foreign capital allowance carryforwards in
2007, the foreign tax benefit of interest expense on intercompany debt and
lower foreign tax rates, partly offset by state income taxes in 2007 and
2006.  In the fourth quarter of 2006, the
Netherlands enacted a reduction in its statutory tax rate from 29.6% to 25.5%, effective
January 1, 2007.  In the third
quarter of 2007, the United Kingdom enacted a reduction in its statutory tax
rate from 30% to 28%, effective April 1, 2008.  We recognized benefits of $1.3 million and
$3.0 million in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
resulting from the impact on deferred taxes of these enacted statutory tax rate
reductions.  Due to our significant net
operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to pay significant U.S. federal
income taxes for the foreseeable future. 
We expect to make cash payments for U.S. alternative minimum tax and for
certain international taxes.  

Equity in Income (Loss) of
Investees and Minority Interests    

Equity in income (loss) of investees and minority
interests for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, represented (1) minority
interests associated with the ownership of priceline.com International that is
held by former shareholders of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited,
including certain European-based managers of that business; and (2) equity
in income (loss) of investees, principally comprised of our pro rata share of
pricelinemortgage.com s net results.  The
change in equity in income of investees and minority interests versus the prior
year was primarily due to an increase in the minority interest in the earnings
of priceline.com International.  Also,
the prior year includes a $1.1 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying
value of our investment in pricelinemortgage.com to its estimated fair value.  

59  

Results of Operations   

Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared to Year Ended December 31,
2005   

Operating Metrics    

Our
financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the
selling activity generated by our travel services.  Specifically, sales of airline tickets, hotel
room nights and rental car days capture the volume of units purchased by our
customers.  Gross Bookings capture the
total dollar value inclusive of taxes and fees of all travel services purchased
by our customers.  

The
number of airline tickets, hotel room nights and rental car days sold through
our websites and the related gross bookings were as follows:  

Gross
bookings increased by 49.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared
to the same period in 2005.  The increase
was driven primarily by an increase of 85.6% in  agency  bookings for the year
ended December 31, 2006, which was primarily attributable to (1) growth
in our European operations, which are substantially comprised of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited, which were acquired in the third quarters of 2005
and 2004, respectively; (2) an increase in the average fare of our retail
ticket service, and (3) the increased sale of retail rental cars.  Merchant gross bookings increased by 8.3% for
the year ended December 31, 2006, over the same period in 2005.  The increase was primarily due to an increase
in merchant gross bookings relating to our domestic retail hotel service, an
increase in the average daily rate of our  Name
Your Own Price       hotel service and an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       rental car days.  

Airline
tickets sold increased by 0.2% for the year ended December 31, 2006, over
the same period in 2005.  The increase in
the number of airline tickets sold in the year ended December 31, 2006,
compared to the same period in 2005, was primarily attributable to an increase
in the sale of retail airline tickets, partially offset by a decrease in the
sale of  Name Your Own Price     airline tickets.  

Hotel room nights sold
increased by 58.6% for the year ended December 31, 2006, over the same
period in 2005.  The increase in the number of hotel room nights sold in
the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, was
primarily due to growth in our hotel room nights sold through (1) our
European operations, which are substantially comprised of Booking.com B.V. and
Booking.com Limited, which were acquired in the third quarters of 2005 and
2004, respectively, and (2) our domestic retail hotel service.  This
increase was partially offset by a decrease in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room nights.  Our retail hotel service benefited from the
enhanced integration of our retail and  Name
Your Own Price       services in the first quarter of
2006.   We believe that the benefit
to our retail hotel service came partially at the expense of sales of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room nights during the
year ended December 31, 2006, as some amount of demand that may otherwise
have been directed to the  Name Your Own
Price       service instead was directed to our retail
hotel service.  

Rental
car days sold increased by 28.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006,
over the same period in 2005, due to increases in sales of both our retail and  Name Your Own Price       rental car services, which benefited from the
launch of enhanced integration of retail and  Name
Your Own Price       services in   

60  

the
first quarter 2006, as well as from the launch of new features in 2005,
including options for one-way destination and off-airport car rentals.  

We
continue to experience a shift in the mix of our airline ticket business from a
business historically focused exclusively on the sale of merchant ( opaque )  Name Your Own Price       travel services to a business
that includes the sale of retail, price-disclosed travel services.  Because merchant  Name Your Own Price       travel
services are reported on a  gross  basis and retail travel services are
primarily recorded on a  net  basis, revenue increases and decreases are
impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of merchant and retail travel
services and, consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important
measure of evaluating growth in our business. 
Additionally, our European operations contributed approximately $182.7 million
to our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, which are primarily
recorded on a  net  basis.  

Merchant Revenues   

Merchant
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased 5.2% compared to
the same period in 2005, primarily due to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       rental car
days,  Name Your Own Price       hotel room nights, and vacation packages.  A substantial portion of the increase was due
to services sold through our agreement with Orbitz, which we entered into on January 1,
2006.  Under our agreement with Orbitz,
we paid fees in exchange for a link on the Orbitz website that directed traffic
to the  Name Your Own Price       service. 
The agreement expired on December 31, 2006.  While the Orbitz agreement provided us with a
good source of traffic, we believe it was likely dilutive in that many of the
customers that we paid Orbitz for may have purchased our travel services
anyway.  While the expiration of the
Orbitz agreement may result in decreased merchant volume in 2007   we estimate
potentially up to approximately 5% of our 2007 merchant volume after taking
into account estimated dilution - it frees up marketing dollars that we may use
in other online channels.  

Agency Revenues   

Agency
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased 116% compared to
the same period in 2005, primarily as a result of (1) growth in our
European operations, which contributed $179 million of agency revenue for the
year ended December 31, 2006, and $67 million of agency revenue for the
year ended December 31, 2005; and (2) increased sales of domestic
retail hotel room nights and retail rental car days.  Results from our European operations are
substantially comprised of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, which were
acquired in the third quarters of 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

61  

Other Revenues   

Other
revenues during the year ended December 31, 2006 consisted primarily of: (1) advertising
revenues; and (2) fees for referring customers to pricelinemortgage.com
for home financing services.  Other
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased 19.7%, compared to
the same period in 2005, primarily as a result of higher online advertising
revenue related to the inclusion of results of operation from our online
advertising company since it was acquired in June 2006.  

Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit    

Cost of Revenues   

During the year ended December 31,
2006, cost of revenues increased 3.9%, compared to the same period in 2005, due
primarily to the fact that merchant revenues increased comparably in the same
period.  Cost of revenues entirely
reflect merchant  Name Your Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded  gross 
with a corresponding cost of revenue while retail transactions are recorded  net 
with no corresponding cost of revenues.  

Cost of Merchant Revenues   

For the year ended December 31,
2006, cost of merchant revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of
opaque hotel rooms from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the
cost of opaque airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the federal air
transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in
connection with the sale of airline tickets; and (3) the cost of opaque
rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes.  Cost of merchant revenues for the year ended December 31,
2006 increased 4.0%, compared to the same period in 2005, due primarily to the
fact that merchant revenues increased comparably in the same period.  Merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues are
recorded at their net amounts, which are amounts received less amounts paid to
suppliers and therefore, there are no associated costs of merchant
price-disclosed hotel revenues.  

62  

Cost of Agency Revenues   

Agency
revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less
amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency
revenues.  For the year ended December 31,
2005, cost of agency revenues consisted exclusively of non-cash amortization
expenses associated with acquisition activity.  

Cost of Other Revenues   

For the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005, there were no costs of other revenues.  

Gross Profit   

Total gross profit for the
year ended December 31, 2006 increased by 49.7% compared to the same
period in 2005, primarily as a result of increased revenue from (1) our
European operations, which are substantially comprised of Booking.com B.V. and
Booking.com Limited, which were acquired in the third quarters of 2005 and
2004, respectively; and (2) increased sales of retail hotel room
nights.  The contribution to gross profit
from airline ticket sales during the year ended December 31, 2006 was
negatively impacted by a decrease in net GDS fees per ticket as compared to the
same period in 2005, which contributed to lower margins on retail ticket sales
in particular. Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of
total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2006, compared
to the same period in 2005, because  Name
Your Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded  gross 
with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of
transactions compared to retail, price-disclosed transactions which are
primarily recorded  net  with no corresponding cost of revenues.  Because  Name
Your Own Price       transactions are reported  gross  and retail
transactions are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, we believe that gross
profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our
business.  

Merchant Gross Profit   

Merchant
gross profit consists of merchant revenues less the cost of merchant revenues.
For the year ended December 31, 2006, merchant gross profit increased from
the same period in 2005, primarily due to an increase in the sale of domestic
merchant price-disclosed hotel room nights and  Name
Your Own Price       rental car days.  The contribution to merchant gross profit
from  Name Your Own Price       airline ticket sales during the year ended December 31,
2006 was negatively impacted by a decrease in net GDS fees per ticket as
compared to the same period in 2005.  A
substantial portion of the increase in merchant gross profit was due to
services sold through our agreement with Orbitz, as discussed above.  Our agreement with Orbitz expired on December 31,
2006.  Merchant gross margin increased
primarily because  Name Your Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded  gross 
with a corresponding   

63  

cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of transactions in
the year ended December 31, 2006, when compared to merchant
price-disclosed hotel transactions, which are recorded  net  with no
corresponding cost of revenues.  

Agency Gross Profit   

Agency
gross profit consists of agency revenues, which are recorded net of agency
costs, if any.  For the   year ended December 31,
2006, agency gross profit increased over
the same period in 2005, primarily as a result of (1) growth in our
European operations, which are substantially comprised of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited, which were
acquired in the third quarters of 2005 and 2004, respectively; and (2) increased
sales of retail hotel room nights and rental car days.  

Other Gross Profit   

During the year ended December 31,
2006, other gross profit increased from the same period in 2005 primarily as a
result of higher online advertising revenues related to including results of
operations from our online advertising company since it was acquired in June 2006.  

Operating Expenses    

Advertising    

Offline
advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated
with domestic television, radio and print advertising; and (2) agency
fees, the cost for creative talent and production costs for television and
radio commercials. For the year ended December 31, 2006, offline
advertising expenses were slightly higher than in the same period in 2005.  Online advertising expenses primarily consist
of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate
programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail
advertisements.  For the year ended December 31,
2006, online advertising expenses increased significantly over the same period
in 2005, primarily due to an increase in online advertising expenses related to
(1) supporting the growth of our European operations, which rely primarily
on online advertising to drive their businesses and (2) an increase in our
domestic online advertising, including fees paid pursuant to our agreement with
Orbitz.  

64  

Sales and Marketing   

Sales
and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing
fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-party
service providers that operate our call centers; and (3) provisions for
credit card chargebacks.  For the year
ended December 31, 2006, sales and marketing expenses, which are
substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2005,
primarily due to increased gross booking volumes.  

Personnel   

Personnel
expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses,
taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year
ended December 31, 2006, personnel expenses increased over the same period
in 2005, primarily due to increased personnel expenses associated with head
count growth of our European operations, which are substantially comprised of Booking.com
B.V. and Booking.com Limited, which were acquired in the third quarters of 2005
and 2004, respectively, increased employee performance bonus expense and an
increase in stock-based compensation due mainly to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) on
January 1, 2006, which requires companies to record non-cash compensation
expense related to stock-based awards granted to employees.  Stock-based compensation expense was
approximately $14.9 million, for the year ended December 31, 2006, and
approximately $4.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

General
and Administrative   

General
and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside
professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) business
insurance. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31,
2006, over the same period during 2005, due to increased general and
administrative expenses associated with the growth of our European operations,
which are substantially comprised of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited,
which   

65  

were acquired in the third quarters of 2005 and 2004, respectively, and
additional fees for outside professionals and expenses related to pending
litigation.  This increase was partially
offset by the one-time receipt of certain franchise tax credits from the state
of Connecticut in the amount of approximately $1.7 million.  

Information
Technology   

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system
maintenance and software license fees; (2) data communications and other
expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (3) payments to
outside contractors. For the year ended December 31, 2006, information
technology expenses decreased domestically from the same period in 2005, in
part due to efficiencies resulting from the integration of Travelweb s
operations.  This decrease was partially
offset by increased information technology expenses associated with our
European operations, which are substantially comprised of Booking.com B.V. and
Booking.com Limited, which were acquired in the third quarters of 2005 and
2004, respectively.  

Depreciation and Amortization   

Depreciation
and amortization expenses consist of:  (1) amortization
of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of
internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer
equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office
equipment and furniture and fixtures. 
For the year ended December 31, 2006, depreciation and amortization
expense increased from the same period in 2005, primarily as a result of
increased non-cash acquisition related amortization expenses associated with
our European operations, which are substantially comprised of Booking.com B.V.
and Booking.com Limited, which were acquired in the third quarters of 2005 and
2004, respectively.  

66  

Restructuring Charge, net   

In
the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded a restructuring charge of
approximately $135,000 related to vacated leased property.  In the year ended December 31, 2005, we
recorded a net restructuring charge of approximately $1.7 million, consisting
of a $2 million restructuring charge related to vacated leased property and a
$336,000 restructuring reversal related to estimated costs to complete certain
restructuring activities in Europe.  

Interest    

For
the  year ended December 31,
2006, interest income on cash and marketable
securities increased over the same period in 2005, primarily due to higher
prevailing interest rates and significantly higher cash balances in the fourth
quarter of 2006.  Interest expense
increased for the year ended December 31, 2006 over the same period in 2005, due primarily to an
increase in debt balances in 2006, as well as an increase in prevailing
interest rates on the variable portion of the interest rate swap agreement
related to our 1% Convertible Senior Notes. 

Taxes    

Income
tax benefit for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 differs from
the expected tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% because it includes
benefits amounting to $28.1 million and $170.5 million, respectively, resulting
from a reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax
assets.  Other items resulting in a
difference between our effective tax rate and the statutory rate include the
foreign tax benefit of interest expense on intercompany debt, and lower foreign
tax rates, partly offset by state income taxes. 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Netherlands enacted a reduction in
its statutory tax rate from 29.6% to 25.5%, effective January 1,
2007.  We recognized a benefit of $3.0
million in the fourth quarter of 2006 resulting from the impact on deferred
taxes of the Netherlands tax rate reduction. 
Due to our significant net operating loss carryforwards, we do not
expect to pay significant cash taxes on our U.S. federal taxable income tax for
the foreseeable future.  We expect to
make cash payments for U.S. alternative minimum tax and for certain
international taxes.  

67  

Equity in Income (Loss) of Investees and
Minority Interests    

Equity
in income (loss) of investees and minority interests for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005, represented (1) minority interests associated with the
ownership of priceline.com International that is held by certain managers of
that business; and (2) equity in income (loss) of investees, principally
comprised of our pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s net results.  The change in equity in income of investees
and minority interests versus the prior year was primarily due to an increase
in the minority interest in the earnings of priceline.com International and a
decrease in earnings of and an impairment charge recorded for our investment in
pricelinemortgage.com.  Due to recent
losses incurred by pricelinemortgage.com, we reviewed the carrying value of our
investment for impairment.  Based upon
recent operating results and future projected results, we determined that our
investment was impaired on an other-than-temporary basis.  Accordingly, in the third quarter, we
recognized a charge of $1.1 million to reduce the carrying value of our equity
investment in pricelinemortgage.com to its estimated fair value.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

The
following discussion gives effect to the restatement as discussed in
Note 21 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31,
2007, we had $507.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments.  We generally invest excess
cash to make such funds readily available for operating purposes.  Cash equivalents and short-term investments
are primarily comprised of highly liquid, high quality, investment grade debt
instruments.  

All
of our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front
from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent
date.  We therefore tend to experience
significant swings in supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our
cost of revenue during the last few weeks of every quarter.  This can cause volatility in working capital
levels and impact cash balances more or less than our operating income would
indicate.  

Net
cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31,
2007, was $156.0 million, resulting from net income of $157.1 million, non-cash
items not affecting 2007 cash flows of $18.9 million offset by $19.9 million of
negative changes in working capital.  Net
income includes a charge of $55.4 million paid to settle litigation, $21.9
million received in excise tax refunds and related interest (see Note 17 to our
Consolidated financial Statements for further information regarding the
litigation settlement and excise tax refund) and a $1.2 million favorable
litigation settlement related to credit card processing fees.  The changes in working capital for the year
ended December 31, 2007, were primarily related to a $33.4 million
increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets,
partially offset by a $9.8 million increase in accounts payable, accrued
expenses and other current liabilities. 
The increases in accounts receivable and accounts payable are primarily
due to significant revenue growth for our international operations.  Accrued expenses and other current
liabilities increased primarily due to a $5.3 million increase in bonus
accruals and a $3.6 million increase in online advertising accruals.  We do not believe there has been any
significant change in credit risk regarding our accounts receivable.  Non-cash items were primarily associated with
deferred income tax benefit, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and
amortization, primarily related to acquisition-related intangible assets.  The deferred income tax benefit resulted
primarily from the $47.9 million non-cash reversal of a portion of our deferred
income tax valuation allowance, as well as a $3.6 million non-recurring income
tax benefit resulting from the recognition of foreign capital allowance carry
forwards in the fourth quarter   

68  

of
2007.  Net cash provided by operating
activities for the year ended December 31, 2006, was $112.1 million,
resulting from net income of $74.5 million, non-cash items not affecting 2006
cash flows of $32.7 million and $4.9 million of positive changes in working
capital. The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31,
2006, were primarily related to a $27.4 million increase in accounts payable,
accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by a $21.2
million increase in accounts receivable. The increases in accounts receivable
and accounts payable were primarily due to an increase in merchant bookings in
the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. Accrued
expenses and other current liabilities increased primarily due to an $8.2
million increase in bonus accruals and a $5.0 million increase in on-line
advertising accruals. Non-cash items were primarily associated with deferred
income tax benefit, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and
amortization, primarily related to intangible assets acquired in our
acquisitions of Travelweb, Booking.com Limited and Booking.com B.V. The
non-cash deferred income tax benefit resulted primarily from the $28.1 million
reversal of a portion of our deferred income tax valuation allowance.  

Net
cash used in investing activities was $221.5 million for the year ended December 31,
2007.  Investing activities were affected
by $116.1 million of net purchases of investments for the year ended December 31,
2007, and the purchase of $76.1 million of stock in priceline.com
International held by minority interest shareholders.  In addition, in the year ended December 31,
2007, we invested $14.6 million, net of cash acquired, in acquisitions, the
substantial majority of which related to the Agoda Companies.  Net cash provided by investing activities was
$49.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.  Investing activities for the year ended
December 31, 2006 were affected by $64.9 million of net redemptions of
short-term investments, partially offset by the purchase of $19.8 million
of stock in priceline.com International held by minority interest shareholders.
Additionally, restricted cash decreased by $19.9 million in 2006 as we are no
longer required to collateralize outstanding letters of credit with restricted
cash balances. Cash invested in purchases of property and equipment was $15.9
million and $12.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  

Net
cash provided by financing activities was approximately $19.4   million for the
year ended December 31, 2007.  The
cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31,
2007 was primarily related to $19.8 million of proceeds from the exercise
of employee stock options and $3.6 million of excess tax benefits from
stock-based compensation, partially offset by $2.6 million of treasury
stock purchases and $1.3 million of debt issuance costs.  Net cash provided by financing activities was
approximately $177.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2006.  The cash provided by financing
activities during the year ended December 31, 2006 was primarily related
to the issuance of $345 million of senior convertible notes and $14.1 million
of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, offset by $135.8
million of treasury stock purchases, $9.1 million of debt issuance costs and $37.4 million
for the purchase of conversion spread hedges.  

The
following table represents the Company s material contractual obligations and
commitments as of December 31, 2007 (see Note 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements):  

(1)                   At December 31, 2007 the Company s
convertible debt is a current liability because the contingent conversion
thresholds on each of the Notes were exceeded. 
As a result, the Notes are convertible at the option of the holder.  See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  Also includes interest
payable on the Notes thru 2008.  

  (2)                   Assumes holders of minority interests put
their shares to us at the earliest possible date based upon the estimated fair
value at December 31, 2007 (see Note 15 for terms of put provisions).  

69  

As
more fully discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, after
giving effect to the October 2007 repurchase of priceline.com
International shares, the total minority interest in priceline.com
International on a fully diluted basis is approximately 3.3% at December 31,
2007.  The aggregate fair value of the
minority interest in priceline.com International subject to future puts and
calls is estimated to be approximately $95 million at December 31, 2007, including unvested restricted
stock and restricted stock units.  We
expect the future fair value of the minority interest to grow based upon
expected continued strong performance of the international business.  

Based
upon the closing price of our common stock during the measurement periods
provided for by our convertible debt during the three months ended December 31,
2007, the contingent conversion thresholds on each of our convertible senior
note issues were exceeded.  As a result,
all of our outstanding notes (aggregate principal amount $570 million) are
convertible at the option of the holder as of December 31, 2007 and,
accordingly, have been classified as a current liability in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of that date.  While
many factors contribute to the likelihood that the holders of the notes will
elect to convert all or a portion of the notes, as the price of our common
stock increases, the likelihood of conversion also increases.  If holders elect to convert, we would be
required to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash and the conversion
premium in cash or shares of common stock at our option.  We would likely fund the repayment with
existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments (totaling
approximately $507.9 million at December 31, 2007), borrowings under our
revolving credit facility, common stock issuances and/or additional borrowings.  

In
September 2007, we entered into a $175 million five-year revolving credit
facility with a group of lenders, which is secured, subject to certain
exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on substantially all of our
assets and related intangible assets located in the United States.  In
addition, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by
substantially all of the assets and related intangible assets of our material
direct and indirect domestic and foreign subsidiaries.  Borrowings under the revolving credit
facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to the
greater of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association s prime lending
rate and (b) the federal funds rate plus   of 1%, plus an applicable
margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%; or at an adjusted LIBOR for the
interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin
ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%.  Undrawn
balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to
commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%.  

The
revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50 million of
letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as
swingline loans, which are available in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling
and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The Company
may request that an additional $100 million be added to the revolving
credit facility or to enter into one or more tranches of additional term loans.
The proceeds of loans made under the facility could be used for working capital
or general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2007, there were no
borrowings outstanding under the facility and the Company has issued
approximately $14.7 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit
facility.  

We
believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient
to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations
through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or
thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from
operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts
and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital
expenditures and scale back the scope of our  

70  

business
plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future
financial condition or results of operations. If additional funds were raised
through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then
current stockholders would be diluted. 
There are no assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from
operations in the future, that revenue growth or sustained profitability will
be realized or that future borrowings or equity sales will be available in
amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our
strategies or repay our indebtedness.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.   

As
of December 31, 2007, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements
that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material
effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital
expenditures or capital resources.  

Item
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk      

We
manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk through
internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate,
through the use of derivative financial instruments. We use an interest rate
swap agreement to manage interest risk and forward contracts to manage foreign
currency risk.  

The
objective of our policies is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow
and fair value exposures resulting from possible future adverse fluctuations in
rates. We evaluate our exposure to market risk by assessing the anticipated
near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange
rates. This evaluation includes the review of leading market indicators,
discussions with financial analysts and investment bankers regarding current
and future economic conditions and the review of market projections as to
expected future rates. We utilize this information to determine our own
investment strategies as well as to determine if the use of derivative
financial instruments is appropriate to mitigate any potential future market
exposure that we may face. Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative
instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for
which there are no underlying exposures. We do not use financial instruments for
trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.  

We
did not experience any material changes in interest rate exposures during the
year ended December 31, 2007.  Based upon economic conditions and
leading market indicators at December 31, 2007, we do not foresee a
significant adverse change in interest rates in the near future.  

As of
December 31, 2007, the carrying value of our debt is approximately $570
million.  We estimate that the fair
market value of such debt was approximately $1.66 billion as of December 31,
2007.  

As of December 31, 2007, we held an interest rate swap agreement
on $45 million notional value of our fixed rate debt.  The fair value cost
to terminate this swap as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $0.1
million.  A 10% adverse fluctuation in
the 3-month LIBOR rate as of December 31, 2007, would increase the cost to
terminate the interest rate swap by approximately $0.1 million.  Any increase or decrease in the fair value of
the Company s interest rate sensitive derivative instrument would be
substantially offset by a corresponding decrease or increase in the fair value
of the hedged underlying debt.  

As a result of the acquisitions of our European and Asian operations,
we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the
United States through subsidiaries with functional currencies other then the
U.S. dollar (primarily Euros and British Pounds).  As a result, we face exposure to adverse
movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our
international operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars
upon consolidation.  If the
U.S. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these
foreign-currency-denominated balances will   

71  

result in increased net assets, net revenues, operating expenses, and
net income or loss.  Similarly, our net
assets, net revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease
if the U.S. dollar strengthens against local currency. Additionally,
foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies
other than the functional currency result in gains and losses that are
reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  Our international operations are subject to
risks typical of international business, including, but not limited to,
differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax
structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility.  

From
time to time, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the
impact of short-term foreign currency fluctuations on our consolidated
operating results.  As of December 31,
2007, contracts with notional values of 16.0 million Euros and 3.7 million
British Pounds were outstanding to minimize the impact of short-term foreign
currency fluctuations on consolidated operating results.  As of December 31, 2006, contracts with
notional values of 17.6 million Euros were outstanding.  Foreign exchange gains (losses) from forward
contracts in the amount of ($3.0 million), ($1.5 million) and $0.3 million were
recorded in other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.  We may
enter into additional forward contracts or other economic hedges in the future.  

Additionally, fixed rate investments are subject to unrealized gains
and losses due to interest rate volatility. 
To the extent that changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates
affect general economic conditions, priceline.com would also be affected by
such changes.  

Item 8. 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      

The following Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and the report of our independent
registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
(See Item 15).  

Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006; Consolidated Statements
of Operations, Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Cash Flows for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005; Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

Item
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      

None.  

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures      

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures   . Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures,
as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this
evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the
end of the period covered by this annual report.  

Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.     Our management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with
the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer
and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework in  Internal Control - Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.  

72  

Based on our evaluation, our
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of December 31, 2007. We excluded from our assessment the
internal control over financial reporting at the Agoda Companies, which were
acquired on November 6, 2007 and whose financial statements reflect total
assets and revenues constituting approximately 2% and 1%, respectively, of the
related Consolidated Financial Statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31,
2007.  

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements.  Projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Deloitte   Touche LLP,
the independent registered public accounting firm that also audited the Company s
consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
audited the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2007, and issued their related attestation report which is included herein.  

Changes in
Internal Controls.     No change in our internal
control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f))
occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 that materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal
control over financial reporting.  

In
November 2007, we acquired the Agoda Companies, and as a result of that
acquisition, we have undertaken a review of their internal controls and intend
to make changes, if necessary, that we believe to be appropriate to those
internal controls as we integrate its business with ours. As we further
integrate Agoda s business, we will continue to review its internal controls
and may take further steps to ensure that its internal controls are effective
and integrated appropriately.  

Item 9B.
Other Information      

None.  

73  

PART III     

Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance      

Information
required by Part III, Item 10, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2007, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 11.
Executive Compensation      

Information
required by Part III, Item 11, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2007, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters      

Information
required by Part III, Item 12, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2007, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence      

Information
required by Part III, Item 13, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2007, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services      

Information
required by Part III, Item 14, will be included in or Proxy Statement
relating to our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the SEC
within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007,
and is incorporated herein by reference.  

74  

PART IV     

Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.      

(a)                                      List of
Documents Filed as a Part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  

The
following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the report of
our independent registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006; and the related
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Cash
Flows for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005; Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements; and Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm.  

(b)                                     Exhibits  

The
exhibits listed below are filed as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Exhibit   

Number   

Description   

2.1(x)  

Share Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated
  July 14, 2005 by and between the Registrant, ACME Limited and Blue Sky
  Investments B.V.  

2.2(aa)  

Articles of Association of priceline.com
  International Limited, as amended.  

3.1(a)  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
  the Registrant.  

3.2(b)  

Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated
  Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant  

3.3(a)  

By-Laws of the Registrant.  

4.1  

Reference is hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and
  3.3.  

4.2(a)  

Specimen Certificate for Registrant s Common Stock.  

4.3(a)  

Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement,
  dated as of December 8, 1998, among the Registrant and certain
  stockholders of the Registrant.  

4.4(b)  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
  August 1, 2003, among the Registrant and the initial purchasers named
  therein.  

4.5(b)  

Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2003, between
  the Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as
  Trustee (including the form of note contained therein).  

4.6(b)  

Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 22,
  2003, between the Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust
  Company, as Trustee.  

4.7(d)  

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
  December 13, 2004, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.8(c)  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
  June 28, 2004, among priceline.com Incorporated and the initial
  purchasers named therein.  

4.9(c)  

Indenture, dated as of June 28, 2004, between
  the Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as
  Trustee (including the form of note contained therein).  

4.10(d)  

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
  December 13, 2004, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.11(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights
  of Series A Convertible Redeemable PIK Preferred Stock of the
  Registrant.  

4.12(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights
  of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.13(gg)  

Indenture, dated as of September 27, 2006,
  between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust
  Company, as Trustee.  

4.14(gg)  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
  September 27, 2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and Goldman
  Sachs   Co., as representative of the Initial Purchasers.  

4.15(ii)  

Indenture relating to New 1.00% Notes, dated as of
  November 6, 2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock
  Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.16(ii)  

Indenture relating to New 2.25% Notes, dated as of
  November 6, 2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock
  Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee.  

10.1(a)+  

1997 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant.  

10.2(e)+  

1999 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant, as amended.  

75  

10.3(f)+  

Priceline.com 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan.  

10.4(e)+  

Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement.  

10.5(e)+  

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for
  restricted stock grants to Board of Directors.  

10.6(g)+  

Form of Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.).  

10.7(g)+  

Form of Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.).  

10.8(g)+  

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement with
  covenants (U.S.).  

10.9(g)+  

Employment Agreement, dated February 7, 2005,
  by and between Jeffery H. Boyd and the Registrant.  

10.10(g)+  

Restricted Stock Agreement, dated February 1,
  2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the Registrant.  

10.12(f)+  

Employment Agreement, dated November 20, 2000,
  between the Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.13(j)+  

Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated
  June 15, 2001, by and between the Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.14(h)+  

Stock Option and Restricted Stock Agreement, dated
  November 20, 2000, by and between the Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.15(g)+  

Restricted Stock Agreement, dated February 1,
  2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and the Registrant.  

10.16(h)+  

Employment Agreement, dated December 20, 2000,
  by and between the Registrant and Ronald Rose.  

10.17(k)+  

Employment Agreement, dated February 8, 2006,
  by and between the Registrant and Peter J. Millones.  

10.18(i)+  

Employment Letter Agreement, dated January 2,
  2002, by and between the Registrant and Brett Keller.  

10.19(g)+  

Employment Agreement, dated February 7, 2005, by
  and between the Registrant and Chris Soder.  

10.20(a)*  

General Agreement, dated August 31, 1998, by
  and among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air
  Lines, Inc.  

10.21(a)*  

Airline Participation Agreement, dated
  August 31, 1998, by and among the Registrant, Priceline
  Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.22(a)*  

Amendment to the Airline Participation Agreement and
  the General Agreement, dated December 31, 1998, between and among the
  Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.23(l)  

Letter Agreement, dated July 16, 1999, between
  the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.24(m)  

Master Agreement, dated November 17, 1999,
  between the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.25(m)  

Amendment to the Airline Participation Agreement and
  the General Agreement, dated November 17, 1999, by and among the
  Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.26(n)  

Stockholder Agreement, dated February 6, 2001,
  between the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.27(n)  

Warrant Agreement, dated February 6, 2001, by
  and between the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.28(o)*  

Formation and Funding Agreement, dated as of
  March 17, 2000, by and between the Registrant and Alliance Partners,
  L.P.  

10.29(p)  

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of
  February 15, 2001, among the Registrant, Prime Pro Group Limited and
  Forthcoming Era Limited.  

10.30(p)  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
  February 15, 2001, among the Registrant, Prime Pro Group Limited and
  Forthcoming Era Limited.  

10.31(q)  

Stockholders  Agreement by and among the Registrant,
  Prime Pro Group Limited, Forthcoming Era Limited, Potton Resources Limited
  and Ultimate Pioneer Limited, dated as of June 5, 2001.  

10.32(i)  

Subscriber Entity Agreement, dated October 1,
  2001, by and between Worldspan, L.P. and the Registrant.  

10.33(i)  

Amendment to the Worldspan, L.P. Subscriber
  Agreement, dated October 1, 2001, by and between Worldspan, L.P. and the
  Registrant.  

10.34(r)*  

Second Amendment to the Worldspan Subscriber Entity
  Agreement, dated April 1, 2003, by and between the Registrant and
  Worldspan, L.P.  

10.35(t)  

Restructuring Agreement, dated as of October 3,
  2003, between Hutchison-Priceline Limited, Trio Happiness Limited and PCLN
  Asia, Inc.  

10.36(t)  

Amended and Restated Securityholders  Agreement,
  dated as of October 3, 2003, among Hutchison-Priceline Limited, PCLN
  Asia, Inc. and Trio Happiness Limited.  

10.37(t)  

Master Agreement, dated as of November 20,
  2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.38(t)  

Schedule to the Master Agreement, dated as of
  November 20, 2003 between Credit Suisse First Boston International and
  the Registrant.  

76  

10.39(t)  

Letter Agreement, dated November 26, 2003,
  between Credit Suisse First Boston International and pricleine.com
  Incorporated.  

10.40(t)  

Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of
  May 3, 2004, between Lowestfare.com Incorporated, Hilton Electronic
  Distribution Systems, LLC, HT-HDS, Inc., MI Distribution, LLC, Starwood
  Resventure LLC, Pegasus Business Intelligence, LP and Travelweb LLC.  

10.41(v)  

Sale and Purchase Agreement dated September 21,
  2004 by and among Priceline.com Holdco U.K. Limited and the security holders
  of Active Hotels Limited listed therein.  

10.42(k)+  

Form of priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus
  Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for Non-Employee Directors.  

10.43(y)+  

Stock Option Grant Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna.  

10.44(y)+  

Indemnification Agreement, dated June 2, 2005,
  by and between the Registrant and Marshall Loeb.  

10.45(z)+  

Employment Agreement, dated September 21, 2004,
  by and between Andrew J. Phillipps and Active Hotels Limited.  

10.46(z)+  

Subscription Letter for Purchased Ordinary Shares of
  Active Hotels Limited, dated September 21, 2004, with Andrew J.
  Phillipps.  

10.47(z)+  

Subscription Letter for Granted Ordinary Shares of
  Active Hotels Limited, dated September 21, 2004, with Andrew J.
  Phillipps.  

10.48(z)+  

Terms and Conditions of Participation in the
  priceline.com International Limited Management Incentive Plan, dated
  July 14, 2005, by and between Andrew J. Phillipps and priceline.com
  International Limited.  

10.49(bb)+  

Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and
  between the Registrant and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.50(bb)+  

Restricted Stock Grant Agreement, dated
  October 19, 2005, reflecting grant of restricted stock to Daniel J.
  Finnegan.  

10.51(bb)+  

Part-Time Employment and Transition Agreement, dated
  October 20, 2005, by and between the Registrant and Thomas P. D Angelo.  

10.52(cc)+  

Employment Agreement, dated July 14, 2005
  between Bookings Europe B.V. and Stef Norden.  

10.53(cc)+  

Form of Registrant s 1999 Omnibus Plan Award
  Agreement   Restricted Stock Units for Employees in the Netherlands.  

10.54(dd)+  

Form of Performance Share Agreement under the
  priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan.  

10.55(ee)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated September 5,
  2006, among priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on
  Schedule II thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.56(ff)  

Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 21,
  2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as
  representative of the Initial Purchasers.  

10.57(ff)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call
  Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com
  Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.58(ff)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call
  Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com
  Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.59(ff)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call
  Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith
  Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21,
  2006.  

10.60(ff)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call
  Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith
  Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21,
  2006.  

10.61(hh)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to
  Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between
  Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call
  Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com
  Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.62(hh)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to
  Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between
  Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com
  Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year
  Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
  Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as
  of September 21, 2006.  

10.63(jj)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated December 4, 2006,
  among priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on Schedule
  II thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.64(kk)+  

Priceline.com Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated
  as of February 20, 2007.  

10.65(ll)  

Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement between P.
  Warren Ross, Thomas Linton, and John Anderson and the class and priceline.com
  Incorporated, dated as of May 3, 2007.  

10.66(mm)  

Credit Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007
  among priceline.com Incorporated, RBC citizens, National Association, and
  Bank of Scotland plc as co-documentation Agents, bank of America, N.A. as
  syndication Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as
  Administrative Agent.  

77  

10.67(mm)  

Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of
  September 26, 2007 by and among priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan
  Chase Bank, National Association.  

10.68(mm)  

Guaranty dated as of September 26, 2007 by each
  of the subsidiaries of priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
  National Association.  

10.69*  

Equity Purchase Agreement by and among priceline.com
  Mauritius Co. Ltd, priceline.com Incorporated and the shareholders of Agoda
  Company Ltd. and members of AGIP LLC dated November 6, 2007.  

10.70(nn)+  

Performance share unit agreement dated
  December 1, 2007.  

12.1  

Calculation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

14(t)  

Priceline.com Incorporated Code of Business Conduct
  and Ethics.  

21  

List of Subsidiaries.  

23.1  

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP.  

24.1  

Power of Attorney (included in the Signature Page).  

31.1  

Certificate of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to
  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  

Certificate of Robert J. Mylod Jr., pursuant to
  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1(w)  

Certification of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to
  Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and
  (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code).  

32.2(w)  

Certification of Robert J. Mylod Jr., pursuant to Section 906
  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of
  Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code).  

78  

Signatures     

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED  

By:  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Title:  

Chief Executive Officer  

Date:  

March 3, 2008  

Power of
Attorney   

KNOW
ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below
constitutes and appoints Jeffery H. Boyd, Robert J. Mylod Jr. and Peter J.
Millones, and each of them severally, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact
with power of substitution and resubstitution to sign in his or her name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all things and execute any
and all instruments that such attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules, regulations and requirements
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with this Annual
Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments hereto, as fully and for
all intents and purposes as he or she might do or could do in person, and
hereby ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting
alone, and his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/ Ralph M. Bahna  

Chairman  

March 3, 2008  

Ralph M. Bahna  

and Director  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

President, Chief Executive Officer and  

March 3, 2008  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Director (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ Daniel J. Finnegan  

Chief Accounting Officer and Controller  

March 3, 2008  

Daniel J. Finnegan  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ Robert J. Mylod Jr.  

Chief Financial Officer  

March 3, 2008  

Robert J. Mylod Jr.  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

79  

80  

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

81  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  

  priceline.com
Incorporated  

  Norwalk,
Connecticut  

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of priceline.com
Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2007.  We also
have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2007, based on criteria established in  Internal Control 
   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  As described in   Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   management excluded from its
assessment the internal control over financial reporting of the Agoda Companies
which were acquired on November 6, 2007 and whose financial statements
constitute 3% and 2% of net and total assets, respectively, 1% of revenues and
(1%) of net income of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2007. Accordingly, our audit did not
include the internal control over financial reporting at the Agoda Companies.
The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
appearing in Item 9A.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an
opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audits.  

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting
was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.  

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by,
or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by
the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis.  Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over
financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls
may   

82  

become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of priceline.com
Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

As
discussed in Note 2, effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
Statement of Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based
Payment .  

As
discussed in Note 21, the 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements have
been restated.  

/s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

Stamford,
Connecticut  

  March
2, 2008  

83  

priceline.com
Incorporated     

   CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS   

   (In thousands, except share and per share data)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

84  

priceline.com
Incorporated     

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS   

   (In
thousands, except per share data)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  

85  

priceline.com Incorporated     

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

   FOR THE
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (In thousands)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

86  

Priceline.com Incorporated     

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

   (In
thousands)   

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  

87  

PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED  

  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

1.                                           BUSINESS DESCRIPTION  

Priceline.com
Incorporated ( priceline.com,  or the  Company ) is a leading online travel
company that offers its customers a broad range of travel services, including
the opportunity to purchase airline tickets, hotel rooms, car rentals, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. 
The Company s unique  Name Your Own
Price     system   which allows its customers to make offers
for travel services at prices they set   enables its customers to use the
Internet to save money while enabling sellers, which include many of the major
domestic airline, hotel and rental car companies, to generate revenue.  The Company also offers its customers the
ability to purchase travel services in a more traditional, price-disclosed
manner.  

2.                                           SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Basis of Presentation      The Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries
and its 96.7%-owned subsidiary, priceline.com International Ltd. ( priceline.com
International ), which wholly owns priceline.com Europe Holdings N. V. ( priceline.com
Europe Holdings ), Booking.com Limited and Booking.com B.V.  All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in affiliates
in which the Company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise
significant influence, are accounted for by the equity method.  

Use of Estimates      The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements
and footnotes thereto.  Actual results
may differ from those estimates.  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments      The Company s
financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred merchant
bookings, are carried at cost which approximates their fair value because of
the short-term nature of these financial instruments.  As of December 31, 2007, the estimated
fair value of the Company s outstanding Convertible Senior Notes was
approximately $1.66 billion.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents      The Company invests excess
cash primarily in money market accounts and short-term commercial paper. All
highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less are
considered cash equivalents.  

Investments      The Company generally
invests excess cash in short-term investment grade fixed income
securities.  In accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 115,  Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,  the Company has classified
its investments as available-for-sale. 
These securities are carried at estimated fair market value with the
aggregate unrealized gains and losses related to these investments, net of taxes,
reflected as a part of accumulated other comprehensive income within
stockholders  equity.  

The
fair value of the investments is based on the specific quoted market price of
the securities at the Consolidated Balance Sheet dates.  Investments are considered to be impaired
when a decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary.  Once a decline in fair value is determined to
be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis
in the investment is established. The marketable securities are presented as
current assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, if they are
available to meet the short-term working capital needs of the Company.
Investments with a maturity date greater than one year from the balance sheet
date are classified as long-term investments.  

88  

Restricted Cash      Restricted cash at December 31,
2007 and 2006 collateralizes the counterparty to the interest rate hedge
agreement in connection with the Company s 1% Convertible Senior Notes and
certain landlords that lease the Company office space.  

Property and Equipment      Property and equipment are
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and
amortization of property and equipment is computed on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, when applicable, the life of
the lease, whichever is shorter.  

Goodwill      The Company accounts for
acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which requires that
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of
acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price,
including related transaction costs, over the estimated fair values of the net
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
The Company s Consolidated Financial Statements and results of
operations reflect an acquired business starting at the date of the
acquisition.  

Goodwill
is reviewed at least annually for impairment, or earlier if there is indication
of impairment, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets.  SFAS 142 also requires the Company to
compare the fair value of the acquired business to its carrying amount on an
annual basis to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the
fair value of the acquired business is less than its carrying value, an
impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill
is less than its carrying value. Fair values for acquired businesses are determined
based on discounted cash flows, market multiples or appraised values.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangible Assets      The Company
reviews long-lived assets and intangible assets for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
not be recoverable. An asset is considered to be impaired when the sum of the
undiscounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset
and its eventual disposition exceeds its carrying amount. The amount of
impairment loss, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the
asset over the present value of estimated future cash flows using a discount
rate commensurate with the risks involved.  

Software Capitalization      Certain direct development
costs associated with internal-use software are capitalized and include
external direct costs of services and payroll costs for employees devoting time
to the software projects principally related to software coding, designing
system interfaces and installation and testing of the software. These costs are
recorded as fixed assets and are amortized over a period not to exceed three
years beginning when the asset is substantially ready for use. Costs incurred
during the preliminary project stage, as well as maintenance and training
costs, are expensed as incurred.  

Merchant
Revenues and Cost of Merchant Revenues   

Name Your
Own Price           Services : 
Merchant revenues and related cost of revenues are derived from
transactions where priceline.com is the merchant of record and, among other
things, selects suppliers and determines the price it will accept from the
customer.  The Company recognizes such
revenues and costs if and when it fulfills the customer s non-refundable offer.
Merchant revenues and cost of merchant revenues include the selling price and
cost, respectively, of the travel services and are reported on a gross
basis.  In very limited circumstances,
priceline.com makes certain customer accommodations to satisfy disputes and
complaints.  The Company accrues for such
estimated losses and classifies the resulting expense as adjustments to
merchant revenue and cost of merchant revenues.    Pursuant to the
terms of the Company s hotel service, its hotel suppliers are permitted to bill
the Company for the underlying cost of the service during a specified period of
time.  In the event that the Company is
not billed by its hotel supplier within the specified time period, the Company
reduces its cost of revenues by the unbilled amounts.  

89  

Merchant
Price-Disclosed Hotel Service   :  Merchant revenues for the Company s   merchant
price-disclosed   hotel service are derived from transactions where
its customers purchase hotel rooms from hotel suppliers at disclosed rates
which are subject to contractual arrangements. 
Charges are billed to customers at the time of booking and are included
in Deferred Merchant Bookings until the customer completes his or her stay.
Such amounts are generally refundable upon cancellation prior to stay, subject
to cancellation penalties in certain cases. Merchant revenues and accounts
payable to the hotel supplier are recognized at the conclusion of the customer s
stay at the hotel. The Company records the difference between the selling price
and the cost of the hotel room as merchant revenue.  

Agency Revenues and Cost of Agency Revenues   

Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where the
Company is not the merchant of record and where the prices of the services sold
are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions,
customer processing fees and global distribution system ( GDS ) reservation
booking fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any
associated cost of revenue. Such revenues are recognized by the Company when
the customers complete their travel.  

Advertising   - Offline        Advertising-offline
expenses are comprised primarily of costs of television, radio and newspaper
advertising, agency fees, creative talent and production cost for television
and radio commercials.  The Company expenses the production costs of
advertising the first time the advertising takes place.  

Advertising   - Online           Advertising-online expenses consist primarily of keyword searches,
affiliate programs, banners, pop-ups, and email advertisements and are
recognized as expense as the advertisements take place.  

Sales and Marketing      Sales and marketing
expenses are comprised primarily of credit card processing fees, fees paid to
third-party service providers that operate the Company s call centers,
provisions for credit card charge-backs and provisions for uncollectible
commissions, all of which are expensed as incurred.  

Personnel         Personnel expenses consist of compensation to the Company s
personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health
insurance and stock based compensation. 
Included in accrued expenses were accrued compensation expenses of $19.8
million and $14.3 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Information Technology      Information technology
expenses are comprised primarily of outsourced data center costs, system
maintenance and software license fees, data communications and other expenses
associated with operating the Company s Internet sites and payments to outside
contractors. Such costs are expensed as incurred.  

Stock-Based Compensation      In December 2004,
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (Revised 2004),
Share-Based Payment ( SFAS 123(R) ) was issued. SFAS 123(R) is a revision
of SFAS No. 123, as amended, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ( SFAS
123 ). SFAS 123(R) eliminated the alternative to use the intrinsic value
method of accounting that was provided in SFAS 123, which generally resulted in
no compensation expense recorded in the financial statements related to the
issuance of stock options. SFAS 123(R) requires that the cost resulting
from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial
statements. SFAS 123(R) established fair value as the measurement
objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires
companies to apply a fair value based measurement method in accounting for
share-based payment transactions with employees.  Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company
accounted for stock awards and stock option grants using the intrinsic value
method. Compensation expense relating to restricted stock and restricted stock   

90  

unit
grants was recognized over the period during which the employee rendered
service to the Company necessary to earn the award, at fair value on date of
grant.  

Effective
January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified
prospective method. Under this transition method, compensation cost recognized
in the year ended December 31, 2006, includes amounts of: (a) compensation
cost of all share-based awards granted to employees prior to, but unvested as
of, January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in
accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123, net of estimated
forfeitures, and (b) compensation cost for all stock-based awards granted
subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with the new provisions of SFAS 123(R). In accordance
with the modified prospective method, results for prior periods have not been
restated.   The Company determined the
excess tax benefits available as of the adoption date for use in offsetting
future tax shortfalls using the alternative transition method of FASB Staff
Position 123(R)-3. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) resulted in an increase in
net earnings attributable to the cumulative effect of this accounting change
caused by SFAS 123(R) s requirement to apply an estimated forfeiture rate to
unvested awards.  The Company previously
recorded forfeitures when they occurred. The cumulative effect of accounting
change as of January 1, 2006 totaled approximately $211,000 ($131,000 net
of related tax effect) and was recorded in personnel expense for the year ended
December 31, 2006 since its impact on net income and net income per share
was not significant. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), deferred
compensation related to restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards was
classified as a separate component of stockholders  equity. In accordance with
the provisions of SFAS 123(R), on January 1, 2006, the balance in deferred
compensation was reclassified to additional paid-in capital.  

The
fair value of restricted stock, performance share units and restricted stock
units is determined based on the number of units or shares, as applicable,
granted and the quoted price of the Company s common stock as of the grant
date.  The fair value of stock options is
determined as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Such
value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated
forfeitures, using the straight line method under SFAS 123(R).  

SFAS
123(R) also amends SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows, requiring
the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation costs to be
reported as financing cash flows, rather than as operating cash flows as
previously required, but only when such excess tax benefits are realized.  

The
fair value of stock options granted during the year ended December 31,
2005 was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model, assuming no dividends and the following weighted average assumptions:  

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S Treasury yield curve in effect at
the time of grant for periods corresponding with the expected life of the
option.  The expected lives represent the
weighted average period of time that options granted are expected to be
outstanding giving consideration to vesting schedules and the Company s
historical exercise pattern.  The
expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company s common
stock.  

The
following table provides relevant information as to reported results for the
year ended December 31, 2005 under the Company s intrinsic value method of
accounting for stock options with   

91  

supplemental
pro forma information as if the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123
had been applied (in thousands, except per share amounts):  

For the Year Ended     
      December 31, 2005   

Net
  income applicable to common stockholders, as reported  

$  

190,875  

Add:
  Stock-based compensation, as reported, net of taxes  

2,639  

Deduct:
  Total stock-based compensation determined under SFAS 123 fair value based
  method for all stock-based compensation, net of taxes  

(6,763)  

Adjusted
  net income, SFAS 123, fair value method for all stock-based compensation  

$  

186,751  

Net
  income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share, as reported  

$  

4.87  

Net
  income applicable to common stockholders per diluted common share, as
  reported  

$  

4.21  

Net
  income applicable to common stockholders per basic common share, SFAS 123
  adjusted  

$  

4.77  

Net
  income applicable to common stockholders per diluted common share, SFAS 123
  adjusted  

$  

4.13  

Income Taxes      The Company accounts for
income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes,  which requires recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for
the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax liabilities
and assets are determined based on the temporary difference between the
financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using presently
enacted tax rates in effect. Valuation allowances are established when
necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized.  

Segment Reporting      The Company operates and
manages its business as a single operating segment.  For geographic related information, see Note
19 to these Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Foreign Currency Translation      The functional currency of
the Company s foreign subsidiaries is generally their respective local
currency.  Assets and liabilities are
translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange existing at the balance
sheet date.  Income statement amounts are
translated at the average exchange rates for the period.  Translation gains and losses are included as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Foreign
currency transaction gains and (losses) are included in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations, principally in other income (expense), and amounted to
($0.2 million), $0.8 million and ($0.7 million) for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

Derivative Financial Instruments      The Company
recognizes all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value.  The Company uses derivative instruments
principally in the management of interest rate and foreign currency exposure.
On the date on which the Company enters into a derivative transaction, the
derivative is designated as a hedge of the identified exposure. The Company
formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged
items, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking
the hedge transaction. In this documentation, the Company specifically
identifies the asset, liability, firm commitment, forecasted transaction, or
net investment that has been designated as the hedged item and states how the
hedging instrument is expected to reduce the risks related to the hedged item.
The Company measures effectiveness of its hedging relationships both at hedge
inception and on an ongoing basis.  The
Company s derivative instruments do not contain leverage features. Gains and
losses on a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are reported as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains and losses on
a derivative designated as a fair value hedge are offset by the loss or gain of
the hedged item.   Hedge ineffectiveness
is recorded in the statement of operations as incurred.  

92  

From
time to time, the Company enters into forward contracts with counterparties
pursuant to which future foreign exchange rates for expected future earnings
are fixed.  Realized and unrealized gains
and losses resulting from the forward contracts are recognized in the period in
which they occur.  As of December 31,
2007, contracts with notional values of 16.0 million Euros and 3.7 million
British Pounds were outstanding to minimize the impact of short-term foreign
currency fluctuations on consolidated operating results.  As of December 31, 2006, contracts with
notional amounts of 17.6 million Euros were outstanding.  Foreign exchange gains (losses) from forward
contracts in the amount of ($3.0 million), ($1.5 million) and $0.3 million were
recorded in other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements      In September 2006,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157,
Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within
those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have
a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value
Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The standard requires
unrealized gains and losses to be included in earnings for items reported using
the fair value option.  SFAS No. 159
permits companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain
other items at fair value. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We
do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 to have a material impact on
our consolidated financial statements.  

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (R),  Business
Combinations  ( SFAS No. 141(R) ). SFAS No. 141(R) requires
an entity to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual
contingencies, and contingent consideration at their fair value on the
acquisition date. It also requires acquisition-related costs to be expensed as
incurred, restructuring costs to generally be expensed in periods subsequent to
the acquisition date, and changes in accounting for deferred tax asset
valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after the
measurement period impact income tax expense. The adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will
change the Company s accounting treatment for business combinations on a
prospective basis beginning January 1, 2009.  

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  ( SFAS No. 160 ).
SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority
interests, which will be characterized as non-controlling interests and
classified as a component of equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for
the Company on a prospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009.
The Company has not yet determined the impact on its consolidated financial
statements of adopting SFAS No. 160.  

3.                                           BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS  

On November 6, 2007,
the Company and a newly-formed, indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, acquired 100% of the total issued share capital of  Agoda Company, Ltd. ( Agoda ) and AGIP LLC ( AGIP, 
and together with Agoda, the  Agoda Companies ).  The purchase price for
the acquisition, including acquisition costs, consists of an initial purchase
price payable by the Company in cash of approximately $16 million and up to an
additional $141.6 million    in cash,
which is payable by the Company if the Agoda Companies achieve the maximum  gross
bookings  and earnings targets from January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2010.  The contingent consideration, if any, will be recorded as
additional purchase price when the contingency is resolved and additional
purchase price, if any, is distributable. Assets acquired totaled $13.7 million
and consisted principally of cash, accounts receivable and intangible
assets.  Liabilities assumed totaled
approximately $13.1 million and consisted of accounts payable, accrued
expenses, deferred merchant bookings and deferred taxes.  Preliminary goodwill resulting from the
acquisition amounted to approximately $15.7 million and is subject to
adjustment upon   

93  

finalization of the purchase price
allocation.  

On December 21, 2007,
the Company acquired 100% of the total issued share capital of an online advertising
company for approximately $4.1 million in cash, including acquisition
costs.  Assets acquired totaled $2.6
million and consisted principally of cash, accounts receivable and intangible
assets.  Liabilities assumed totaled
approximately $0.6 million and consisted of accounts payable, accrued expenses,
and deferred taxes.  Preliminary goodwill
resulting from the acquisition amounted to approximately $2.1 million and is
subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocation.  In addition, the Company could be required to
pay an additional amount of up to $3.8 million in each of the years 2008, 2009
and 2010, if the acquired company achieves certain performance targets.  

The acquisitions have been
accounted for as purchase business combinations. The Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements include the results of operations of the acquired
companies since their respective acquisitions.  

4.             STOCK-BASED EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION       

  The
Company has adopted the following stock compensation plans from which
broad-based employee grants may be made:  the priceline.com Incorporated
1997 Omnibus Plan (the  1997 Plan ), the priceline.com Incorporated 1999
Omnibus Plan (the  1999 Plan ) and the priceline.com Incorporated 2000 Employee
Stock Option Plan (the  2000 Plan ), each of which provides for grants of
share-based compensation as incentives and rewards to encourage employees,
officers, consultants and directors in the long-term success of the
Company.  The 1997 Plan, 1999 Plan and
2000 Plan provide for grants of share-based compensation to purchase up to
3,979,166, 7,895,833 and 1,000,000 shares of priceline.com common stock,
respectively, at a purchase price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant.  

Stock-based
compensation issued under the plans generally consists of non-qualified stock
options, restricted stock, performance share units and restricted stock
units.  Stock options are granted to
employees at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the common stock
at the date of grant and have a term of 10 years.  Generally, stock option grants to employees
vest over three years from the grant date. 
Restricted stock, performance share units and restricted stock units
generally vest over periods from 1 to 4 years. 
The Company issues new shares of common stock upon the issuance of
restricted stock, the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted
stock units and performance share units.  

In
addition, the Company has granted restricted stock and restricted stock units
in shares of priceline.com International to certain managers of its European
operations.  These awards generally vest
over two to three years.  

Stock-based
compensation cost was approximately $16.3 million, $14.9 million and $4.2
million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  The related tax benefit
was $5.3 million, $5.4 million and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 
Included in the above amounts are stock-based compensation and related
tax benefit for restricted stock and restricted stock units related to shares
of priceline.com International ( PIL Share-Based Awards ).  

94  

The
following table summarizes stock option activity during the year ended December 31,
2007:  

The
Company granted 371,998 stock options during the year ended December 31,
2005, with a weighted average grant-date fair value per share of $11.32.  No stock options were granted during the year
ended December 31, 2006.  The
intrinsic value of stock options exercised was approximately $12.6 million and
$4.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  As of December 31,
2007, the total future compensation cost related to unvested stock options not
yet recognized was $0.6 million and the weighted average period over which
these awards are expected to be recognized was 0.6 years.  

The
following table summarizes the activity of unvested restricted stock,
restricted stock units and performance share units ( Share-Based Awards )
during the year ended December 31, 2007:  

The
Company granted 322,620 and 389,977 restricted shares, performance share units
and restricted stock units during the years ended December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, with an aggregate grant-date fair value of approximately
$8.1 million and $8.8 million, respectively. 
During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
157,542 and 26,833 shares of restricted stock vested with a total grant date
fair value of $3.5 million and $0.6 million.  

As
of December 31, 2007, there was $70.5 million of total future compensation
cost related to unvested Share-Based Awards to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.7 years.  

The
unvested Share-Based Awards include 276,110 performance share units granted in
2007 to certain employees, net of actual forfeitures, with a weighted average
grant date fair value of   

95  

approximately
$96.73 per share.  The 276,110 represents the target number of performance
share units of priceline.com common stock that will be issued to employees if
the Company, and, with respect to certain grants, its subsidiaries,
priceline.com International and the Agoda Companies, achieve certain financial
performance goals.  The actual number of shares issued will be determined
in 2011 upon completion of the performance period, assuming there is no
accelerated vesting for, among other things, a termination of employment under
certain circumstances, or a change in control, and could range from 99,360 to
an additional 496,986 shares over the target number of shares if the maximum
performance threshold associated with the performance share units is met by the
Company and/or its subsidiaries, as applicable. 
Stock-based compensation related to the performance share units is
recorded based upon the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance
period.  During the year ended December 31,
2007, the estimated probable number of shares to be issued at the end of the
performance period was increased by 381,440 shares.  

The
unvested Share-Based Awards include a broad-based grant of 164,095 performance
share units to certain employees in 2006, net of actual forfeitures, with a
weighted average grant date fair value of approximately $25.39 per share. 
The 164,095 represents the target number of shares of priceline.com common
stock that will be issued to employees if the Company achieves certain
financial performance versus a peer group of companies.  The actual number
of share units issued will be determined in 2009 upon completion of the
performance period, assuming there is no accelerated vesting for, among other
things, a change in control, and could range from zero to an additional 328,190
shares over the target number of shares if the maximum performance threshold
associated with the performance share units is met by the Company.
 Stock-based compensation related to the performance share units is
recorded based upon the estimated probable outcome at the end of the
performance period.  During the year
ended December 31, 2006, the estimated probable number of shares to be
issued at the end of the performance period was increased by 328,190 shares.  

The
following table summarizes the activity of unvested PIL Share-Based Awards
during the year ended December 31, 2007 (based upon the exchange rate as
of December 31, 2007):  

The
Company granted 57,515 restricted shares and restricted stock units of
priceline.com International during the year ended December 31, 2005, with
an aggregate grant-date fair value of $1.8 million (based upon the exchange
rate at grant date).  No shares were
issued during the year ended December 31, 2006.  During the years ended December 31, 2006
and 2005, 23,382 and 24,958 shares of priceline.com International restricted
stock vested with a total grant date fair value of approximately $0.8 million
and $0.8 million, respectively.  

As
of December 31, 2007 there was $0.1 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to unvested PIL Share-Based Awards (based upon the
exchange rate as of December 31, 2007) to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 0.1 years.  

5.                                           RESTRUCTURING  

At
December 31, 2007, the Company had a restructuring liability of $1.2
million for the estimated remaining costs related to leased property vacated by
the Company in 2000. During the first quarter of   

96  

2006,
the Company recorded a $0.1 million restructuring charge based upon a
re-evaluation of the estimated disposal costs related to the vacated leased
property.  The Company estimates that,
based on current available information, the remaining net cash outflows associated
with its restructuring related commitments will be paid in 2008-2011. The
current portion of the restructuring accrual in the amount of $0.7 million is
recorded in  Accrued expenses and other current liabilities  and the $0.5
million non-current portion is recorded in  Other long-term liabilities  on the
Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

6.                                           INVESTMENTS  

The
following table summarizes, by major security type, the Company s short-term
investments as of December 31, 2007 (in thousands):  

The Company s short-term investments as of December 31, 2006 in
the amount of $8.0 million were comprised of U.S. government and agency
securities with no significant unrealized gain or loss.  

Long-term investments amounting to $2.5 million as of
December 31, 2007 were comprised of corporate debt with a maturity date
greater than one year and are recorded net of unrealized losses of
approximately $0.2 million.  No material
investment gains or losses were realized for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005.  

7.                                           ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE RESERVES  

The
Company accrues for costs associated with purchases made on its websites by
individuals using fraudulent credit cards and for other amounts  charged back 
as a result of payment disputes.  The
Company also records a provision for uncollectible commissions.  Changes in accounts receivable reserves
consisted of the following (in thousands):  

97  

8.             NET INCOME PER SHARE  

The
Company computes basic and diluted net income per share in accordance with SFAS
No. 128,  Earnings per Share.  Basic net income per share is calculated by
dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted net income per share is based upon the weighted
average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the
period.  

Common
equivalent shares related to stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock
units, performance share units and warrants are calculated using the treasury
stock method. Performance share units are included in the weighted average
common equivalent shares based on the number of shares that would be issued if
the end of the reporting period were the end of the performance period, if the
result would be dilutive. The warrants underlying Series B Preferred Stock
were considered for inclusion in fully diluted net income per share using the  if-converted 
method.  

The
Company s convertible debt issues have net share settlement features requiring
the Company upon conversion to settle the principal amount of the debt for cash
and the conversion premium for cash or shares of the Company s common stock.
Pursuant to EITF 90-19,  Convertible Bonds with Issuer Options to Settle for
Cash upon Conversion,  the convertible notes are included in the calculation of
diluted net income per share if their inclusion is dilutive under the treasury
stock method.  

Prior
to the Company executing an exchange offer in November 2006 that modified
certain terms in the 1% Notes and 2.25% Notes, such notes were convertible into
a fixed amount of common stock if certain specified conditions were met.
Pursuant to EITF 04-08  Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted
Earnings per Share , these convertible notes were included in the calculation
of diluted earnings per share if their inclusion was dilutive to earnings per
share under the  if-converted  method for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005.  

A
reconciliation of net income and the weighted average number of shares
outstanding used in calculating diluted earnings per share is as follows (in
thousands):  

98  

Anti-dilutive
potential common shares for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
includes approximately 7.9 million shares and 9.3 million shares, respectively,
that could be issued under the Company s convertible debt if the Company
experiences substantial increases in its common stock price. Under the treasury
stock method, the convertible notes will generally have a dilutive impact on
net income per share if the Company s average stock price for the period
exceeds the conversion price for the convertible notes. As an example, at stock
prices of $40 per share, $80 per share, $100 per share and $150 per share,
common equivalent shares would include approximately 0.1 million, 7.2 million,
8.6 million and 10.5 million equivalent shares, respectively, related to the
convertible notes (excluding the offsetting impact of the Convertible Spread
Hedges   see Note 12).  

9.             PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT  

Property and equipment at December 31,
2007 and 2006 consists of the following (in thousands):  

Fixed
asset depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $11.8 million,
$10.1 million and $8.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively.  

10.                                     INTANGIBLE
ASSETS AND GOODWILL  

The Company s intangible assets
consist of the following (in thousands):  

99  

Intangible assets with
determinable lives are amortized on a straight-line basis.  Intangible assets amortization expense was
approximately $25.7 million, $24.8 million and $18.6 million for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

The annual estimated
amortization expense for intangible assets for the next five years and
thereafter is expected to be as follows (in thousands):  

A
substantial majority of the Company s goodwill relates to its acquisitions of
Booking.com Limited in 2004, Booking.com B.V. in 2005 and subsequent purchases
of the minority interest in their parent company, priceline.com International.  

A
roll forward of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
consists of the following (in thousands):  

Impairment
tests performed in 2007 and 2006 did not result in any adjustments to the
carrying value of goodwill.  

11.                                     OTHER ASSETS  

Other assets at December 31,
2007 and 2006 consist of the following (in thousands):  

Investment in pricelinemortgage.com represents the Company s 49% equity
investment in pricelinemortgage.com and, accordingly, the Company recognizes
its pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s operating results, not to exceed
an amount that the Company believes represents the investment s estimated fair
value. The Company recognized losses of approximately $321,000 and $80,000
representing its pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s operating loss for
the years ended  

100  

December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2005,
the Company recognized approximately $1.3 million of income from its investment
in pricelinemortgage.com.  The Company
earned advertising fees from pricelinemortgage.com of approximately $9,000,
$22,000 and $53,000 in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  In 2006, the Company
recorded an impairment charge of $1.1 million to reduce the carrying value of
its equity investment in pricelinemortgage.com to its estimated fair value.  

Deferred debt issuance costs arose from the Company s issuance of $125
million aggregate principal amount of 1% Notes in August 2003, $100
million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% Notes in June 2004, $172.5
million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% Notes in September 2006 and
$172.5 million of aggregate principal amount 0.75% Notes in September 2006
(see Note 12).  Deferred debt issuance
costs of approximately $4.3 million, $3.8 million, $4.4 million and $4.4
million, respectively, consisting primarily of underwriting commissions and
professional service fees, are being amortized using the effective interest
rate method over approximately five years, except for the 0.75% Notes, which
are amortized over seven years.  

12.           DEBT  

Revolving Credit Facility   

In
September 2007, the Company entered into a $175 million five-year
revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, which is secured, subject to
certain exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on substantially all
of the Company s assets and related intangible assets located in the United
States. In addition, the Company s obligations under the revolving credit
facility are guaranteed by substantially all of the assets and related
intangible assets of the Company s material direct and indirect domestic and
foreign subsidiaries. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear
interest, at the Company s option, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association s prime lending rate and (b) the federal
funds rate plus   of 1%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%;
or at an adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such
borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. Undrawn
balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment
fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%.  

The
revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50 million of
letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as
swingline loans, which are available in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling
and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The Company
may request that an additional $100 million be added to the revolving
credit facility or to enter into one or more tranches of additional term loans.
The proceeds of loans made under the facility could be used for working capital
or general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2007, there were no
borrowings outstanding under the facility and the Company has issued
approximately $14.7 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit
facility.  

Convertible Debt   

The
Company s convertible debt is convertible into the Company s common stock
subject to certain conditions. Upon conversion, a holder will receive cash for
the principal amount of the note and cash or shares of the Company s common
stock for the conversion value in excess of such principal amount.  Based
upon the closing price of the Company s common stock for the prescribed
measurement periods during the three months ended December 31, 2007, the
contingent conversion thresholds on each of the Company s convertible senior
note issues were exceeded. As a result, the notes are convertible at the option
of the holder as of December 31, 2007 and, accordingly, have been
classified as a current liability amounting to approximately $570 million in
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that date. 
As of December 31, 2007, the estimated fair value of the
Convertible Senior Notes was approximately $1.66 billion.  If the note holders were to convert, the
Company would deliver approximately $570 million in cash to repay the principal
amount of the notes and would deliver cash or shares of common stock, at its   

101  

option, to satisfy the
conversion value in excess of the principal amount.  In 2007, approximately $50,000 and $23,000 of
the 2.25% Notes and 1% Notes, respectively, were converted.  The convertible debt may be classified
as long-term debt in future quarters if the contingent conversion thresholds
are not met in such quarters. Convertible debt consists of the following as of December 31,
2007 and 2006 (in thousands):  

The
$125 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due August 1,
2010, with an interest rate of 1.00% (the  1% Notes ) are convertible, subject
to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion price of
approximately $40.00 per share. Prior to August 1, 2008, the 1% Notes will
be convertible if the closing price of the Company s common stock for at least
20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the first day of a
conversion period is more than 110% of the then current conversion price of the
1% Notes, or after August 1, 2008, if the closing price of the Company s
common stock is more than 110% of the then current conversion price of the 1%
Notes. The 1% Notes are also convertible in certain other circumstances, such
as a change in control of the Company. In addition, the 1% Notes will be
redeemable at the Company s option beginning in 2008, and the holders
may require the Company to repurchase the 1% Notes on August 1, 2008
or in certain other circumstances. In the event that all or substantially all
of the Company s common stock is acquired on or prior to August 1, 2008,
in a transaction in which the consideration paid to holders of the Company s
common stock consists of all or substantially all cash, the Company would be
required to make additional payments in the form of additional shares of
common stock to the holders of 1% Notes in aggregate value ranging from $0 to
approximately $16.5 million depending upon the date of the transaction and the
then current stock price of the Company. No additional payments are due at
stock prices in excess of $100 per share. 
Interest on the 1% Notes is payable on February 1 and August 1
of each year.  

In
November 2003, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
whereby it swapped the fixed 1% interest on its 1% Notes for a floating
interest rate based on the 3-month U.S. Dollar LIBOR, minus the applicable
margin of 221 basis points, on $45 million notional value of debt. This
agreement expires August 1, 2010. The Company designated this interest
rate swap agreement as a fair value hedge. The changes in the fair value of the
interest rate swap agreement and the underlying debt are recorded as offsetting
gains and losses in interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. Hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005. The fair value cost to terminate this swap as of December 31,
2007 and 2006, was approximately $0.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively,
and has been recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31,
2007, and other long-term liabilities at December 31, 2006, with a related
adjustment to the carrying value of debt.  

In
2006, the Company issued in a private placement $172.5 million aggregate
principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011, with
an interest rate of 0.50% (the  2011 Notes ), and $172.5 million aggregate
principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013, with
an interest rate of 0.75% (the  2013 Notes ). 
The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes are convertible, subject  

102  

to certain conditions, into
the Company s common stock at a conversion price of approximately $40.38 per
share. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes are convertible, at the option of the
holder, prior to June 30, 2011 in the case of the 2011 Notes, and prior to
June 30, 2013 in the case of the 2013 Notes, upon the occurrence of
specified events, including, but not limited to a change in control, or if the
closing sale price of the Company s common stock for at least 20 trading days
in the period of the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day
of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more than 120% of the
applicable conversion price in effect for the notes on the last trading day of
the immediately preceding quarter. In the event that all or substantially all
of the Company s common stock is acquired on or prior to the maturity of the
2011 Notes or the 2013 Notes, in a transaction in which the consideration paid
to holders of the Company s common stock consists of all or substantially all
cash, the Company would be required to make additional payments in the
form of additional shares of common stock to the holders of the 2011 Notes
and the 2013 Notes, collectively, in aggregate value ranging from $0 to
approximately $57.5 million depending upon the date of the transaction and the
then current stock price of the Company.  No additional payments are due
at stock prices in excess of $100 per share. 
As of June 30, 2011, with respect to the 2011 Notes, and as of June 30,
2013, with respect to the 2013 Notes, holders shall have the right to convert
all or any portion of such security. Neither the 2011 Notes nor the 2013 Notes
may be redeemed by the Company prior to maturity. The holders
may require the Company to repurchase the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes
for cash in certain circumstances. Interest on the 2011 Notes and the 2013
Notes is payable on March 30 and September 30 of each year, starting March 30,
2007.  

The
Company entered into hedge transactions relating to potential dilution of the
Company s common stock upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes
(the  Conversion Spread Hedges ). Under the Conversion Spread Hedges, the
Company is entitled to purchase from the counterparties approximately 8.5
million shares of the Company s common stock (the number of shares underlying
the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes) at a strike price of $40.38 per share
(subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) and the counterparties are
entitled to purchase from the Company approximately 8.5 million shares of the
Company s common stock at a strike price of $50.47 per share (subject to
adjustment in certain circumstances).  The Conversion Spread Hedges
increase the effective conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes to
$50.47 per share from the Company s perspective and are designed to reduce the
potential dilution upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. If the
market value per share of the Company s common stock at the time of any
exercise is above $40.38, the Conversion Spread Hedge will entitle the Company
to receive from the counterparties net shares of the Company s common stock
based on the excess of the then current market price of the Company s common
stock over the strike price of the purchased call options. Holders of the 2011
Notes and the 2013 Notes do not have any rights with respect to the Conversion
Spread Hedges. The Conversion Spread Hedges are separate transactions entered
into by the Company with the counterparties, are not part of the terms of
the Notes and will not affect the holders  rights under the 2011 Notes and the
2013 Notes. The Conversion Spread Hedges are exercisable at dates coinciding
with the scheduled maturities of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes.  

The
Company analyzed the Conversion Spread Hedges under Emerging Issues Task Force
( EITF ) Issue No. 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments
Indexed to, and Potentially Settled In, a Company s Own Stock,  and EITF 01-6,  The
Meaning of Indexed to a Company s Own Stock  and determined that they meet the
criteria for classification as equity transactions. As a result, in the year
ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded the $37.4 million paid to
purchase Conversion Spread Hedges as a reduction in additional paid-in capital
and the Company will not recognize subsequent changes in fair value of the
agreements.  

The
$100 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due January 15,
2025, with an interest rate of 2.25% (the  2.25% Notes ) are convertible,
subject to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion
price of approximately $37.95 per share. The 2.25% Notes will be convertible
if, on or prior to January 15, 2020, the closing sale price of our common
stock for at least 20 consecutive trading days in the period of 30 consecutive
trading days ending on the first day of a   

103  

conversion
period is more than 120% of the then current conversion price of the 2.25%
Notes. The 2.25% Notes are also convertible in certain other circumstances,
such as a change in control of the Company. In the event that all or
substantially all of the Company s common stock is acquired on or prior to January 15,
2010, in a transaction in which the consideration paid to holders of the
Company s common stock consists of all or substantially all cash, the Company
would be required to make additional payments in the form of common shares
to the holders of the 2.25% Notes of amounts ranging from $0 to $14.3 million
depending upon the date of the transaction and the then current stock price of
the Company. Based on the stock price at December 31, 2007, the Company
would be required to make $0.6 million in additional payments.  In addition, the 2.25% Notes will be
redeemable at the Company s option beginning January 20, 2010, and the
holders may require the Company to repurchase the 2.25% Notes on January 15,
2010, 2015 or 2020, or in certain other circumstances. Interest on the 2.25%
Notes is payable on January 15 and July 15 of each year.  

The Company used a portion
of the net proceeds from the issuance of its convertible debt to purchase the
Conversion Spread Hedges and to repurchase 3.85 million shares of its common
stock at a cost of $129.6 million.  The
Company also used a portion of the net proceeds from the issuances to fund the
acquisitions of Travelweb and Booking.com Limited in 2004, Booking.com B.V. in July 2005
and the Agoda Companies in 2007.  The
remaining proceeds are available for general corporate purposes, strategic uses
and working capital requirements.  

13.           TREASURY STOCK  

In
the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $50 million of the Company s common stock from time to time
in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In addition, in the
third quarter 2006, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase
of up to an additional $150 million of the Company s common stock with a
portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes.
The Company s Board of Directors has also given the Company the general
authorization to repurchase shares of its common stock to satisfy employee
withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation.  

Under
these programs, the Company repurchased approximately 4.1 million shares of its
common stock at an aggregate cost of $134.7 million in the year ended December 31,
2006, at prevailing market prices. Repurchases of 43,358 and 40,496 shares at
an aggregate cost of approximately $2.6 million and $1.1 million were made in
the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, to satisfy
employee withholding taxes related to stock-based compensation.  

The
Company may make additional repurchases of shares under its stock
repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses
of capital and other factors. Whether and when to initiate and/or complete any
purchase of common stock and the amount of common stock purchased will be
determined in the Company s complete discretion. As of December 31, 2007,
there were approximately 6.6 million shares of the Company s common stock held
in treasury.  

14.           REDEEMABLE PREFERRED
STOCK  

There
were 13,470 shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding as of December 31,
2006, with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $13.5 million
and a semi-annual dividend requirement of 40,240 shares of common stock.  In the first quarter of 2007, Delta exercised
warrants to purchase 756,199 shares of the Company s common stock by
surrendering 13,470 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, representing all
of the remaining outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, and the
Company issued a final pro-rated dividend to Delta in the amount of 34,874
shares of common stock. The exercise of the warrant was a non-cash
transaction.  The Company recorded non-cash
dividends of approximately $1.6 million, $1.9 million and $1.9 million for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

104  

15.                                     MINORITY
INTERESTS  

In
connection with the Company s acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005
and Booking.com Limited in September 2004 and the reorganization of its
European operations, key managers of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited
purchased shares of priceline.com International.  In addition, these key managers were granted
restricted stock and restricted stock units in priceline.com International
shares that vest over time.  As of December 31, 2007, the total
aggregate minority interest in priceline.com International on a fully diluted
basis was approximately 3.30%.  

The
holders of the minority interest in priceline.com International have the right
to put their shares to the Company and the Company has the right to call their
shares at a purchase price reflecting the fair market value of the shares at
the time of the exercise of the put or call right.  Subject to certain
exceptions, (a) certain of the shares are subject to the put and call
options in March 2008 and (b) certain of the shares are subject to
the put and call options in August 2008.  In April 2007 (in
connection with the March 2007 put and call options), the Company
repurchased 92,125 shares underlying minority interest with a carrying value of
$3.7 million for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $15.0 million
based upon fair value.  In October 2007 (in connection with the August 2007
put and call options), the Company repurchased 197,538 shares underlying
minority with a carrying value of $9.9 million for an aggregate purchase price
of approximately $61.0 million based upon fair value.  In 2006, the
Company repurchased shares underlying minority interest with a carrying value
of $7.9 million for an aggregate purchase price of $19.8 million based upon
fair value.  The purchases have been accounted for as step acquisitions
and accordingly, the excess of the purchase price over the carrying value is
recorded as an increase of intangible assets, deferred taxes and goodwill.  

All purchased securities and vested granted securities described above
can be put by the holders of the securities or called by the Company shortly
after the consummation of a  change in control  of the Company.  The
aggregate fair value of the remaining minority interest in priceline.com
International is estimated to be approximately $95 million and $63 million at December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, including unvested restricted stock and restricted
stock units.  

16.                                     TAXES  

Domestic pre-tax income was
$25.9 million, $27.6 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 
Foreign pre-tax income was $119.1 million, $34.5 million and $5.1
million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  

The tax provision (benefit) for
the year ended December 31, 2007 is as follows (in thousands):  

The tax provision (benefit) for
the year ended December 31, 2006 is as follows (in thousands):  

105  

The
tax provision (benefit)   for the year ended   December 31, 2005 is
as follows (in thousands):  

At
December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $3.0 billion of net
operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs ) for U.S. federal income tax purposes expiring
from December 31, 2019 to 2021.  The
utilization of these NOL s is subject to limitation under Section 382 of
the Internal Revenue Code and is also dependent upon the Company s ability to
generate sufficient future income.  

Section 382
imposes limitations on the availability of a company s net operating losses
after a more than 50 percentage point ownership change occurs.  The Section 382 limitation is based upon
certain conclusions pertaining to the dates of ownership changes and the value
of the Company on the dates of the ownership changes.  As a result of a study, it was determined
that ownership changes, as defined in Section 382, occurred in 2000 and
2002.  The amount of the Company s net
operating losses incurred prior to each ownership change is limited based on
the value of the Company on the respective dates of ownership change.  It is estimated that the effect of Section 382
will generally limit the total cumulative amount of net operating loss
available to offset future taxable income to approximately $1.6 billion.  Pursuant to Section 382, subsequent
ownership changes could further limit this amount.  

As required by SFAS No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes,  the Company periodically evaluates the
likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduces the carrying
amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent it
believes a portion will not be realized. The Company considers many factors
when assessing the likelihood of future realization of the deferred tax assets,
including its recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction,
expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available for tax
reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Based upon such assessments, in
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded
non-cash income tax benefits in the amount of $47.9 million, $28.1 million and
$170.5 million, respectively, resulting from a reversal of a portion of its
valuation allowance on its domestic deferred tax assets.  In addition, the
Company recognized $3.6 million of deferred tax assets in 2007 related to
foreign capital allowance deductions that are considered more likely than not
to be realized. The deferred tax asset at December 31, 2007 and 2006
amounted to $232.6 million and $191.7 million, respectively.  The current portion at December 31, 2007
and 2006 amounting to $14.0 million and $12.3 million, respectively, is
recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.  It is more likely than
not that the remaining deferred tax assets will not be realized and,
accordingly, a valuation allowance remains against those assets.  The
valuation allowance may need to be adjusted in the future if facts and
circumstances change, causing a reassessment of the amount of deferred tax
assets more likely than not to be realized.  

The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as
follows (in thousands):  

106  

The
Company has recorded a deferred tax liability in the amount of $46.5 million
and $39.7 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily
related to the assignment of estimated fair value to certain purchased identifiable
intangible assets associated with the acquisitions of Booking.com Limited,
Booking.com B.V. and Agoda Company, Ltd. 
Income tax benefits in the amount of $1.3 million and $3.0 million,
respectively, were recorded in 2007 and 2006 resulting from the impact on
deferred taxes of enacted reductions in certain foreign statutory tax
rates.  At December 31, 2007, no
provision had been made for U.S. taxes on approximately $108.6 million of
foreign earnings that are expected to be reinvested indefinitely.  Estimating the tax liability that would arise
if these earnings were repatriated is not practicable at this time.  

The
valuation allowance decreased by approximately $62 million and $38 million for
the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, resulting primarily from a
reversal of a portion of its valuation allowance to adjust the estimated amount
of deferred tax assets more likely than not to be realized.  

At
December 31, 2007, the Company has approximately $660 million of state net
operating loss carryfowards that expire between 2021 and 2023, approximately
$97 million of U.K. net operating loss carryforwards and $10 million of U.K.
capital allowance carryforwards that do not expire.  At December 31, 2006, the Company had
approximately $5 million of U.S. capital loss carryforwards, which expired in
2007.  At December 31, 2007, the
Company also had approximately $1.4 million of U.S. research credit
carryforwards that expire from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020
and are also subject to annual limitation. 
  Approximately $1.9 billion of the federal NOL tax benefits were
generated through equity-related transactions, including equity-based
compensation and stock warrants and would be a recorded as an increase to
additional paid-in capital if subsequently utilized.  

The effective income tax rate of the Company is
different from the amount computed using the expected U.S. statutory federal
rate of 35% as a result of the following items (in thousands):  

107  

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,
 Uncertainty in Income Taxes  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 applies to all tax positions
and clarifies the recognition of tax benefits in the financial statements by
providing for a two-step approach of recognition and measurement. The first
step involves assessing whether the tax position is more likely than not to be
sustained upon examination based upon its technical merits. The second step
involves measurement of the amount to recognize. Tax positions that meet the
more likely than not threshold are measured at the largest amount of tax
benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
finalization with the taxing authority. The Company adopted FIN 48 effective January 1,
2007. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the Company s
consolidated results of operations and financial position.  

The Company s U.K.,
Netherlands, U.S. Federal and Connecticut income tax returns, constituting the
returns of the major taxing jurisdictions, are subject to examination by the
taxing authorities for all open years as prescribed by applicable statute. No income
tax waivers have been executed that would extend the period subject to
examination beyond the period prescribed by statute.  

17.                                     COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES  

Litigation Related to Hotel
Occupancy and Other Taxes   

Statewide
Putative Class Actions   

A
number of cities and counties have filed putative class actions on behalf of
themselves and other allegedly similarly situated cities and counties within
the same respective state against the Company and other defendants, including,
but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com Incorporated and Travelweb LLC, both of
which are subsidiaries of the Company, and Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP,
LLC; Hotwire, Inc.; Cheaptickets, Inc.; Travelport, Inc. (f/k/a
Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.); Expedia, Inc.;
Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC;
Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.;
Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  Each complaint alleges, among other things,
that the defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax
ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes
under each ordinance.  Each complaint
typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law,
attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such
actions include:  

City
of Los Angeles v. Hotels.com, Inc., et al.   :  On December 30, 2004, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles
by the City of Los Angeles on behalf of itself and an alleged class of
California cities, counties and other municipalities that have enacted
occupancy taxes.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under California
Business and Professions Code   17200,  et seq.  ( Section 17200 ).  On August 31, 2005, the City of Los
Angeles filed an amended complaint adding a claim for a declaratory
judgment.  On September 26, 2005, the
court sustained the defendants  demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims, and therefore, dismissed the amended complaint, with
leave to file a second amended complaint. 
On February 8, 2006, the City of Los Angeles filed a second amended
complaint that asserts the same claims but includes additional allegations of
fact.  On March 27, 2006, at the
direction of the court, the defendants filed renewed demurrers to the second
amended complaint on grounds of improper joinder of defendants and claims.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
a petition to coordinate this matter with the  City of San
Diego  case (discussed below). 
On July 12, 2006, that   

108  

petition
was granted, and, as a result, this case and the  City of San
Diego  case will now proceed in the Superior Court of Los
Angeles.   On January 17, 2007, the
defendants filed demurrers to the City of Los Angeles  second amended complaint
on all issues other than misjoinder of defendants and claims.  On March 1, 2007, the court denied
defendants  previously-filed demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims.  On March 2,
2007, the City of Los Angeles filed a third amended complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the defendants filed
renewed demurrers to the third amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s third amended complaint
without prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City is presently
conducting those administrative procedures.  

City
of Fairview Heights v. Orbitz, Inc., et al.   :  On October 5, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court, Twentieth Judicial Circuit,
St. Clair County, Illinois, by the City of Fairview Heights on behalf of itself
and a putative class of Illinois taxing authorities that are allegedly
authorized to impose a tax on the business of renting hotel rooms.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for violation of the Illinois Consumer Fraud and Deceptive
Practices Act, 815 ILCS 505/1, similar laws in other states, conversion and
unjust enrichment.  On November 28,
2005, the Company and certain other defendants removed this action to the
United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois.  On January 17, 2006, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On February 10,
2006, the City of Fairview Heights moved to remand this action to state
court.  On July 12, 2006, the court
granted defendants  motion to dismiss all claims other than the tax claim,
denied defendants  motion to dismiss the tax claim, and denied plaintiff s
motion to remand.  On August 1,
2007, the City of Fairview Heights moved for class certification.  That motion is pending.  

City
of Rome, Georgia, et al., v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On November 18, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia by the City of Rome, Hart County and the City of
Cartersville on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Georgia cities,
counties and governments which have enacted transient occupancy taxes and/or excise
taxes on lodging.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of Georgia s Uniform
Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment, a
constructive trust and a declaratory judgment. 
On February 6, 2006, the Company and certain other defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.  On May 8,
2006, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss all claims relating to
the Georgia sales and use tax and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the
excise tax claims.  The plaintiffs filed
an amended complaint on June 7, 2006 naming additional plaintiffs.  On February 9, 2007, the defendants
moved for summary judgment on the plaintiffs  claims for plaintiffs  failure to
exhaust the administrative procedures required by Georgia law and plaintiffs 
respective ordinances.  On May 10,
2007, the court denied the defendants  motion but concluding that plaintiffs
were required to estimate, assess and attempt to collect the taxes at
issue.  The court stayed further litigation
to permit plaintiffs to comply with those administrative procedures.  Since May 10, 2007, certain of the
plaintiffs have sent the Company and other defendants notices of deficiency and
requests for reports regarding hotel reservation transactions in their
respective jurisdictions, to which the Company and other defendants have
responded.  

Pitt
County v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On December 1, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the North Carolina General Court of Justice,
Superior Court Division by Pitt County on behalf of itself and a putative class
of North Carolina political subdivisions that impose occupancy taxes.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq ., conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory
judgment.  On February 13, 2006, the
defendants removed this action to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.  On March 13,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 29, 2007, the court denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On April 13, 2007, the defendants moved for reconsideration of that
decision or, in the alternative, interlocutory appeal.  On August 13, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion for reconsideration of the court s prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss, and dismissed the action in its entirety.  On September 6, 2007, Pitt   

109  

County
filed a notice of appeal of that decision to the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit.  That appeal is
pending.  

City
of San Antonio, Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On May 8, 2006, a putative class action
complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Texas, San Antonio Division, by the City of San Antonio on behalf
of itself and putative classes of Texas municipalities.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claim for conversion and a declaratory judgment.  On June 30, 2006, the Company and other
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On August 28, 2006, the plaintiff moved for class
certification.  Following briefing of the
motion to dismiss and motion for class certification, on October 30, 2006,
the plaintiff filed a first amended complaint that limited the putative classes
of Texas municipalities to 175 specifically enumerated municipalities that
plaintiff alleges to have hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to that of the
plaintiff.  On March 21, 2007, the
court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the City of San Antonio s amended
complaint.   On May 16 and 17, 2007,
the court conducted a hearing on the City of San Antonio s motion for class
certification.  That motion remains
pending.   On September 7, 2007, the
defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s March 21,
2007 order denying the defendants  motion to dismiss, and that motion was
denied on October 1, 2007.  

Lake
County Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc.    and
Marshall County v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On June 12, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Indiana, Hammond Division, by the Lake County Convention and Visitors Bureau
and Marshall County on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Indiana
counties, convention and visitors bureaus and any other local governments which
have enacted or benefit from taxes on innkeepers.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and breach of fiduciary
duties.  On November 3, 2006, the
Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  That motion is pending.  

City
of Columbus, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On August 8, 2006, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio by the cities of Columbus and Dayton on behalf of themselves
and a putative class of Ohio cities, counties and townships that have enacted
occupancy or excise taxes on lodging.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust
enrichment, money had and received, conversion, a constructive trust and a
declaratory judgment.   On September 25,
2006, the Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On September 27, 2006, the Company and
other defendants moved to transfer the case to the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio, where the  City of Findlay 
case (discussed below) is pending.  On January 8,
2007, the Magistrate Judge issued a report and recommendation that the case be
transferred to the Northern District of Ohio. 
Plaintiffs objected to the Magistrate Judge s report and
recommendations.  On July 10, 2007,
the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio transferred
the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Ohio.  On July 23, 2007, the court
in the Northern District of Ohio granted defendants  motion to dismiss the
plaintiffs  Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and denied defendants  motion
to dismiss the remaining claims, adopting the reasoning of the court s opinion
on the motion to dismiss in the  City of Findlay 
case.  On August 31, 2007, the
defendants answered the complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the parties jointly moved to consolidate the  City of
Columbus  action with the  City of Findlay  action
for pre-trial purposes, and that motion was granted on November 6,
2007.  On February 19, 2008, the
cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay moved to amend their respective
complaints to drop all class action allegations and to add nine additional Ohio
municipalities as plaintiffs.   That
motion is pending.  

Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On September 21, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District
of Kentucky by the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government on behalf of
itself and a putative class of Kentucky cities, counties and townships that
have enacted transient room taxes.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion,
money had and received, unjust enrichment, a constructive trust, and a declaratory
judgment.  On December 15, 2006, the
plaintiff moved to amend the   

110  

complaint
to make certain changes to the identity of the defendants. That motion was
granted, and, on January 8, 2007, plaintiff filed its amended
complaint.  On December 22, 2006,
the defendants moved to dismiss the original complaint, and, on January 17,
2007, renewed their motion to dismiss with respect to the amended
complaint.  On August 10, 2007, the
court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss. 
On September 13, 2007, the defendants answered.  On October 26, 2007, the defendants
filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s order denying the defendants 
motion to dismiss, or, in the alternative, certification of interlocutory
appeal to the Kentucky Supreme Court or the United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit.  On November 9,
2007, the plaintiff moved to strike the defendants  motion for
reconsideration.  Both motions are
pending.  The plaintiff has stated its
intent to seek to amend its amended complaint to withdraw its class
allegations.  

County
of Nassau, New York v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On October 24, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of New York by Nassau County on behalf of itself and a putative class of New
York cities, counties and other local governmental entities that have imposed
hotel taxes since March 1, 1995.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion,
unjust enrichment and a constructive trust. 
On January 31, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  On August 17, 2007, the
court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint for the County of
Nassau s failure to exhaust its mandatory administrative procedures for tax
collection.  On September 12, 2007,
the County of Nassau filed a notice of appeal of that order to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
That appeal is pending.  

City
of Fayetteville v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.:     On February 28, 2007, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Washington County, Arkansas
by the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas on behalf of itself and a putative class
of Arkansas cities, counties and townships that have enacted uniform hotel
taxes on lodging.  In addition to the
claim for hotel taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory
judgment, conversion, unjust enrichment, and a constructive trust.  On July 24, 2007, the City of
Fayetteville filed an amended complaint correcting the names of certain
defendants.  On August 7, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint.  That motion is pending.  

City
of Jefferson, Missouri v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On June 27, 2007, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Cole County, Missouri by the
City of Jefferson, Missouri on behalf of itself and a putative class of
Missouri cities, counties and governments that have enacted taxes on
lodging.  In addition to the claim for
hotel taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for violation of the Missouri
Merchandising Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment, declaratory
judgment, breach of fiduciary duties and a constructive trust.  On November 5, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  That
motion is being briefed.  

City
of Gallup, New Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On July 6, 2007, a putative class action
was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico by
the City of Gallup on behalf of itself and a putative class of New Mexico
taxing authorities that have enacted lodgers  taxes.  The complaint asserts claims for violation of
the New Mexico Lodger s Tax Act and municipal ordinances.  On August 27, 2007, the defendants
answered the City of Gallup s complaint. 
The parties are currently conducting discovery.  

The
Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the
aforementioned proceedings.  

111  

Actions
Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities   

Several
cities, counties, municipalities and other political subdivisions across the
country have filed actions relating to the collection of hotel occupancy taxes
against the Company and other defendants, including, but not in all cases,
Lowestfare.com Incorporated and Travelweb LLC, both of which are subsidiaries
of the Company, and Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.;
Cheaptickets, Inc.; Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.;
Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com);
Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC;
Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  In each, the complaint alleges, among other
things, that each of these defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective
hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of
amounts to cover taxes under each ordinance. 
Each complaint typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement,
penalties available by law, attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such actions include:  

City
of Findlay v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On October 25, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Common Pleas Court of Hancock County, Ohio by
the City of Findlay on behalf of itself and a putative class of Ohio cities,
counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes on
lodging.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for violation of the Ohio Consumer Sales
Practices Act, Ohio Revised Code Chapter 1345,  et seq .,
conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On November 22, 2005, the Company and
certain other defendants removed this action to the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio. 
On January 30, 2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  On July 26, 2006, the
court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the Consumer Sales Practices Act
claims and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 2, 2007, the City of Findlay
filed a motion seeking leave to amend its complaint to withdraw its allegations
seeking to assert claims on behalf of a state-wide class of Ohio cities,
counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes on lodging.  On August 15, 2007, the court granted
that motion and an amended complaint withdrawing those class allegations was
filed.  On September 4, 2007, the
defendants answered the amended complaint. 
On November 5, 2007, the parties jointly moved to consolidate the  City of Findlay  action with the  City of
Columbus  action (discussed above) for pre-trial purposes, and that
motion was granted on November 6, 2007.  
On February 19, 2008, the cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay
moved to amend their respective complaints to drop all class action allegations
and to add nine additional Ohio municipalities as plaintiffs.   That motion is pending.  

City
of Chicago, Illinois v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al   .:  On November 1, 2005, the City of
Chicago, Illinois filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook County,
Illinois.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, imposition of a constructive
trust, and a demand for a legal accounting. 
On January 31, 2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  On September 27, 2007,
the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On November 2, 2007, the defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
currently conducting discovery.  

City
of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   :  On February 9, 2006, the City of San
Diego, California filed a complaint in Superior Court for the County of San
Diego, California.  In addition to the
tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under Section 17200.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
with a petition to coordinate this matter with the  City of Los
Angeles  case (discussed above). 
On July 12, 2006, that petition was granted, and, as a result, this
case was coordinated with the  City of Los Angeles 
action and will proceed in the Superior Court of Los Angeles.  As discussed above, on March 1, 2007,
the court denied defendants  previously-filed demurrers to the City of Los
Angeles  Second Amended Complaint on misjoinder grounds, which the parties
deemed applicable to the City of San Diego s complaint.  On January 17, 2007, the defendants
filed demurrers to the City of San Diego s complaint on all issues other than
misjoinder of defendants and claims.  On March 8,
2007, the City of San Diego filed an amended complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the defendants filed
a renewed motion to dismiss the amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s amended complaint without
prejudice to re-filing upon   

112  

the
exhaustion of the City s mandatory administrative procedures for tax
collection, and stayed the action pending such exhaustion.  The City is presently conducting those
administrative procedures.  

City
of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   :  On March 29, 2006, the City of Atlanta,
Georgia filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for a declaratory judgment, conversion, unjust enrichment,
a constructive trust and a demand for an equitable accounting.  On June 5, 2006, certain defendants,
including the Company and its subsidiaries, answered the complaint.  The parties proceeded to conduct
discovery.  On October 12, 2006, as
directed by the court, the defendants submitted briefs regarding the City of
Atlanta s failure to exhaust the administrative remedies dictated by Georgia
law and its own ordinance.  On December 12,
2006, the court dismissed the City of Atlanta s action for lack of jurisdiction
because the City of Atlanta failed to exhaust mandatory administrative remedies
prior to bringing suit.  On January 10,
2007, the City of Atlanta filed a notice of appeal to the court s order
deciding it lacked jurisdiction.  On October 26,
2007, the Georgia Court of Appeals affirmed the order of the Georgia Superior
Court.  On November 5, 2007, the
City moved for reconsideration of the October 26, 2007 opinion, and that
motion was denied on November 13, 2007. 
On December 10, 2007, the City filed a petition for certiorari with
the Georgia Supreme Court.  The
defendants have opposed that petition, which remains pending.  

City
of Charleston, South Carolina v. Hotel.com, et al.   :  On April 26, 2006, the City of
Charleston, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas,
Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina. 
In addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for
conversion, a constructive trust and a demand for a legal accounting.  On May 31, 2006, defendants removed the
case to the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina,
Charleston Division.  On July 7,
2006, the defendants answered the complaint. 
On January 23, 2007, the City of Charleston moved to amend the
complaint to assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade
Practices Act.   On April 23, 2007,
the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert
claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and
plaintiff amended its complaint to assert such claims on May 14,
2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court
granted defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  Town of Mount Pleasant  (discussed below).  On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the court denied that motion.  The
parties are currently conducting discovery.  

Town
of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, et al.   :  On May 23, 2006, the Town of Mount
Pleasant, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Ninth
Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On July 21,
2006, the defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for
the District of South Carolina, Charleston Division.  On September 15, 2006, the defendants
answered the complaint.  On January 22,
2007, the Town of Mount Pleasant moved to amend the complaint to assert claims
arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.  On April 23, 2007, the court granted
plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and plaintiff amended its
complaint to assert such claims on May 14, 2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court granted
defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  City of Charleston
 (discussed above).  On June 4,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5, 2007, the court denied
that motion.  The parties are currently
conducting discovery.  

City
of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On August 28, 2006, the City of North
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas,
Fifteenth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina. 
On October 27, 2006, the Company and certain other defendants
removed the case to the United States District Court for the District of South
Carolina, Florence Division.  On December 1,
2006, the defendants filed their motion to dismiss the complaint.  On September 30, 2007, the court denied
that motion.  

113  

Wake
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On November 3, 2006, Wake County, North
Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior Court
Division, Wake County, North Carolina. 
In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy Taxes, the complaint
also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an injunction, conversion,
imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting, violation of North Carolina
General Statute   75-1,  et seq ., and
breach of agency duties and statutory penalties.  On January 31, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss this action.  On February 1,
2007, the defendants moved to designate the case as a complex business case
subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Business Court, to which
plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to the Business Court.  On April 4, 2007, the  Wake County ,  Dare County ,  Buncombe County  and  Dare County 
actions (discussed below) were consolidated for pre-trial purposes, and the
following discussion applies to all four actions.  On May 7, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the  Dare County  and  Buncombe
County  actions.  On November 19,
2007, the court granted in part and denied in part the motions to dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims for
conversion, all claim for violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,
et seq.  The court also dismissed all
claims brought by Cumberland County for that plaintiff s failure to exhaust
mandatory administrative remedies before filing suit.  The remaining claims brought by the other
three plaintiffs survived the defendants  motions.  The remaining parties are currently
conducting discovery.  

Cumberland
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   : On December 4, 2006,
Cumberland County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of
Justice, Superior Court Division, Cumberland County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy
Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq. ,
and breach of agency duties and statutory penalties.  On February 12, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss this action and moved to designate the case as a complex
business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Business Court,
to which plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to the Business
Court.  On April 4, 2007, this
action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above.  

Dare
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On January 26, 2007, Dare County, North
Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior Court
Division, Dare County, North Carolina. 
In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy Taxes, the complaint
also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an injunction, conversion,
imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting, violation of North Carolina
General Statute   75-1,  et seq ., and
breach of agency duties and statutory penalties.  On February 22, 2007, the defendants
moved to designate the case as a complex business case subject to the
jurisdiction of the North Carolina Business Court, and the case was thereafter
transferred to the Business Court.  On April 4,
2007, this action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above.  

Buncombe
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On February 1, 2007, Buncombe County,
North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior
Court Division, Buncombe County, North Carolina.  In addition to the Company and those
subsidiaries named in certain of the foregoing litigations (Lowestfare.com
Incorporated and Travelweb LLC), the complaint also names priceline.com LLC as
a defendant.  The complaint seeks a
declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes, as
well as supplemental relief including, without limitation, an accounting and a
determination of the amount of taxes due but unpaid.  Buncombe County designated its complaint as a
mandatory complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North
Carolina Business Court.  On April 4,
2007, this action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above.  

City
of Branson v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.   :  On December 28, 2006, the City of
Branson, Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Greene County,
Missouri.  In addition to the claim for
Tourism Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, conversion
and a legal accounting.  On April 23,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, and that motion was denied
on November 26, 2007.  The parties
are presently conducting discovery.  

114  

Horry County, et al. v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al. :  On February 2,
2007, Horry County, South Carolina and the Horry County Administrator filed a
complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment
that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and that the plaintiffs are
entitled to other relief, including penalties and interest.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.  On January 7,
2008, the court indicated that it would deny the defendants  motion to dismiss,
but no order has been entered.  

City of Myrtle Beach, South
Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al. : 
On February 2, 2007, the City of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed
a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment
that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and that the plaintiff is
entitled to other relief, including penalties and interest.  On April 23, 2007, the defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.  On December 11,
2007, the court heard argument on that motion, along with the motion in the
Horry County action (discussed above).  

City of
Houston, Texas v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.   :  On March 5, 2007, the City of Houston,
Texas filed a complaint in the District Court of Harris County, Texas.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
Houston hotel occupancy tax ordinance, the complaint also asserted claims for
conversion, constructive trust, civil conspiracy, and a legal accounting.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants filed
special exceptions to the complaint.  On July 5,
2007, the court denied in part and granted in part the defendants  special
exceptions.  The court denied the special
exceptions relating to the adequacy of the plaintiff s allegations, but granted
the special exceptions requiring the plaintiff to state with specificity the
maximum amount of damages claimed.  On October 2,
2007, the City of Houston filed an amended complaint adding the Harris County
Sports Authority as a plaintiff.  On October 15,
2007, the Company and the other defendants filed renewed special exceptions to
the complaint and affirmative defenses. 
On November 19, 2007, the court granted those special
exceptions.  On January 22, 2008,
the plaintiffs filed a second amended petition. 
On February 4, 2008, the Company and the defendants filed renewed
special exceptions to the petition and moved to dismiss the action.  The special exceptions and motion are
pending.  

City of Oakland, California
v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al. :  On June 29,
2007, the City of Oakland, California filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
City of Oakland s Transient Tax Ordinance, the complaint also asserted unfair
competition claims under California Business and Professions Code   17200,  et seq. , and claims for conversion, unjust enrichment,
punitive damages, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On September 18, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On November 6,
2007, the court granted the defendants  motion and dismissed the City of
Oakland s complaint with prejudice for the City s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On December 5, 2007, the City of Oakland
filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.  That appeal is being briefed.  

City of Madison v. Expedia, Inc.,
et al. :  On November 30, 2007,
the City of Madison filed a declaratory judgment complaint in the Circuit Court
for Dane County, Wisconsin seeking a declaration that the defendants are
subject to the Madison hotel occupancy tax. 
On January 23, 2008, the Company and the other defendants moved to
dismiss the City of Madison s declaratory judgment complaint on the basis that
the City failed to exhaust its mandatory administrative remedies before filing
suit.  That motion is pending.  

Mecklenburg County v.
Hotels.com LP, et al. :  On January 14,
2008, Mecklenburg County filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice,
Superior Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for room occupancy
taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1, et seq., and breach of
agency duties and statutory penalties. 
At the time it filed the complaint, Mecklenburg also moved to designate
the case as a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North
Carolina Business Court.  The Company and
its subsidiaries accepted   

115  

service
of the complaint and are presently scheduled to move to dismiss, answer or
otherwise respond to the complaint on or before March 24, 2008.  On February 19, 2008, this action was
consolidated with  Wake County , which is discussed
in further detail above.  

We have also been informed by
counsel to the plaintiffs in certain of the aforementioned actions that
various, undisclosed municipalities or taxing jurisdictions may file additional
cases against the Company, Lowestfare.com Incorporated and Travelweb LLC in the
future.  Some of those municipalities or
taxing jurisdictions have sent the Company and/or its subsidiaries tax notices
or demands, including Brunswick County and Stanly County, North Carolina,
Jefferson County, Arkansas, City of North Little Rock, Arkansas, and the Pine
Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission.  

The Company intends to defend
vigorously against the claims in all of the aforementioned proceedings.  

Consumer
Class Actions   

Marshall, et
al. v. priceline.com, Inc.   :  On February 17, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware for
New Castle County by Jeanne Marshall and three other individuals on behalf of
themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated consumers
nationwide against the Company.  The
complaint alleged that the Company violated the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act,
Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6,   2511,  et seq .,
relating to its disclosures and charges to customers to cover taxes under city
hotel occupancy tax ordinances nationwide, and service fees.  The Company moved to dismiss the complaint on
April 21, 2005.  On June 10,
2005, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that asserts claims under the
Delaware Consumer Fraud Act and for breach of contract and the implied duty of
good faith and fair dealing.  The amended
complaint seeks compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys  fees and
other relief.  On October 31, 2006,
the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to
dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims
arising under the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. 
The court also dismissed all claims for breach of contract and the
implied duty of good faith and fair dealing that relate to Company s charges
for service fees.  The court denied the
Company s motion to dismiss the breach of contract and implied duty of good
faith and fair dealing claims as they relate to the Company s charges to
consumers to cover taxes under city hotel occupancy tax ordinances.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery.  The plaintiffs have stated
their intent to seek leave to amend their complaint.  

Bush, et al. v.
Cheaptickets, Inc., et al.   :  On February 17, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles by
Ronald Bush and three other individuals on behalf of themselves and other
allegedly similarly situated California consumers against the Company and
several of the same defendants as named in the  City of Los
Angeles  action (discussed above). 
The complaint alleges each of the defendants engaged in acts of unfair
competition in violation of Section 17200 relating to their respective
disclosures and charges to customers to cover taxes under the above ordinances
of the City of Los Angeles and other California cities, and service fees.  The complaint seeks restitution, relief for
alleged conversion, including punitive damages, injunctive relief, and
imposition of a constructive trust.  On July 1,
2005, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, adding claims pursuant to
California s Consumer Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code  1750,  et seq . and claims for breach of contract and the implied
duty of good faith and fair dealing.  On December 2,
2005, the court ordered limited discovery and ordered that motions challenging
the amended complaint would be coordinated with any similar motions filed in
the  City of Los Angeles  action.  Since that time, the Company has provided
limited discovery and opposed the plaintiffs  motion to compel further
discovery.  

The Company intends to defend
vigorously against the claims in all of the aforementioned proceedings.  

Other
Possible Actions   

116  

At various times the Company has
also received inquiries or proposed tax assessments from municipalities and
other taxing jurisdictions relating to its charges and remittance of amounts to
cover state and local hotel occupancy and other related taxes.  The City of New Orleans, Louisiana, the City
of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Miami-Dade County, Florida, Broward County,
Florida, the City of Anaheim, California, and state tax officials from
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Indiana, among others, have begun formal or
informal administrative procedures or stated that they may assert claims
against the Company relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel occupancy
or related taxes.  In addition, the State
of New Jersey Department of Taxation has begun an audit related to the state s
Corporation Business Tax.  The Company is
unable at this time to predict whether any such proceedings or assertions will
result in litigation.  

The Company intends to defend
vigorously against the claims in all of the aforementioned proceedings.  

Litigation
Related to Securities Matters   

On March 16, March 26,
April 27, and June 5, 2001, respectively, four putative class action
complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York naming priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul
Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston Robertson Stephens, Inc.
and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants (01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576,
01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).  Shives  et al . v. Bank of America Securities LLC  et al ., 01 Civ. 4956, also names other
defendants and states claims unrelated to the Company.  The complaints allege, among other things,
that priceline.com and the individual defendants violated the federal
securities laws by issuing and selling priceline.com common stock in
priceline.com s March 1999 initial public offering without disclosing to
investors that some of the underwriters in the offering, including the lead
underwriters, had allegedly solicited and received excessive and undisclosed
commissions from certain investors.  By
Orders of Judge Mukasey and Judge Scheindlin dated August 8, 2001, these
cases were consolidated for pre-trial purposes with hundreds of other cases,
which contain allegations concerning the allocation of shares in the initial
public offerings of companies other than priceline.com, Inc.  By Order of Judge Scheindlin dated August 14,
2001, the following cases were consolidated for all purposes:  01 Civ. 2261; 01 Civ. 2576; and 01 Civ.
3590.  On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs
filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint in these cases.  This Consolidated Amended Class Action
Complaint makes similar allegations to those described above but with respect
to both the Company s March 1999 initial public offering and the Company s
August 1999 second public offering of common stock.  The named defendants are priceline.com, Inc.,
Richard S. Braddock, Jay S. Walker, Paul E. Francis, Nancy B. Peretsman,
Timothy G. Brier, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Goldman Sachs  
Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., Robertson
Stephens, Inc. (as successor-in-interest to BancBoston), Credit Suisse
First Boston Corp. (as successor-in-interest to Donaldson Lufkin  
Jenrette Securities Corp.), Allen   Co., Inc. and Salomon Smith
Barney, Inc.  Priceline, Richard
Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Nancy Peretsman, and Timothy Brier,
together with other issuer defendants in the consolidated litigation, filed a
joint motion to dismiss on July 15, 2002. 
On November 18, 2002, the cases against the individual defendants
were dismissed without prejudice and without costs.  In addition, counsel for plaintiffs and the
individual defendants executed Reservation of Rights and Tolling Agreements,
which toll the statutes of limitations on plaintiffs  claims against those
individuals.  On February 19, 2003,
Judge Scheindlin issued an Opinion and Order granting in part and denying in
part the issuer s motion.  None of the
claims against the Company were dismissed. 
On June 26, 2003, counsel for the plaintiff class announced that
they and counsel for the issuers had agreed to the form of a Memorandum of
Understanding (the  Memorandum ) to settle claims against the issuers.  The terms of that Memorandum provide that
class members will be guaranteed $1 billion in recoveries by the insurers of
the issuers and that settling issuer defendants will assign to the class
members certain claims that they may have against the underwriters.  Issuers also agree to limit their abilities
to bring certain claims against the underwriters.  If recoveries in excess of $1 billion are obtained
by the class from any non-settling defendants, the settling defendants 
monetary obligations to the class plaintiffs will be satisfied; any amount
recovered from the underwriters that is less than $1 billion will be   

117  

paid by the insurers on behalf of the issuers.  The Memorandum, which is subject to the
approval of each issuer, was approved by a special committee of the
priceline.com Board of Directors on Thursday, July 3, 2003.  Thereafter, counsel for the plaintiff class
and counsel for the issuers agreed to the form of a Stipulation and Agreement
of Settlement with Defendant Issuers and Individuals ( Settlement Agreement ).  The Settlement Agreement implements the
Memorandum and contains the same material provisions.  On June 11, 2004, a special committee of
the priceline.com Board of Directors authorized the Company s counsel to
execute the Settlement Agreement on behalf of the Company.  The Settlement Agreement was submitted to the
Court for approval.  Subsequently, the
Second Circuit reversed the District Court s granting of class certification in
certain of the related class actions.  As
a result, the parties entered into a stipulation and order dated June 25,
2007 which terminated the Settlement Agreement. 
The Company intends to vigorously defend against the claims in all these
proceedings.  

On May 3, 2007, the Company entered into a
Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement ( Settlement Agreement ) to settle a
class action lawsuit brought after its announcement that third quarter 2000
revenues would not meet expectations. 
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the class received $80
million in return for a release, with prejudice, of all claims against the
Company and the individual defendants (the  Settling Defendants ) that are
related to the purchase of the Company s securities by class members during the
class period.  The Company s insurance
carriers funded $30 million of the settlement. 
As a result, the Company recorded a 2007 net charge of approximately
$55.4 million representing its share of the cost to settle the litigation
and cover related expenses.  

The Company will
continue to assess the risks of the potential financial impact of these
matters, and to the extent appropriate, it will reserve for those estimates of
liabilities.  

Other Litigation   

On January 6, 1999, we received notice that a
third party patent applicant and patent attorney, Thomas G. Woolston,
purportedly had filed in December 1998 with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office a request to declare an interference between a patent application
filed by Woolston and our U.S. Patent 5,794,207.  We are currently awaiting information from
the Patent Office regarding whether it will initiate an interference
proceeding.  

From time to time, we have been and expect to
continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course
of business, including claims of alleged infringement of third party
intellectual property rights.  Such
claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant
financial and managerial resources, divert management s attention from our
business objectives and could adversely affect our business, results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

Employment Contracts   

The
Company has employment agreements with certain members of senior management
that provide for cash severance payments of up to approximately $17 million,
accelerated vesting of equity instruments, including without limitation,
restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units upon,
among other things, death or a termination without  cause  or  good reason , as
those terms are defined in the agreements, and a gross-up for the payment of  golden
parachute  excise taxes.  In addition,
the agreements provide for the extension of health and insurance benefits after
termination for periods of up to three years.  

Operating Leases   

The
Company leases certain facilities and equipment through operating leases.
Rental expense for operating leases was approximately $4.4 million, $3.8
million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. The Company s executive, administrative, operating offices
and network operations center are located in approximately 92,000 square feet
of leased office   

118  

space located in Norwalk, Connecticut. 
Booking.com Limited leases approximately 11,000 square feet of office
space primarily in Cambridge, England. 
Booking.com B.V. leases approximately 85,000 square feet of office space
primarily in Amsterdam, Netherlands. 
Minimum payments for operating leases having initial or remaining
non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows (in thousands):  

Airline Excise Tax Refund   

The
online travel industry received guidance in the fourth quarter of 2006 in the
form of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the fee earned by
online intermediaries in connection with the facilitation of the purchase of
airline tickets is not subject to Federal Excise Tax.  Due to the prior
lack of clear guidance related to the application of federal excise taxes to
amounts earned by online travel intermediaries, the Company historically remitted
such taxes on the amounts it earned for facilitating the purchase of airline
tickets.  The tax at issue was on the amounts earned by the Company and
was not added to the ticket price paid by its customers.  Accordingly, the
Company sought refunds of the taxes it paid while the on-line travel industry
pursued clarification on the issue.  The
Company recorded refunds received in the amount of $18.6 million in revenue,
plus $3.3 million of interest income during the year ended December 31,
2007.  

18.           BENEFIT PLAN  

Priceline.com
has a defined contribution 401(k) savings plan (the  Plan ) covering all
U.S. employees who are at least 21 years old. The Plan allows eligible
employees to contribute up to 75% of their eligible earnings, subject to a
statutorily prescribed annual limit.  All
participants are fully vested in their contributions and investment earnings.
As of January 1, 2007, the Company instituted a 50% match of employee
contributions up to 6% of qualified compensation.   The Company also maintains
certain other defined contribution plans outside of the United States for which
it provides 50% of the contributions for participating employees.   The   Company s matching
contributions during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005   were
approximately $0.9 million, $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively.  

19.           GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION  

The geographic information
is based upon the location of Company s subsidiaries (in thousands).  

119  

20.           SELECTED QUARTERLY
FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)  

The
following table sets forth certain key interim financial information for the
years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006:  

2  1.             RESTATEMENT OF   CASH FLOWS AND MINORITY INTEREST PRESENTATION  

Subsequent to the
issuance of the Company s 2006 consolidated financial statements, management identified
and corrected a classification error in the presentation of purchases and sales
of shares in subsidiary held by minority interest of ($19.8 million) and $18.7
million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, to
reflect them as investing activities rather than financing activities in the
consolidated statements of cash flows since the Company accounted for such
acquisitions under the purchase accounting method. The classification error had
no impact on the Company s operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents
balances, consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of
operations.  The impact of the classification
error on presentation in the consolidated statements of cash flows for the
years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 is summarized as follows:  

Additionally,
management identified and corrected a classification error in the presentation
of minority interest in the consolidated balance sheet. Minority interest in
the amount of $22.5 million as of December 31, 2006, was previously classified
as a liability and is now presented in the mezzanine section of the
consolidated balance sheet between liabilities and stockholders  equity. The
classification error had no impact on the Company s consolidated assets, the total
liabilities and stockholders  equity line item in the consolidated balance
sheets, consolidated statement of operations or consolidated statements of cash
flows.  

120  

INDEX TO
EXHIBITS   

Exhibit  
  Number   

Description   

2.1(x)  

Share Sale and
  Purchase Agreement, dated July 14, 2005 by and between the Registrant,
  ACME Limited and Blue Sky Investments B.V.  

2.2(aa)  

Articles of
  Association of priceline.com International Limited, as amended.  

3.1(a)  

Amended and
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant.  

3.2(b)  

Certificate of
  Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
  Registrant  

3.3(a)  

By-Laws of the
  Registrant.  

4.1  

Reference is
  hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.  

4.2(a)  

Specimen
  Certificate for Registrant s Common Stock.  

4.3(a)  

Amended and
  Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 8, 1998,
  among the Registrant and certain stockholders of the Registrant.  

4.4(b)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2003, among the Registrant and
  the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.5(b)  

Indenture, dated
  as of August 1, 2003, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.6(b)  

Supplemental
  Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2003, between the Registrant and
  American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.7(d)  

Second
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.8(c)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004, among priceline.com
  Incorporated and the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.9(c)  

Indenture, dated
  as of June 28, 2004, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.10(d)  

First
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.11(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A
  Convertible Redeemable PIK Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.12(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series B
  Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.13(gg)  

Indenture, dated as of September 27, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.14(gg)  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2006,
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as
  representative of the Initial Purchasers.  

4.15(ii)  

Indenture relating to New 1.00% Notes, dated as of November 6,
  2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and
  Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.16(ii)  

Indenture relating to New 2.25% Notes, dated as of November 6,
  2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and
  Trust Company, as Trustee.  

10.1(a)+  

1997 Omnibus
  Plan of the Registrant.  

10.2(e)+  

1999 Omnibus
  Plan of the Registrant, as amended.  

10.3(f)+  

Priceline.com
  2000 Employee Stock Option Plan.  

10.4(e)+  

Form of
  Stock Option Grant Agreement.  

10.5(e)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants to Board of Directors.  

10.6(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.).  

10.7(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.).  

10.8(g)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement with covenants (U.S.).  

10.9(g)+  

Employment
  Agreement, dated February 7, 2005, by and between Jeffery H. Boyd and
  the Registrant.  

10.10(g)+  

Restricted Stock
  Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the
  Registrant.  

10.12(f)+  

Employment
  Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, between the Registrant and Robert
  Mylod Jr.  

10.13(j)+  

Amendment to
  Employment Agreement, dated June 15, 2001, by and between the Registrant
  and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.14(h)+  

Stock Option and
  Restricted Stock Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, by and between the
  Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.15(g)+  

Restricted Stock
  Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and the
  Registrant.  

10.16(h)+  

Employment
  Agreement, dated December 20, 2000, by and between the Registrant and
  Ronald Rose.  

121  

10.17(k)+  

Employment
  Agreement, dated February 8, 2006, by and between the Registrant and
  Peter J. Millones.  

10.18(i)+  

Employment
  Letter Agreement, dated January 2, 2002, by and between the Registrant
  and Brett Keller.  

10.19(g)+  

Employment
  Agreement, dated February 7, 2005, by and between the Registrant and
  Chris Soder.  

10.20(a)*  

General
  Agreement, dated August 31, 1998, by and among the Registrant, Priceline
  Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.21(a)*  

Airline
  Participation Agreement, dated August 31, 1998, by and among the
  Registrant, Priceline  
  Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.22(a)*  

Amendment to the
  Airline Participation Agreement and the General Agreement, dated
  December 31, 1998, between and among the Registrant, Priceline
  Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.23(l)  

Letter Agreement, dated
  July 16, 1999, between the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.24(m)  

Master Agreement, dated
  November 17, 1999, between the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.25(m)  

Amendment to the
  Airline Participation Agreement and the General Agreement, dated
  November 17, 1999, by and among the Registrant, Priceline
  Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

10.26(n)  

Stockholder Agreement,
  dated February 6, 2001, between the Registrant and Delta Air
  Lines, Inc.  

10.27(n)  

Warrant Agreement,
  dated February 6, 2001, by and between the Registrant and Delta Air
  Lines, Inc.  

10.28(o)*  

Formation
  and Funding Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2000, by and between the
  Registrant and Alliance Partners, L.P.  

10.29(p)  

Stock Purchase
  Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2001, among the Registrant, Prime
  Pro Group Limited and Forthcoming Era Limited.  

10.30(p)  

Registration Rights
  Agreement, dated as of February 15, 2001, among the Registrant, Prime
  Pro Group Limited and Forthcoming Era Limited.  

10.31(q)  

Stockholders  Agreement
  by and among the Registrant, Prime Pro Group Limited, Forthcoming Era
  Limited, Potton Resources Limited and Ultimate Pioneer Limited, dated as of
  June 5, 2001.  

10.32(i)  

Subscriber Entity
  Agreement, dated October 1, 2001, by and between Worldspan, L.P. and the
  Registrant.  

10.33(i)  

Amendment to the
  Worldspan, L.P. Subscriber Agreement, dated October 1, 2001, by and
  between Worldspan, L.P. and the Registrant.  

10.34(r)*  

Second Amendment to the
  Worldspan Subscriber Entity Agreement, dated April 1, 2003, by and
  between the Registrant and Worldspan, L.P.  

10.35(t)  

Restructuring
  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003, between Hutchison-Priceline
  Limited, Trio Happiness Limited and PCLN Asia, Inc.  

10.36(t)  

Amended and Restated
  Securityholders  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003, among
  Hutchison-Priceline Limited, PCLN Asia, Inc. and Trio Happiness Limited.  

10.37(t)  

Master Agreement, dated
  as of November 20, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston
  International and the Registrant.  

10.38(t)  

Schedule to the Master
  Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003 between Credit Suisse First
  Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.39(t)  

Letter Agreement, dated
  November 26, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston International and
  pricleine.com Incorporated.  

10.40(t)  

Securities Purchase
  Agreement dated as of May 3, 2004, between Lowestfare.com Incorporated,
  Hilton Electronic Distribution Systems, LLC, HT-HDS, Inc., MI
  Distribution, LLC, Starwood Resventure LLC, Pegasus Business Intelligence, LP
  and Travelweb LLC.  

10.41(v)  

Sale and
  Purchase Agreement dated September 21, 2004 by and among Priceline.com
  Holdco U.K. Limited and the security holders of Active Hotels Limited listed
  therein.  

10.42(k)+  

Form of
  priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for
  Non-Employee Directors.  

10.43(y)+  

Stock Option Grant
  Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna.  

10.44(y)+  

Indemnification
  Agreement, dated June 2, 2005, by and between the Registrant and
  Marshall Loeb.  

10.45(z)+  

Employment Agreement,
  dated September 21, 2004, by and between Andrew J. Phillipps and Active
  Hotels Limited.  

10.46(z)+  

Subscription Letter for
  Purchased Ordinary Shares of Active Hotels Limited, dated September 21,
  2004, with Andrew J. Phillipps.  

10.47(z)+  

Subscription Letter for
  Granted Ordinary Shares of Active Hotels Limited, dated September 21,
  2004, with Andrew J. Phillipps.  

122  

10.48(z)+  

Terms and
  Conditions of Participation in the priceline.com International Limited
  Management Incentive Plan, dated July 14, 2005, by and b  etween Andrew
  J. Phillipps and priceline.com International Limited.  

10.49(bb)+  

Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between the
  Registrant and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.50(bb)+  

Restricted Stock Grant Agreement, dated October 19, 2005,
  reflecting grant of restricted stock to Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.51(bb)+  

Part-Time Employment and Transition Agreement, dated October 20,
  2005, by and between the Registrant and Thomas P. D Angelo.  

10.52(cc)+  

Employment Agreement, dated July 14, 2005 between Bookings Europe
  B.V. and Stef Norden.  

10.53(cc)+  

Form of Registrant s 1999 Omnibus Plan Award Agreement   Restricted
  Stock Units for Employees in the Netherlands.  

10.54(dd)+  

Form of Performance Share Agreement under the priceline.com
  Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan.  

10.55(ee)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated September 5, 2006, among
  priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II
  thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.56(ff)  

Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2006, between
  priceline.com Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as
  representative of the Initial Purchasers.  

10.57(ff)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated
  as of September 21, 2006.  

10.58(ff)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated
  as of September 21, 2006.  

10.59(ff)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and
  priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.60(ff)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and
  priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.61(hh)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year
  Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs  
  Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and
  Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between
  Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.62(hh)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year
  Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
  Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as
  of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share
  Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  
  Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.63(jj)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated December 4, 2006, among
  priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II
  thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.64(kk)+  

Priceline.com
  Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated as of February 20, 2007.  

10.65(ll)  

Stipulation and
  Agreement of Settlement between P. Warren Ross, Thomas Linton, and John
  Anderson and the class and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  May 3, 2007.  

10.66(mm)  

Credit Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 among
  priceline.com Incorporated, RBC citizens, National Association, and Bank of
  Scotland plc as co-documentation Agents, bank of America, N.A. as syndication
  Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as Administrative Agent.  

10.67(mm)  

Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 by
  and among priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
  Association.  

10.68(mm)  

Guaranty dated as of September 26, 2007 by each of the
  subsidiaries of priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
  Association.  

10.69*  

Equity Purchase Agreement by and among priceline.com Mauritius Co.
  Ltd, priceline.com Incorporated and the shareholders of Agoda Company Ltd.
  and members of AGIP LLC dated November 6, 2007.  

10.70(nn)+  

Performance
  share unit agreement dated December 1, 2007.  

12.1  

Calculation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

14(t)  

Priceline.com Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  

21  

List of Subsidiaries.  

23.1  

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP.  

24.1  

Power of Attorney (included in the Signature Page).  

31.1  

Certificate of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 302 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  

Certificate of Robert J. Mylod Jr., pursuant to Section 302 of
  the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1(w)  

Certification of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 906 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of
  Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code).  

123  

124  

<EX-10.69>
 2
 a08-2574_1ex10d69.htm
 EX-10.69

Exhibit 10.69   

CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT HAS BEEN REQUESTED WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN
PORTIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. CONFIDENTIAL PORTIONS HAVE BEEN OMITTED AND FILED
SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.   

EQUITY PURCHASE AGREEMENT   

by and among   

priceline.com Mauritius Co. Ltd,   

priceline.com Incorporated   

and   

the Shareholders of Agoda Company, Ltd. and Members of AGIP LLC   

November 6, 2007   

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page   

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

i  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

ii  

Schedule
  A  

List
  of Sellers and Equity Interests  

Schedule
  B  

Option
  Holders, Options and Option Shares  

Schedule
  C  

Earnout
  Amount Calculation and Earnout Participants  

Schedule
  D  

List
  of Employees Entering Employment Agreements  

Schedule
  E  

List
  of Continuing Directors and Officers  

Schedule
  F  

List
  of Employees to execute IP Assignment and Release Agreements  

Schedule
  G  

Certain
  Third-Party Claim Procedures  

Schedule
  H  

Estimated
  Closing Balance Sheet  

Exhibit A  

Share
  Transfer Forms  

Exhibit B  

Seller
  Releases  

Exhibit C  

Secretary s
  Certificate  

Exhibit D  

Escrow
  Agreement  

Exhibit E  

Option
  Cancellation Agreements  

Exhibit F  

Restricted
  Stock Unit Agreements  

Exhibit G  

Performance
  Share Unit Agreements  

Exhibit H  

Employee
  IP Assignment and Release Agreements  

Exhibit I  

Convertible
  Debt Assignment and Transfer Documents  

Exhibit J  

Parity
  Option Assignment and Transfer Documents  

Exhibit K  

Standard
  Terms of Use Policy  

Exhibit L  

Form Affiliate
  Marketing Agreement  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

iii  

EQUITY PURCHASE AGREEMENT   

  This Equity Purchase Agreement (the   Agreement  ) is made as of November 6,
2007, by and among priceline.com Mauritius Co. Ltd, a Mauritius corporation (  Share
Purchaser  ) and priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (  Priceline
US  ) (Share Purchaser and Priceline US together, the   Purchasers  )
and the shareholders of Agoda Company, Ltd., a Mauritius corporation (the   Company  )
and membership interest holders of AGIP LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company (  AGIP  ) in each case as identified on  Schedule A 
(together, the   Sellers  ).  

   PREAMBLE   

  WHEREAS, as of the Closing Date (as defined below),
certain of the Sellers are the only members in AGIP (together, the   AGIP
Sellers  ) and the Sellers are all of the shareholders in the Company
(together, the   Share Sellers  ).  

  WHEREAS, the Share Sellers desire to sell, and Share
Purchaser desires to purchase, all of the issued and outstanding shares of the
Company, including the Option Shares (as defined below) to be sold by the
Option Holders (as defined below) (together, the   Shares  ), and the AGIP
Sellers desire to sell, and Priceline US desires to purchase, all of the
membership interests in AGIP (the   Membership Interests  ), in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement.  

  WHEREAS, RR (as defined below) desires to sell, and
Share Purchaser desires to purchase, all rights, title and interest in the
Parity Option (as defined below) and the Convertible Debt (as defined below)
(the Parity Option, the Convertible Debt, the Shares and the Membership
Interests being referred to herein collectively as the   Equity Interests  ),
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.  

  NOW, THEREFORE, intending to be legally bound and in consideration of
the mutual provisions set forth in this Agreement and for other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:  

   ARTICLE 1 
DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION   

   Section 1.1                 Definitions .  For the purposes of this Agreement and the Ancillary
Agreements:  

    AAP   means Anacott Asia Pacific Co., Ltd., a Thai company.  

    Acquired Companies   means, collectively, (a) the Agoda
Companies; and (b) AGIP.  

    Affiliate   means,
with respect to a specified Person, a Person that directly, or indirectly through
one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common
control with, the specified Person.  In
addition to the foregoing, if the specified Person is an individual, the term  Affiliate 
also includes (a) the individual s spouse, (b) the members of the
immediate family (including parents, siblings and children) of the individual
or of the individual s spouse and (c) any corporation, limited liability
company, general or limited partnership, trust, association or other business
or investment entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more
intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with any
of the foregoing individuals.  For
purposes of this definition, the term  control  (including the terms  controlling, 
 controlled by  and  under common control with ) means the possession, direct
or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management
and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities,
by contract or otherwise.  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

Agoda Companies   means the Company, Agoda Singapore and Agoda
Thailand.  

    Agoda Singapore   means Agoda Company Pte. Ltd., a Singapore
company.  

    Agoda Thailand   means Agoda Services Co., Ltd., a Thai company.  

    Ancillary Agreements   means, collectively, the Equity Transfer
Documents, Option Share Transfer Documents, Seller Releases, Employment
Agreements, Escrow Agreement, Option Cancellation Agreements, Convertible Debt
Assignment and Transfer Documents, Parity Option Assignment and Transfer
Documents; Restricted Stock Unit Agreements, Performance Share Unit Agreements
and Employee IP Assignment and Release Agreements.  

    A.T.   means A.T., Inc., a Delaware corporation.  

    Benefit Obligation   means the Acquired Companies  aggregate
financial liability to provide all current, projected and contingent benefits
to an employee or former employee of an Acquired Company, or his beneficiaries
or dependents, as the case may be, under the terms of a Company Plan,
regardless of whether an amount less than such aggregate financial liability is
reflected on the employer s financial statements under applicable tax or
accounting rules.  

    Business   means the business of the Acquired Companies.  

  [***] means [***].  

    Code   means the  U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

    Company Plan   means each agreement, plan, program, fund,
policy, contract or arrangement (whether written or unwritten) providing
compensation, benefits, pension, retirement, superannuation, profit sharing,
stock bonus, stock option, stock purchase, phantom or stock equivalent, bonus,
thirteenth month, incentive, deferred compensation, hospitalization, medical,
dental, vision, vacation, life insurance, death benefit, sick pay, disability,
severance, termination indemnity, redundancy pay, educational assistance,
holiday pay, housing assistance, moving expense reimbursement, fringe benefit
or similar employee benefits (regardless of whether it is mandated under local
law, voluntary, private, funded, unfunded, financed by the purchase of
insurance, contributory or non-contributory) maintained or contributed to by
any Acquired Company or Affiliate thereof (or that has been maintained or
contributed to in the last six years by any Acquired Company or Affiliate
thereof) for the benefit of any current or former director, officer, employee
or consultant of any Acquired Company or Affiliate thereof, or with respect to
which any Acquired Company or Affiliate thereof has or may have any Liability;
provided that any governmental plan or program requiring the mandatory payment
of social insurance taxes or similar contributions to a governmental fund with
respect to the wages of an employee will not be considered a  Company Plan  for
these purposes.  

    Contract   means any contract, agreement, lease, license,
warranty, guaranty, mortgage, note, bond, option, warrant or other binding
commitment.  

    Convertible Debt   means the debt owed by the Company to RR
which, as of the Closing Date, is in the principal amount of [***], and which may be converted into shares
of the Company pursuant to the Convertible Loan Agreement.  

    Convertible Loan
Agreement   means that certain Convertible Loan Agreement, dated July 1,
2002, between the Company (f/k/a Anacott Corp) and [***] (as amended).  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

2  

Encumbrance   means any charge, claim, mortgage, servitude,
easement, right of way, community or other marital property interest, covenant,
equitable interest, license, lease or other possessory interest, lien, option,
pledge, security interest, preference, priority, right of first refusal,
restriction (other than any restriction on transferability imposed by any
applicable foreign, federal or state securities Laws) or other encumbrance of
any kind or nature whatsoever (whether absolute or contingent).  

    Environmental Law   means any Law relating to the environment,
natural resources, Hazardous Material or occupational health and safety related
to exposure to Hazardous Materials, including any Law pertaining to (a) the
manufacture, treatment, storage, disposal, generation and transportation of
Hazardous Material and (b) the release or threatened release into the
environment of Hazardous Material, including emissions, discharges, injections,
spills, escapes or dumping of Hazardous Material.  

    ERISA   means the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended.  

    ERISA Affiliate   means any other Person that, together with an
Acquired Company, would be treated as a single employer under Section 414
of the Code, whether or not actually subject to the Code.  

  [***] means an amount equal to [***].  

    GAAP   means generally accepted accounting principles for
financial reporting pursuant to Mauritian International Financial Reporting
Standards, as in effect as of the date of this Agreement.  

    Governmental Authority   means any (a) federal, state,
local, municipal, foreign or other government, (b) department, agency or
instrumentality of a foreign or other government, including any state-owned or
state controlled instrumentality of a foreign or other government, (c) governmental
or quasi-governmental authority of any nature (including any governmental
agency, branch, department or other entity and any court or other tribunal), or
(d) body exercising, or entitled to exercise, any administrative,
executive, judicial, legislative, police, regulatory or taxing authority or
power of any nature.  

    Governmental Authorization   means any approval, consent,
ratification, waiver, license, permit, registration or other authorization
issued, granted, given or otherwise made available by or under the authority of
any Governmental Authority or pursuant to any Law.  

    Hazardous Material   means any waste or other substance that is
listed, defined, designated or classified as, or otherwise determined to be,
hazardous, radioactive or toxic or a pollutant or a contaminant under any
Environmental Law, including petroleum and all derivatives thereof and asbestos
or asbestos-containing materials.  

    Indebtedness   means, with respect to any Person, without
duplication, the following: (a) all obligations of an Acquired Company for
borrowed money; (b) all obligations of an Acquired Company evidenced by
bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments; (c) all obligations of
others for borrowed money secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation
has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any
Encumbrance on property owned or acquired by an Acquired Company, whether or
not the obligation secured thereby has been assumed; (d) all guarantees by
an Acquired Company of obligations of others for borrowed money; and (e) all
obligations, contingent or otherwise, of an Acquired Company as an account
party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty.  

    Intellectual Property  
means all of the following anywhere in the world and all legal rights, title or
interest in the following arising under Law, whether or not filed, perfected,
registered or recorded and whether now or later existing, filed, issued or
acquired: (a) all patents and applications for patents,  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

3  

including any reissues,
reexaminations, divisions, renewals, extensions, provisionals, continuations
and continuations in part; (b) all copyrights, copyright registrations and
copyright applications, including any renewals or extensions, copyrightable
works and all other corresponding rights; (c) all mask works, mask work
registrations and mask work applications, including any renewals or extensions,
and all other corresponding rights; (d) all trade dress and trade names,
logos, Internet addresses and domain names, trademarks and service marks and
any registrations and applications therefor, including any intent to use
applications, registrations on any supplemental registry (or the equivalent)
and any renewals or extensions, all other indicia of commercial source or
origin and all goodwill associated with any of the foregoing; (e) all inventions
(whether patentable or unpatentable and whether or not reduced to practice),
know how, technology, technical data, trade secrets, confidential business
information, manufacturing and production processes and techniques, research
and development information, financial, marketing and business data, pricing
and cost information, business and marketing plans, advertising and promotional
materials, customer, distributor, reseller and supplier lists and information,
correspondence, records, and other documentation, and other proprietary
information of every kind; (f) all computer software (including source and
object code), firmware, development tools, algorithms, files, records,
technical drawings and related documentation, data and manuals; (g) all
databases and data collections; and (h) all copies and tangible
embodiments of any of the foregoing (in whatever form or medium).  

    Interest   means an interest rate of [***] (calculated based on the actual number of days elapsed in a
year consisting of 365 days).  

    IP Assets   means the Intellectual Property (including the IP
License) transferred to AGIP by A.T. prior to the Closing Date under the IP
Assignment Agreement by and between A.T. and AGIP dated November 5, 2007    and the Assignment and Assumption Agreement  by and between A.T. and AGIP dated November 5,
2007 .  

    IP License   means the Trademark and Domain Name License and
Option Agreement, dated February 10, 2004 between AGIP and the Company, as
amended.  

    IRS   means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and, to the extent
relevant, the Department of Treasury.  

    Judgment   means any order, injunction, judgment, decree,
ruling, assessment or arbitration award of any Governmental Authority or
arbitrator.  

    Knowledge   means [***].  

    Law   means any federal, state, local, municipal, foreign,
international, multinational, or other constitution, law, statute, treaty,
rule, regulation, ordinance or code.  

    Liability   includes liabilities, debts or other obligations of
any nature, whether known or unknown, absolute, accrued, contingent,
liquidated, unliquidated or otherwise, due or to become due or otherwise, and
whether or not required to be reflected on a balance sheet prepared in
accordance with GAAP.  

    LIBOR   means the
average interest rate major international banks charge each other for
three-month deposits as published by the  Wall Street Journal 
and any change in the three-month LIBOR will be applicable to the interest rate
charge.  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

4  

Loss   means any loss, Judgment, damage, fine, penalty, expense
(including reasonable attorneys  or other professional fees and expenses and
court costs), Liability or other cost or expense, whether or not involving the
claim of another Person.  

    Material Adverse Effect   means any violation, circumstance,
change or effect, either individually or in the aggregate with all other
violations, circumstances, changes or effects, that has a material adverse
effect on the business, assets, Liabilities, condition (financial or
otherwise), operating results or operations of the Acquired Companies, taken as
a whole, or the ability of the Sellers to perform their obligations under this
Agreement [***].  

    Management Shareholders   means the shareholders in the Company
identified as management shareholders in  Schedule A .  

    MK   means Michael Kenny of [***].  

    Occupational Safety and Health Law   means any Law designed to
provide safe and healthful working conditions and to reduce occupational safety
and health hazards, and any program, whether governmental or private (such as
those promulgated or sponsored by industry associations and insurance
companies), designed to provide safe and healthful working conditions.  

    Options   means the vested options to purchase Class B
Shares in the Company as set forth on  Schedule B .  

    Option Shares   means the Class B Shares in the Company
that would be issued to the Option Holders upon exercise of their Options as set
forth on  Schedule B .  

    Option Holders   means the holders of Options as set forth on  Schedule
B .  

    Parity Option   means [***].  

    Parity Option Agreement   means that certain Shareholders
Agreement, dated July 1, 2002, between RR and MK (as amended).  

    Permitted Encumbrances   means (a) statutory liens of
carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and other similar Persons
incurred in the ordinary course of business for sums not yet due and payable
and that do not impair the conduct of any Acquired Company s business, and (b) statutory
liens for Taxes not yet due and payable and for which adequate reserves have
been recorded on the Balance Sheet, and (c) Encumbrances that are
immaterial in character, amount and extent and which do not detract from the
value or marketability of, or interfere with the present use of, the affected
property.  

    Person   means an individual or an entity, including a
corporation, limited liability company, general or limited partnership, trust,
association or other business or investment entity, or any Governmental
Authority.  

    Proceeding   means any action, arbitration, audit, examination,
investigation, hearing, litigation or suit (whether civil, criminal,
administrative, judicial or investigative, whether formal or informal, and
whether public or private) commenced, brought, conducted or heard by or before,
or otherwise involving, any Governmental Authority or arbitrator.  

    RR   means Robert Rosenstein  [***].  

[***] =
Confidential Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has
been filed separately with the Commission.  

5  

Subsidiary   means each of Agoda Singapore and Agoda Thailand.  

    Tax   means (a) any federal, state, local, foreign and
other tax, charge, fee, duty (including customs duty), levy or assessment,
including any income, gross receipts, net proceeds, alternative or add-on
minimum, corporation, ad valorem, turnover, real and personal property
(tangible and intangible), sales, use, franchise, excise, value added, stamp,
leasing, lease, user, transfer, fuel, excess profits, profits, occupational,
premium, interest equalization, windfall profits, severance, license,
registration, payroll, environmental (including taxes under Section 59A of
the Code), capital stock, capital duty, disability, estimated, gains, wealth,
welfare, employee s income withholding, other withholding, unemployment and
social security or other tax of whatever kind (including any fee, assessment
and other charges in the nature of or in lieu of any tax) that is imposed by
any Governmental Authority, (b) any interest, fines, penalties or
additions resulting from, attributable to, or incurred in connection with any
items described in this paragraph or any related contest or dispute and (c) any
items described in this paragraph that are attributable to another Person but
that any Acquired Company is liable to pay by Law, by Contract or otherwise,
whether or not disputed.  

    Tax Return   means any report, return, estimated tax payment,
form, declaration, claim for refund, or information return or statement related
to Taxes, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and including any
amendment thereof.  

   Section 1.2                 Additional
Defined Terms .  For purposes of this
Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, the following terms have the meanings
specified in the indicated Section of this Agreement:  

Defined
  Term   

Section   

AAP
  Assets  

2.6(a)  

Adjustment
  Calculation  

2.4(a)  

Adjustment
  Notice  

2.4(a)  

AGIP  

First
  Paragraph  

AGIP
  Sellers  

Preamble  

Agreement  

First
  Paragraph  

Balance
  Sheet  

3.5(a)  

Cap  

7.6(a)  

Certain
  Nations  

3.19(f)  

Claim
  Amount  

7.6(a)  

Claim
  Notice  

7.3(a)  

Class A
  Shares  

3.4(a)  

Class B
  Shares  

3.4(a)  

Closing  

2.5  

Closing
  Balance Sheet  

2.4(a)  

Closing
  Date  

2.5  

Company  

First
  Paragraph  

Company
  Intellectual Property  

3.12(a)  

Competing
  Activity  

5.3(a)  

Confidential
  Information  

5.2(a)  

Confidentiality
  Agreement  

5.2(a)  

Controlling
  Party  

7.4(f)  

Convertible
  Debt Assignment and Transfer Documents  

2.6(a)  

Covered
  Claims  

Schedule
  G  

Disputed
  Amount  

7.7(c)  

Dispute
  Notice  

2.4(b)  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

6  

Earnout
  Amount  

Schedule
  C  

Earnout
  Participants  

Schedule
  C  

Employee
  IP Assignment and Release Agreements  

2.6(a)  

Employment
  Agreements  

2.6(a)  

Equity
  Interests  

Preamble  

Equity
  Transfer Documents  

2.6(a)  

Escrow
  Agent  

2.6(a)  

Escrow
  Agreement  

2.6(a)  

Escrow
  Amount  

2.6(c)  

Escrow
  Fund  

2.7  

Estimated
  Closing Balance Sheet  

2.3  

[***]  

2.4(a)  

Financial
  Statements  

3.5(a)  

Indemnified
  Party  

7.3(a)  

Indemnifying
  Party  

7.3(a)  

Indemnity
  Determination Date  

7.3(h)  

Indemnity
  Final Determination  

7.3(h)  

Indemnity
  Interest Amount  

7.7(b)  

Independent
  Accounting Firm  

2.4(d)  

Initial
  Purchase Price  

2.2  

Interim
  Balance Sheet  

3.5(a)  

Key
  Employees  

3.9(j)  

Leased
  Real Property  

3.11(b)  

Membership
  Interests  

Preamble  

Non-Controlling
  Party  

7.4(f)  

Objection
  Notice  

7.3(b)  

Option
  Cancellation Agreements  

2.6(a)  

Option
  Share Transfer Documents  

2.6(a)  

Owned
  Intellectual Property  

3.12(a)  

Parity
  Option Assignment and Transfer Documents  

2.6(a)  

Performance
  Share Unit Agreements  

2.6(a)  

Purchase
  Price  

2.2  

Priceline
  US  

First
  Paragraph  

Pro
  Rata Portion  

Schedule
  C  

Purchasers  

First
  Paragraph  

Purchaser
  Disclosure Schedule  

Article 4  

Purchaser
  Indemnified Parties  

7.1  

Released
  Earnout Amount  

7.7(c)  

Restricted
  Stock Unit Agreements  

2.6(a)  

Scheduled
  Earnout Payment Date  

7.7(c)  

Securities
  Act  

3.4(c)  

Sellers  

First
  Paragraph  

Seller
  Disclosure Schedule  

Article 3  

Seller
  Releases  

2.6(a)  

Seller
  Representative  

8.1(a)  

Shares  

Preamble  

Share
  Purchaser  

First
  Paragraph  

Share
  Sellers  

Preamble  

Share
  Transfer Forms  

2.6(a)  

Third-Party
  Claim  

7.4(a)  

Third-Party
  Claim Notice  

7.4(a)  

[***] = Confidential Treatment
requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with
the Commission.  

7  

Section 1.3                 Construction .  Any reference in this Agreement to an  Article, 
 Section,   Exhibit  or  Schedule  refers to the corresponding Article,
Section, Exhibit or Schedule of or to this Agreement, unless the context
indicates otherwise.  The table of
contents and the headings of Articles and Sections are provided for convenience
only and are not intended to affect the construction or interpretation of this
Agreement.  All words used in this
Agreement should be construed to be of such gender or number as the
circumstances require.  The term  including 
means  including without limitation  and is intended by way of example and not
limitation.  Any reference to a statute
is deemed also to refer to any amendments or successor legislation, and all rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect at the relevant time.  Any reference to a Contract or other document
as of a given date means the Contract or other document as amended,
supplemented and modified from time to time through such date.  

   ARTICLE 2 
THE TRANSACTION   

   Section 2.1                 Purchase
and Sale .  In accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, at the Closing, (i) the Share Sellers will
sell, convey, assign, transfer and deliver to the Share Purchaser, and the
Share Purchaser will purchase and acquire from the Share Sellers, all of the
Shares, (ii) the AGIP Sellers will sell, convey, assign, transfer and
deliver to Priceline US, and Priceline US will purchase and acquire from the
AGIP Sellers, all of the Membership Interests and (iii) RR will sell,
convey, assign, transfer and deliver to the Share Purchaser, and the Share
Purchaser will purchase and acquire from RR, all rights, title and interest in
the Parity Option and the Convertible Debt.  

   Section 2.2                 Initial
Purchase Price .  The purchase price
for the Equity Interests (the   Purchase Price  ) will consist of (a) an
amount in cash equal to $15,074,692.50 (the   Initial Purchase Price  )
and (b) the Earnout Amount, if any, to be calculated and paid by the
Purchasers to the Earnout Participants in accordance with  Schedule C .  The Initial Purchase Price is subject to
adjustment in accordance with Section 2.4. 
A portion of the Initial Purchase Price shall be used to fund the Escrow
Fund and be payable in accordance with this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement,
and the remainder shall be paid at Closing to each Seller and each Option
Holder in accordance with  Schedule A  and  Schedule B ,
respectively).  

   Section 2.3                 Estimated
Closing Balance Sheet .  Attached as  Schedule
H  is an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Acquired Companies
prepared on an estimated basis as of the close of business on the Closing Date
(the   Estimated Closing Balance Sheet  ). 
The Estimated Closing Balance Sheet was prepared in accordance with GAAP
in a manner consistent with the methods and practices used to prepare the
Interim Balance Sheet.  The Estimated
Closing Balance Sheet also includes a statement setting forth the Sellers  good
faith calculation of the [***] based on
the Estimated Closing Balance Sheet.  

   Section 2.4                 Post-Closing
Adjustment .  

  (a)           Within [***] after
the Closing Date, the Purchasers will prepare and deliver to the Seller
Representative (with contemporaneous delivery to the Escrow Agent if either of
the Purchasers claim that it is entitled to payment pursuant to 
Section 2.4(f)) written notice (the   Adjustment Notice  ) containing
(i) an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Acquired Companies as
of the close of business on the Closing Date (the   Closing Balance Sheet  ),
(ii) the Purchasers  calculation of the  [***] based on the Closing Balance Sheet
(the [***]) and (iii) the Purchasers 
calculation of the amount of any payments  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

8  

required pursuant to Section 2.4(f) (the
  Adjustment Calculation  ).  The
Closing Balance Sheet will be prepared in good faith in accordance with GAAP in
a manner consistent with the methods and practices used to prepare the Interim
Balance Sheet.  For the purpose of the
Sellers  review of the Adjustment Notice, the Company shall provide and the
Purchasers shall allow the Company to provide the Sellers (y) access to
all books and records of the Acquired Companies relevant to the Sellers for the
purpose of this Section 2.4, during normal business hours and at the place
where the same are normally kept, with full right to make copies thereof or
take extracts therefrom and, further, (z) with such information as the
Sellers and their accountant shall reasonably require.  The information so made available to the
Sellers shall be subject to a duty of confidentiality except for disclosures
necessary for resolving any disputed item or otherwise required by applicable
Law or securities Laws, rules and regulations.  

  (b)           Within [***] after delivery of the Adjustment Notice,
the Seller Representative will deliver to the Purchasers 
(with contemporaneous delivery to the Escrow Agent if either of the Purchasers
claim that it is entitled to payment pursuant to   Section 2.4(f)) a written response
in which the Seller Representative will either:  

  (i)            agree in writing with the Adjustment Calculation, in
which case such calculation will be final and binding on the parties for
purposes of Section 2.4(f); or  

  (ii)           dispute the Adjustment Calculation by delivering to the
Purchasers a written notice (a   Dispute Notice  ) setting forth in
reasonable detail the basis for each such disputed item.  

  (c)             If
the Seller Representative fails to take either of the foregoing actions within [***] after delivery of the Adjustment Notice,
then the Sellers will be deemed to have irrevocably accepted the Adjustment
Calculation, in which case, the Adjustment Calculation will be final and
binding on the parties for purposes of Section 2.4(f).  

  (d)           If the Seller
Representative timely delivers a Dispute Notice to the Purchasers (with
contemporaneous delivery to the Escrow Agent if either of the Purchasers claim
that it is entitled to payment pursuant to Section 2.4(f)), then the
Purchasers and the Seller Representative will attempt in good faith, for a
period of [***], to agree on the
Adjustment Calculation for purposes of Section 2.4(f).  Any resolution by the Purchasers and the
Seller Representative during such [***]
period as to any disputed items will be final and binding on the parties for
purposes of Section 2.4(f).  If the
Purchasers and the Seller Representative do not resolve all disputed items by
the end of [***] after the date of
delivery of the Dispute Notice, then the Purchasers and the Seller
Representative will submit the remaining items in dispute to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for resolution, or if that firm is unwilling or
unable to serve, the Purchasers and the Seller Representative will engage
another mutually agreeable independent accounting firm of recognized
international standing, which firm is not the regular auditing firm of the
Purchasers or the Acquired Companies (such selected independent accounting firm,
the   Independent Accounting Firm  ). 
The Purchasers and the Seller Representative will instruct the
Independent Accounting Firm to render its determination with respect to the
items in dispute in a written report that specifies the conclusions of the
Independent Accounting Firm as to each item in dispute and the resulting
Adjustment Calculation.  The Purchasers
and the Seller Representative will each use their commercially reasonable
efforts to cause the Independent Accounting Firm to render its determination
within [***] after referral of the items
to such firm or as soon thereafter as reasonably practicable.  The Independent Accounting Firm s
determination of the Adjustment Calculation as set forth in its report will be
final and binding on the parties for purposes of Section 2.4(f).  [***]  

  (e)           For purposes of complying with this Section 2.4, the
Purchasers and the Seller Representative will furnish to each other and to the
Independent Accounting Firm such work papers and  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

9  

other documents and
information relating to the disputed issues as the Independent Accounting Firm
may request and are available to that party (or its independent public
accountants) and will be afforded the opportunity to present to the Independent
Accounting Firm any material related to the disputed items and to discuss the
items with the Independent Accounting Firm. 
The Purchasers may require that the Independent Accounting Firm enter
into a customary form of confidentiality agreement with respect to the work
papers and other documents and information regarding the Acquired Companies
provided to the Independent Accounting Firm pursuant to this Section 2.4.  

  (f)            If the [***] as finally determined pursuant to this Section 2.4
is [***], then the Sellers will pay to
the Purchasers the amount of such difference in cash plus Interest thereon from
the Closing Date through and including the date of such payment.  [***].  If the [***]
as finally determined pursuant to this Section 2.4 is [***], then the Purchasers will have no
obligation to pay any such difference to the Sellers.  

  (g)           Any payment to the
Purchasers pursuant Section 2.4(f) will first be satisfied by payment
from the Escrow Fund.  The Sellers will
be jointly and severally liable for any amount by which any payment required
under Section 2.4(f) exceeds the then balance of the Escrow Fund,
together with Interest from the Closing Date through and including the date of
such payment, which payment will be effected by wire transfer of immediately
available funds from the Sellers to an account or accounts designated by the
Purchasers.  Such payments will be made
within five business days following the final determination of the [***] in accordance with this Section 2.4.  

  (h)           Any payment made
pursuant to this Section 2.4 will be treated by the parties for all
purposes as an adjustment to the Initial Purchase Price and will not be subject
to offset for any reason.  The payment
pursuant to Section 2.4(f) will be applied in proportion to the
Initial Purchase Price to be received by each Seller as set forth on  Schedule
A  and  Schedule B .  

   Section 2.5                 Closing .  The consummation of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement (the   Closing  ) will take place at the
offices of Bryan Cave LLP, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10104, at
10:00 a.m., local time, on the date of this Agreement, or at such other
time and place as the Purchasers and the Sellers may agree in writing.  The time and date upon which the Closing
actually occurs is referred to in this Agreement as the   Closing Date .   

   Section 2.6                 Closing
Deliveries .  

  (a)           At the Closing, the
Sellers will deliver or cause to be delivered to the Purchasers:  

  (i)            such executed instruments of
transfer or other evidence sufficient to transfer all of the Equity Interests
to Purchasers (together, the   Equity Transfer Documents ) , including
certificates representing the Shares and statutory share transfer forms (the   Share
Transfer Forms  ) in the form of  Exhibit A  executed by each
Share Seller and all other documents necessary to register the Share Transfer
Forms with the Mauritian Registrar General);  

  (ii)           with
respect to the Option Shares: (A) notices of exercise of options, in a
form reasonably acceptable to Share Purchaser, in which each Option Holder (i) exercises
all of the vested options in Class B Shares of the Company held by him or
her upon Closing, (ii) authorizes the Share Purchaser to pay the aggregate
exercise price payable in respect of the exercise of Options to the Company
from the portion of the Initial Purchase Price payable to the Option Holder
therefor, (iii) authorizes the sale of the Option Shares to the Share
Purchaser and instructs the Seller Representative to carry out all necessary
actions to effect such sale and purchase, and (iv) authorizes the Share
Purchaser to pay the net consideration from the sale of Option Shares to  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

10  

the Option Holders (having
first deducted from the sale proceeds (1) the aggregate exercise price
payable in respect of the exercise of the Options, plus (2) sufficient
funds to satisfy any income tax liability and or any other tax or social
security withholding required where appropriate and (3) the pro rata share
of contributions to the Escrow Amount and the pro rata share of transaction
fees and expenses associated with the exercise of the option and the sale of
the Option Shares as set forth on  Schedule B ); and (B) a Share
Transfer Form, executed by each Option Holder (all such documents,
collectively, the   Option Share Transfer Documents    

(iii)          a release in the form of  Exhibit B 
executed by each Seller (collectively, the   Seller Releases    

(iv)          an employment agreement, substantially
in the respective forms agreed between the parties, as applicable, executed by
Agoda Thailand and [***] (collectively, the   Employment Agreements    

(v)           resignations effective as of the
Closing Date of each director and officer of each Acquired Company as the
Purchasers may have requested in writing prior to the Closing Date, with
exception of the persons set forth on  Schedule E ;  

(vi)          a certificate in the form of Exhibit C
of the secretary or assistant secretary (or equivalent officer, as applicable)
of each Acquired Company dated as of the Closing Date and attaching with
respect to each Acquired Company (A) the Acquired Company s charter and
all amendments thereto, certified by the Secretary of State (or equivalent) of
the jurisdiction of the Acquired Company s organization not more than five
business days prior to the Closing Date, (B) the Acquired Company s bylaws
(or equivalent) and all amendments thereto and (C) a certificate of good
standing (or equivalent) of the Acquired Company certified by the Secretary of
State (or equivalent) of the jurisdiction of the Acquired Company s
organization, where applicable, and issued not more than five business days
prior to the Closing Date; (D) all resolutions of the board of directors
or other authorizing body (or a duly authorized committee thereof) of the
Acquired Companies relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement; and (E) incumbency and signatures of the officers of
the Company executing any agreement contemplated by this Agreement;  

(vii)         a receipt for the Initial Purchase
Price, less the Escrow Amount, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the
Purchasers;  

(viii)        an escrow agreement in the form of  Exhibit D 
(the   Escrow Agreement  ) executed by Sellers  Representative and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the   Escrow Agent    

(xix)         an option cancellation agreement,
substantially in the form of  Exhibit E , executed by each holder of
unvested options over shares in the Company, as set forth in  Schedule B ,
and the Company (collectively, the   Option Cancellation Agreements    

(x)            a restricted stock unit agreement
substantially in the form of Exhibit F executed by [***] (collectively,
the   Restricted Stock Unit Agreements    

(xi)           a performance share unit agreement
substantially in the form of  Exhibit G  executed by each of the
holders of unvested options over shares in the Company listed on  Schedule B 
(collectively, the   Performance Share Unit Agreements    

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

11  

(xii)          an intellectual property assignment
and release agreement in the form of  Exhibit H  (collectively, the   Employee
IP Assignment and Release Agreements  ) executed by each employee of an
Acquired Company listed on  Schedule F  and the respective Acquired
Company;  

(xiii)         documents assigning and transferring
all rights, title and interest in the Convertible Debt in the form of  Exhibit I 
(the   Convertible Debt Assignment and Transfer Documents  ) executed by
[***] and all additional documentation related thereto reasonably requested by
the Share Purchaser to effect the assignment and transfer of such Convertible
Debt to, and to allow for the immediate conversion of such Convertible Debt
into shares of the Company by, Share Purchaser. 
The Sellers hereby waive any preemption or other rights with respect to
shares in the Company issued on any such conversion;  

(xiv)        documents assigning and transferring all
rights, title and interest in the Parity Option in the form of  Exhibit J 
(the   Parity Option Assignment and Transfer Documents  ) executed by
[***] and all additional documentation related thereto reasonably requested by
the Share Purchaser to effect the assignment and transfer of such Parity Option
to, and to allow for the immediate exercise of such Parity Option by, Share
Purchaser.  The Sellers hereby waive any
preemption or other rights with respect to the shares in the Company to be
transferred pursuant to the Parity Option;  

(xv)         a termination agreement, in a form
reasonably acceptable to the Share Purchaser, executed by all Sellers
terminating all prior shareholders agreements relating to the Company
(including such shareholders agreements dated August 15, 2005, April 3,
2005, and March 11, 2005 and, subject to assignment of all rights, title
and interest in, and exercise of, the Parity Option pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement and the Parity Option Agreement);  

(xvi)        (A) evidence, in a form reasonably
satisfactory to the Share Purchaser, that Agoda Singapore has received (1) [***]
from [***] in consideration for the sale by Agoda Singapore to [***] of the
outstanding debt owed by AAP to Agoda Singapore and (2) realizable assets
with a value of approximately [***] (the   AAP Assets  ) from AAP; and  

(xvii)       evidence, in a form reasonably
satisfactory to the Purchasers, that none of the Acquired Companies currently
accepts bookings or permits bookings to be entered in its website with respect
to the provision of products or services to, from or within [***].  

(b)           At
the Closing, the Purchasers will deliver or cause to be delivered to the
Sellers:  

(i)            the Initial Purchase Price (as
adjusted pursuant to Section 2.4), less the Escrow Amount, to each Seller
and Option Holder as set forth on  Schedule A  and  Schedule B ,
respectively, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts
notified in writing to the Purchasers prior to the Closing Date;  

(ii)           each of the Equity Transfer Documents
executed by the Purchasers, as applicable;  

(iii)          a counterpart to each of the Option
Share Transfer Documents executed by the Share Purchaser;  

(iv)          a counterpart to the Escrow Agreement
executed by the Purchasers;  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

12  

(v)           a counterpart to each of the
Restricted Stock Unit Agreements executed by Priceline US;  

(vi)          a counterpart to each of the
Performance Share Unit Agreement executed by Priceline US;  

(vii)         a counterpart to each of the
Convertible Debt Assignment and Transfer Documents executed by the Share
Purchaser; and  

(viii)        a counterpart to each of the Parity
Option Assignment and Transfer Documents executed by the Share Purchaser.  

(c)           At the Closing, the Purchasers will deliver or cause to be
delivered the sum of [***] (the   Escrow Amount  ) to the Escrow Agent by
wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account specified by the
Escrow Agent.  

(d)           The Closing will not be deemed to have occurred until each
party has delivered to the other applicable party or parties (or such receiving
party or parties have waived such delivery of) all of the Closing documents,
agreements, payments, and other deliveries required to be delivered or made by
each party on or prior to the Closing Date, as set forth in this Section 2.6.  

Section 2.7              Escrow Agent and Escrow
Agreement .  Concurrently with the
execution and delivery of the Escrow Agreement, and pursuant to applicable
provisions thereof, the Escrow Agent will establish an escrow account to hold
the Escrow Amount (the   Escrow Fund  ) in trust pursuant to the Escrow
Agreement free of any lien or other claim of any creditor of any of the parties
which amount, plus any Interest accrued thereon, will be payable to the Sellers
less (i) any amounts owed to the Purchasers with respect to any
adjustments pursuant to Section 2.4 and (ii) any pending or paid
indemnification claims asserted pursuant to Article 7, in accordance with
the terms of this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement.  The Escrow Fund will be deemed to have been
withheld from each Seller and vested Option Holder in proportion to the amount
of the Initial Purchase Price received by such Seller or vested Option Holder
as set forth on  Schedule A  and  Schedule B .  The execution of this Agreement by the
Sellers will constitute approval of the Escrow Fund, the Escrow Agreement, and
the appointment of the Seller Representative.  

Section 2.8              Purchase Price Allocation .  The Purchase Price will be allocated in
accordance with Schedules A, B and C. 
After the Closing, the parties will make consistent use of the
allocation specified in Schedules A, B and C for all Tax purposes and in all
filings, declarations and reports with the IRS (and other Tax authorities) in
respect thereof. Any adjustment to the Purchase Price will be allocated pro
rata to the items listed in Schedules A, B and C based on the relative fair market
values of the assets on the Closing Date.  

ARTICLE 3 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE SELLERS   

The Sellers jointly and
severally represent and warrant to the Purchasers that as of the Closing Date
the statements set forth in this Article 3 are true and correct, except,
subject to Section 8.8, as set forth on the disclosure schedule delivered
by the Sellers to the Purchasers concurrently with the execution and delivery
of this Agreement and dated as of the Closing Date (the   Seller Disclosure
Schedule  ):  

Section 3.1                Organization and Good Standing .  Each Acquired Company is a corporation or
limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing
(where applicable) under  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

13  

the Laws of the jurisdiction of
its incorporation and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own,
lease and operate its properties and assets and to conduct its business as
presently conducted.  Each Acquired
Company is duly qualified or licensed to do business and, where applicable as a
legal concept, is in good standing as a foreign corporation in each
jurisdiction in which the character of the properties it owns, operates or
leases or the nature of its activities makes such qualification or license
necessary except where such failure to be so qualified or licensed or in good
standing has not had or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect.  Section 3.1(a) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of each
Acquired Company s jurisdiction of formation and the other jurisdictions in
which it is authorized to do business, and an accurate and complete list of the
current directors and officers of each Acquired Company.  The Sellers have delivered to the Purchasers
accurate and complete copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws or
other comparable charter or organizational documents of each Acquired Company,
as currently in effect, and no Acquired Company is in default under or in
violation of any provision thereof.  [***] are the sole members of AGIP, and AGIP
was formed on October 5, 2007 for the sole purpose of acquiring the IP
Assets.  AGIP has not conducted any
business, incurred any liability or entered into any contract since its
formation other than to the extent provided for or contemplated in this
Agreement.  

Section 3.2                Authority and Enforceability .  Each Seller has all requisite power,
authority and capacity to execute and deliver this Agreement and each of the
Ancillary Agreements to which such Seller is a party and to perform such Seller s
obligations under this Agreement and each such Ancillary Agreement.  The execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements have been duly authorized by all
necessary action on the part of the Sellers. 
This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Seller and
constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Seller, enforceable
against each Seller in accordance with its terms subject to the effects of
bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and
other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors  rights generally and
general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or
at law).  Upon the execution and delivery
by the Sellers of the Ancillary Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements will constitute
the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Sellers party thereto,
enforceable against such Sellers in accordance with their terms subject to the
effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization,
moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors  rights
generally and general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding
in equity or at law). 

Section 3.3                No Conflict .  Except as set forth on Section 3.3 of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule, neither the execution and delivery of this
Agreement, nor the consummation or performance of the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement, will (a) directly or indirectly (with or without
notice, lapse of time or both) conflict with, result in a breach or violation
of, constitute a default (or give rise to any right of termination,
cancellation, acceleration, suspension or modification of any obligation or
loss of any benefit) under, result in any payment becoming due under, or result
in the imposition of any Encumbrances on any of the Equity Interests or any of
the properties or assets of any Acquired Company under (i) the certificate
of incorporation, bylaws or other comparable charter or organizational
documents of any Acquired Company, or any resolution adopted by the Sellers or
the board of directors of any Acquired Company, (ii) any Governmental
Authorization or Contract to which any Acquired Company or any Seller is a
party or by which any Acquired Company or any Seller is bound or to which any
of their respective properties or assets is subject or (iii) any Law or
Judgment applicable to any Acquired Company or any Seller or any of their
respective properties or assets;
or (b) require any Acquired Company or any Seller to obtain any consent,
waiver, approval, ratification, permit, license, Governmental Authorization or
other authorization of, give any notice to, or make any filing or registration
with, any Governmental Authority or other Person, except, in the case of the
foregoing clauses (ii) and (iii), as would not have or be reasonably
likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. 

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

14  

Section 3.4                Capitalization and Ownership . 

(a)           The authorized share capital of the Company consists
solely of (i) 846 Class A shares, par value $1.00 (  Class A
Shares  ), of which 846 shares are issued and outstanding and no shares are
held in treasury; and (ii) 1,154 Class B shares, par value $1.00 (  Class B
Shares  ), of which 355 shares are issued and outstanding and 799 shares are
held in treasury.  The Shares represent
all of the issued and outstanding Class A Shares and Class B
Shares.  The Membership Interests represent
all of the issued and outstanding membership interests in AGIP.  As of the Closing Date, the Sellers are the
sole record holders and beneficial owners of all of the Equity Interests, free
and clear of all Encumbrances, in the respective amounts set forth in  Schedule
A  and  Schedule B .  

(b)           Section 3.4(b) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule
sets forth for each Subsidiary (i) its name and jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization, (ii) its authorized capital stock (or
equivalent) and (iii) the number of issued and outstanding (or equivalent)
shares of capital stock, the record and beneficial owners thereof and the
number of shares held in treasury (or equivalent).  No Acquired Company owns, controls or has any
rights to acquire, directly or indirectly, any capital stock or other equity
interests or debt instruments of
any Person, except for the Subsidiaries. 
Except as set forth in Section 3.4(b) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule, all of the outstanding equity securities and other securities of each
Subsidiary are owned of record and beneficially by one or more of the Acquired
Companies, free and clear of all Encumbrances, in the respective amounts set
forth in Section 3.4(b) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule.  

(c)           Except as set forth in this Section 3.4 or in Section 3.4(c) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule, (i) there are no equity securities of any
class of any Acquired Company, or any security exchangeable into or exercisable
for such equity securities, issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding and (ii) there
are no options, warrants, equity securities, calls, rights or other Contracts
to which any Acquired Company is a party or by which any Acquired Company is
bound obligating any Acquired Company to issue, exchange, transfer, deliver or
sell, or cause to be issued, exchanged, transferred, delivered or sold,
additional shares of capital stock or other equity interests of any Acquired
Company or any security or rights convertible into or exchangeable or
exercisable for any such shares or other equity interests, or obligating any
Acquired Company to grant, extend, accelerate the vesting of, otherwise modify
or amend or enter into any such option, warrant, equity security, call, right,
or Contract.  Except as set forth in Section 3.4(c) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule, there are no Contracts to which any Acquired
Company or any Seller or any Affiliate of any Acquired Company or any Seller is
a party, or by which any Acquired Company or any Seller is bound, with respect
to the voting (including voting trusts or proxies), registration under the
Securities Act of 1933 (the   Securities Act  ) or any foreign securities
Law, or the sale or transfer (including Contracts imposing transfer
restrictions), of any shares of capital stock or other equity interests of any
Acquired Company.  Except as set forth in
Section 3.4(c) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule, no holder of
Indebtedness of any Acquired Company has any right to convert or exchange such
Indebtedness for any equity securities or other securities of any Acquired
Company, and no holder of Indebtedness of any Acquired Company has any rights
to vote for the election of directors of any Acquired Company or to vote on any
other matter.  

(d)           All of the Equity Interests and the issued and outstanding
(or equivalent) equity securities of each Subsidiary are duly authorized,
validly issued, fully paid (in the case of issued and outstanding Shares),
nonassessable, not subject to or issued in violation of any purchase option,
right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar
right and have been issued in compliance with all applicable Laws.  No legend or other reference to any purported
Encumbrance appears on any certificate representing the Equity Interests or any
equity securities of any Subsidiary.  

(e)           There are no obligations, contingent or otherwise, of any
Acquired Company to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of
capital stock, or other equity interests, of any   

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

15  

Acquired Company.  No Acquired Company is subject to any obligation
or requirement to provide funds to or make any investment (in the form of a
loan, capital contribution or otherwise) in any subsidiary or any other Person.  

Section 3.5                Financial Statements . 

(a)           Attached as Section 3.5 of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule are the following financial statements (collectively, the   Financial
Statements  ):  

(i)            an audited consolidated balance
sheet of the Agoda Companies as of December 31, 2006 (the   Balance
Sheet  ) and the related audited consolidated and consolidating statements
of income, changes in shareholders  equity and cash flow for the fiscal year
then ended, including in each case any notes thereto, together with the report
thereon of Morison (Mauritius), independent certified public accountants; and  

(ii)           an unaudited consolidated balance
sheet of the Agoda Companies as of September 30, 2007 (the   Interim
Balance Sheet  ) and the related unaudited consolidated statement of income
and changes in shareholders  equity for the nine months then ended.  

(b)           Except as set forth in Section 3.5(b) of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule, the Financial Statements (including the notes
thereto) are correct and complete in all material respects, are consistent with
the books and records of the Agoda Companies and have been prepared in
accordance with GAAP, consistently applied throughout the periods involved
(except that the interim financial statements are subject to normal recurring
year-end adjustments, the effect of which will not, individually or in the
aggregate, be material, and the absence of notes that, if presented, would not
differ materially from the notes to the Balance Sheet).  The Financial Statements fairly present the
financial condition and the results of operations, changes in shareholders 
equity and cash flow of the Agoda Companies as of the respective dates and for
the periods indicated therein, all in accordance with GAAP.  No financial statements of any Person other
than the Agoda Companies are required by GAAP to be included in the financial
statements of the Company.  

Section 3.6                Books and Records .  The books of account, minute books, stock
record books and other records of the Acquired Companies, all of which have
been made available to the Purchaser, are accurate and complete in all material respects.  At the time of the Closing, all of such books
and records will be in the possession of the respective Acquired Company. 

Section 3.7                Accounts Receivable; Bank
Accounts . 

(a)           Subject to any reserves set forth in the Financial
Statements, the accounts receivable shown on the Financial Statements represent
valid, bona fide claims against debtors for sales and other charges. The amount
carried for doubtful accounts and allowances disclosed in the Financial
Statements was calculated in accordance with GAAP and in a manner consistent
with prior periods.  To the Sellers 
Knowledge, there is no contest, claim, defense or right of setoff, other than
returns in the ordinary course of business, relating to the amount or validity
of such accounts receivable.  

(b)           Section 3.7(b) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule
sets forth an accurate and complete list of the names and addresses of all
banks and financial institutions in which any Acquired Company has an account,
deposit, safe-deposit box, line of credit or other loan facility or
relationship, or lock box or other arrangement for the collection of accounts
receivable, with the names of all Persons authorized to draw or borrow thereon
or to obtain access thereto.  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

16  

Section 3.8                No Undisclosed Liabilities .  No Acquired Company has any Liability that is
required to be disclosed on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP
that is not reflected on the Interim Balance Sheet except for Liabilities
incurred in the ordinary course of business after the date of the Interim
Balance Sheet and which are similar in nature and amount to the Liabilities
which arose during the comparable period of time in the immediately preceding
fiscal period.  The Estimated Closing
Balance Sheet, when delivered under Section 2.3, has been prepared in
accordance with GAAP, in a manner consistent with the methods and practices
used to prepare the Interim Balance Sheet, and presents the [***] and the other information set forth
therein, in compliance with the applicable provisions of Section 2.3. 

Section 3.9                Absence of Certain Changes and
Events .  Except as set forth in Section 3.9
of the Seller Disclosure Schedule, since the date of the Balance Sheet, each
Acquired Company has conducted its business only in the ordinary course of
business and there has not been any Material Adverse Effect.  Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, except as set forth in Section 3.9 of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule, since the date of the Balance Sheet, there has not been with respect
to any Acquired Company any: 

(a)           amendment to its articles of
incorporation or bylaws or other comparable charter or organizational
documents;  

(b)           change in its authorized (or
equivalent) or issued capital stock, or issuance, sale, grant, repurchase,
redemption, pledge or other disposition of or Encumbrance on any shares of its
capital stock or other voting securities or any securities convertible,
exchangeable or redeemable for, or any options, warrants or other rights to
acquire, any such securities;  

(c)           split, combination or
reclassification of any of its capital stock;  

(d)           declaration, setting aside or payment
of any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other
property) in respect of its capital stock (other than dividends and
distributions by a Subsidiary to the Company);  

(e)           (i) incurrence of any
Indebtedness, (ii) issuance, sale or amendment of any of its debt
securities or warrants or other rights to acquire any of its debt securities,
guarantee of any debt securities of another Person, entry into any  keep well 
or other Contract to maintain any financial statement condition of another
Person or entry into any arrangement having the economic effect of any of the
foregoing, (iii) loans, advances (other
than routine advances to its employees in the ordinary course of business)
or capital contributions to, or investment in, any other Person, other than the
Company or any Subsidiary and other than in accordance with the Company s cash
investment policy as described in Section 3.9(e) of the Seller
Disclosure Schedule or (iv)  entry into any hedging Contract or other
financial agreement or arrangement designed to protect any Acquired Company
against fluctuations in commodities prices or exchange rates;  

(f)            sale, lease, license, pledge or
other disposition of or Encumbrance on any of its properties or assets, except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;  

(g)           acquisition (i) by merger or
consolidation with, or by purchase of all or a substantial portion of the
assets or any stock of, or by any other manner, any business or Person or (ii) any
assets that are material to any
Acquired Company individually or in the aggregate, except purchases of
inventory and raw materials in the ordinary course of business;  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

17  

(h)           damage to, or destruction or loss of,
any of its assets or properties with an aggregate value to any Acquired Company
in excess of [***], whether or not
covered by insurance;  

(i)            entry into, modification,
acceleration, cancellation or termination of, or receipt of notice of
termination of, any Contract (or series of related Contracts) which involves a
total remaining commitment by or to any Acquired Company of at least [***] or otherwise outside the ordinary course
of business;  

(j)            (i) except as required by Law,
adoption, entry into, termination or amendment of any (A) collective
bargaining agreement, (B) Company Plan applicable to (1) any of its
directors, officers or [***] highest paid
employees (collectively, the   Key Employees  ) or (2) all or
substantially all of its other employees generally, (C) employment,
severance or similar Contract applicable to (1) any Key Employee or (2) any
other employee or consultant that represents an annual expenditure by the
Acquired Companies equal to or greater than [***]
per applicable individual, (ii) increase (A) in the
compensation or fringe benefits of, or payment of any bonus to any Key Employee
or (B) greater than [***] (based on
total compensation for each applicable individual) in the compensation or
fringe benefits of, or payment of any bonus to, any other employee or
consultant or other independent contractor, (iii) amendment or
acceleration of the payment, right to payment or vesting of any compensation or
benefits, (iv) payment of any benefit not provided for as of the date of
this Agreement under any Company Plan, (v) grant of any awards under any
bonus, incentive, performance or other compensation plan or arrangement or
benefit plan, including the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights,
stock based or stock related awards, performance units or restricted stock, or
the removal of existing restrictions in any Company Plans or Contracts or
awards made thereunder or (vi) any action other than in the ordinary
course of business to fund or in any other way secure the payment of
compensation or benefits under any Company Plan;  

(k)           cancellation, compromise, release or
waiver of any claims or rights (or series of related claims or rights) with a
value exceeding [***] or otherwise
outside the ordinary course of business;  

(l)            settlement or compromise in
connection with any Proceeding;  

(m)          capital expenditure or other
expenditure with respect to property, plant or equipment in excess of [***] in the aggregate for the Acquired
Companies taken as a whole;  

(n)           change in accounting principles,
methods or practices or investment practices, including any changes as were
necessary to conform with GAAP;  

(o)           change in payment or processing
practices or policies regarding intercompany transactions;  

(p)           other than in the ordinary course of
business consistent with past practice, acceleration or delay in the payment of
accounts payable or other Liabilities or in the collection of notes or accounts
receivable;  

(q)           making or rescission of any Tax
election, settlement or compromise of any Tax Liability or amendment of any Tax
Return; or  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

18  

(r)            authorization of or Contract by any
Acquired Company to take any of the actions described in this Section 3.9.  

Section 3.10              Assets .  Each Acquired Company has good and marketable
title to, or in the case of leased assets, valid leasehold interests in, all of
its assets, tangible or intangible, free and clear of any Encumbrances other
than Permitted Encumbrances.  Each
Acquired Company owns or leases all tangible personal property used in or
necessary to conduct its business as conducted by the Acquired Companies.  Each such material item of tangible personal
property is in all material respects
in good operating condition and repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted.  Agoda Singapore has received good and
marketable title to the AAP Assets free and clear of any Encumbrances other
than Permitted Encumbrances. 

Section 3.11              Leased Real Property . 

(a)           No Acquired Company owns any real property, nor has any
Acquired Company ever owned any real property.  

(b)           Section 3.11(b) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule
sets forth an accurate and complete description of all real property (including
the date end term of the lease, and the aggregate annual rent payable
thereunder) in which any Acquired Company has a leasehold or subleasehold
estate or other right to use or occupy (collectively, the   Leased Real
Property  ).  The Sellers have
delivered to the Purchasers accurate and complete copies of all leases and
other Contracts granting a right in or relating to the Leased Real Property and all Contracts and other documents
evidencing, creating or constituting Encumbrances upon or rights in the Leased
Real Property.  

(c)           Each Acquired Company holds valid leasehold interests in
its Leased Real Property, free and clear of any Encumbrances other than
Permitted Encumbrances.  

(d)           To the Knowledge of the Sellers, use of the Leased Real
Property for the various purposes for which it is presently being used is
permitted as of right under applicable zoning Laws and is not subject to  permitted
non-conforming  use or structure classifications (or the equivalent under local
law).  

(e)           No Person other than an Acquired Company is in possession
of any portion of the Leased Real Property. 
No Acquired Company has granted to any Person the right to use or occupy
any portion of any parcel of Leased Real Property, and no Acquired Company has
received notice, and the Sellers have no Knowledge, of any claim of any Person
to the contrary.  

Section 3.12              Intellectual Property . 

(a)           Each Acquired Company owns or otherwise possesses valid
and legally enforceable rights to use all Intellectual Property owned, created,
acquired, licensed or used by the respective Acquired Companies as of the
Closing Date, except for the specific service mark applications listed on
Schedule 3.12(a)(i) (but not including any common law or equivalent rights
in the relevant jurisdictions) which applications are owned by AGIP (the   Company
Intellectual Property  ).  The Company
Intellectual Property constitutes all of the Intellectual Property used in or
necessary to conduct the businesses of the Acquired Companies as conducted by
the Acquired Companies.  One or more of
the Acquired Companies are the sole owners of, and have valid title to, all of
the Company Intellectual Property, other than the Third Party Intellectual
Property listed in the Seller Disclosure Schedule pursuant to Section 3.12(c)
(the   Owned Intellectual Property  ). 
Section 3.12(a)(ii) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule sets
forth a complete and accurate list of all material Owned Intellectual Property.
 Immediately after the Closing, one   

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

19  

or more of the Acquired
Companies will be the sole owners of, and will have valid title to, the Owned
Intellectual Property, and will have the full right to use, license and
transfer the Company Intellectual Property in the same manner and on the same
terms and conditions that the Acquired Companies had immediately prior to the
Closing, except to the extent the Purchasers sell, assign or transfer such
Owned Intellectual Property.  

(b)           With respect to the Owned Intellectual Property, Section 3.12(b) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule sets forth a complete and accurate list of the
following for each of the Acquired Companies (together): (i) all patents
and patent applications, registered trademarks and service marks, including
applications for the same, Internet domain names, and copyright registrations
and applications, indicating for each, the applicable jurisdiction,
registration number (or application number) and date issued (or date filed),
and (ii) each computer software item created by or for any Seller or
Acquired Company and used in the Business. 
Section 3.12(b) also identifies all Contracts under which any
Acquired Company or A.T. has licensed or otherwise granted rights in any of the
Owned Intellectual Property to any Person (except for licenses implied by the
sale of a product or service to customers in the ordinary course of business or
as permitted by Sellers under the standard terms of use policy as may be posted
to the websites of the Agoda Companies and attached as Exhibit K in the
ordinary course of business).  

(c)           Section 3.12(c) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth a complete and accurate list of the Intellectual Property
that any third party (excluding A.T.) has licensed or sublicensed to any
Acquired Company or otherwise authorized any Acquired Company to use, to the extent
such Intellectual Property is currently used in the Business (the   Third
Party Intellectual Property  ), including a list of the related Contracts
(but excluding software licensed to an Acquired Company under generally
available retail shrinkwrap or clickwrap licenses and used in the Acquired
Company s business, but not incorporated into software, products or services
licensed, sold, distributed or otherwise made available or anticipated to be
licensed, sold, distributed or otherwise made available by any Acquired Company
to customers or otherwise resold or distributed by any Acquired Company).  No Acquired Company has granted any
sublicense or similar right to any third party with respect to any such Third
Party Intellectual Property.  

(d)           The Owned Intellectual Property is free of all
Encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances and is not subject to any
Proceeding, Judgment or Contract that limits or restricts its use anywhere in
the world.  To the Sellers  Knowledge, no
Person has any rights in the Owned Intellectual Property that could cause
termination of any Acquired Company s rights in the Owned Intellectual
Property.  

(e)           All patents and registered and unregistered trademarks,
service marks and copyrights included in the Company Intellectual Property are
valid and subsisting under applicable Law for those respective categories of
Intellectual Property, except as set forth in Schedule 3.12(e) of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule.  The Seller
Representative has delivered to the Purchasers accurate and complete copies of
all patents, registrations and applications, each as amended to date, included
in the Owned Intellectual Property and all other written documentation
evidencing ownership and prosecution of each such item.  

(f)            No Acquired Company has agreed to indemnify, defend or
otherwise hold harmless any other Person with respect to Losses resulting or
arising from the Company Intellectual Property, except under those Contracts
summarized or described in Section 3.12(c) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule.  

(g)           To the Sellers  Knowledge, no Person has infringed or
misappropriated any of the Company Intellectual Property, other than as set
forth in Section 3.12(g) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule.  Immediately after the Closing, one or more of
the Acquired Companies will have sole rights to  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for
redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the
Commission.  

20  

bring
actions for infringement or misappropriation of the Owned Intellectual
Property.  No Acquired Company (or A.T.)
has commenced or threatened any Proceeding, or asserted any allegation or
claim, against any Person for infringement or misappropriation of the Company
Intellectual Property or breach of any Contract involving the Company
Intellectual Property, except set forth in Section 3.12(d) of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule.  

(h)           Except as set forth in Section 3.12(h) of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule, to the Sellers  Knowledge, neither the conduct of
the Business nor the Acquired Companies  (or A.T. s) creation, use, license or
other transfer of the Company Intellectual Property infringe or misappropriate
any other Person s Intellectual Property rights.  No Acquired Company (or A.T.) has received
notice of any pending or threatened Proceeding or any allegation or claim in
which any Person alleges that an Acquired Company (or A.T.), its business or
the Company Intellectual Property has violated any Person s Intellectual
Property rights.  There are no pending
disputes between any Acquired Company (or A.T.) and any other Person relating
to the Company Intellectual Property.  

(i)            Each Acquired Company and A.T. (while it owned the IP
Assets) has taken all commercially reasonable steps necessary to protect and
preserve each material item of Company Intellectual Property, including any
trade secrets included in the Company Intellectual Property.  Each Acquired Company has taken all
commercially reasonable steps necessary to comply with any duties of the
Acquired Company to protect the confidentiality of information provided to the
Acquired Company by any other Person. 
Except as set forth in Section 3.12(i) of the Seller
Disclosure Schedule, each Acquired Company and A.T. (with respect to the IP
Assets) has obtained from each current and former employee, consultant and
other independent contractor with
access to Company Intellectual Property an assignment of any and all
rights in and to all Owned Intellectual Property, except to the extent that all
such rights inure to the ownership of the Acquired Company (or A.T.) upon
creation.  

(j)            Each Acquired Company takes commercially reasonable steps
at all times to assure that all software and data residing on its computer
networks or licensed or otherwise distributed to customers is free of viruses
and other disruptive technological means. 
The Owned Intellectual Property does not and, to the Sellers  Knowledge,
the Third Party Intellectual Property does not, contain any computer code or
other mechanism of any kind designed to disrupt, disable or harm in any manner
the operation of any software or hardware or other business processes or to
misuse, gain unauthorized access to or misappropriate any business or personal
information, including worms, bombs, backdoors, clocks, timers, or other
disabling device code, or designs or routines that cause software or
information to be erased, inoperable, or otherwise incapable of being used,
either automatically or with passage of time or upon command.  

(k)           Except as set forth in Schedule 3.12(k), the computer
software source and object code underlying or utilized in connection with the
Owned Intellectual Property does not incorporate, depend upon or require for
its functionality any source or object code or other Intellectual Property that
is not wholly-owned by the Acquired Company purporting to own such Intellectual
Property.  None of the Owned Intellectual
Property and, to the Sellers  Knowledge, none of the Third Party Intellectual
Property, was developed using any Governmental Authority or university funding
or facilities, nor was it obtained from a Governmental Authority or
university.  No Acquired Company is a
member of, and no Acquired Company is obligated to license or disclose any
Intellectual Property to, any official or de facto standards setting or similar
organization or to any organization s members. 
None of the Owned Intellectual Property, and, to the Sellers  Knowledge,
none of the Third Party Intellectual Property, includes any software of the
type commonly referred to as  freeware  or  shareware,  or that is subject to
any form of  GNU,   Mozilla,  or other public license.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

21  

Section 3.13               Contracts .  

(a)           Section 3.13(a) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of each Contract (or group of
related Contracts) to which any Acquired Company is a party, by which any
Acquired Company is bound or pursuant to which any Acquired Company is an
obligor or a beneficiary, which:  

(i)            involves performance of services, the performance of
which extends over a period of more than six months or that otherwise involves
an amount or value in excess of [***];  

(ii)           is for capital expenditures in excess of [***];  

(iii)          is a mortgage, indenture, guarantee, loan or credit
agreement, security agreement or other Contract relating to Indebtedness, other
than accounts receivables and payables in the ordinary course of business;  

(iv)          is a lease or sublease of any real or personal property, or
that otherwise affects the ownership of, leasing of, title to, or use of, any
real or personal property (except personal property leases and conditional
sales agreements having a value per item or aggregate payments of less than [***] and a term of less than one year);  

(v)           is a license or other Contract under which any Acquired
Company has licensed or otherwise granted rights in any Company Intellectual
Property to any Person (except for the IP License) or any Person has licensed
or sublicensed to any Acquired Company, or otherwise authorized any Acquired
Company to use, any Third Party Intellectual Property (except for software
licensed to an Acquired Company under generally available retail shrinkwrap or
clickwrap licenses and used in the Acquired Company s business, but not
incorporated into software, products or services licensed or sold, or
reasonably anticipated to be licensed or sold, by any Acquired Company to
customers or otherwise resold or distributed by any Acquired Company);  

(vi)          is for the employment of, or receipt of any services from,
any director or officer of an Acquired Company or any other Person on a
full-time, part-time, consulting or other basis providing annual compensation
by the Acquired Companies in excess of [***];  

(vii)         provides for severance, termination or similar pay to any of
the Acquired Companies  current or former directors, officers, employees or
consultants or other independent contractors;  

(viii)        provides for a loan or advance of any amount to any director
or officer of any Acquired Company,
other than advances for travel and other appropriate business expenses in the
ordinary course of business;  

(ix)           licenses any Person to manufacture or reproduce any of the
Acquired Companies  products, services or technology, or any Contract in excess
of [***] to sell or distribute any of the
Acquired Companies  products, services or technology;  

(x)            is an affiliate marketing agreement or other Contract to
drive traffic to Acquired Companies  products, services or technology
generating more than [***] in commissions
or not made during the ordinary course of business on terms substantially
similar to the Acquired Companies  affiliate marketing agreement as set forth
in Exhibit   

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

22  

(xi)           is a joint venture, partnership or other Contract
involving any joint conduct or sharing of any business, venture or enterprise,
or a sharing of profits or losses or pursuant to which any Acquired Company has
any ownership interest in any other Person or business enterprise other than
the Subsidiaries;  

(xii)          is an agency or distribution agreement or arrangement;  

(xiii)         contains any covenant limiting the right of any Acquired
Company to engage in any line of business or to compete (geographically or
otherwise) with any Person, granting any exclusive rights to make, sell or
distribute any Acquired Company s products or services, granting any  most
favored nations  or similar rights or otherwise prohibiting or limiting the
right of any Acquired Company to make, sell or distribute any products or
services;  

(xiv)        involves payments in excess of [***] (including rebates and commissions) based, in whole or in
part, on profits, revenues, sales, fee income or other financial performance
measures of any Acquired Company, including rebate or commission agreements
with hotels and hotel inventory resellers that are reimbursed based on Acquired
Company sales;  

(xv)         is a power of attorney granted by or on behalf of any
Acquired Company;  

(xvi)        is a written warranty, guaranty or other similar undertaking
with respect to contractual performance extended by an Acquired Company other
than in the ordinary course of business;  

(xvii)       provides insurance with respect to the business, properties,
assets or operations of any Acquired Company;  

(xviii)      is a settlement agreement with respect to any pending or
threatened Proceeding entered into within three years prior to the date of this
Agreement, other than (A) releases immaterial in nature or amount entered
into with former employees or independent contractors of any Acquired Company
in the ordinary course of business in connection with routine cessation of such
employee s or independent contractor s employment with any Acquired Company or (B) settlement
agreements for cash only (which has been paid) and does not exceed [***] as to such settlement;  

(xix)         was entered into other than in the ordinary course of
business and that involves an amount or value in excess of [***] or contains or provides for an express
undertaking by an Acquired Company to be responsible for consequential damages;
or  

(xx)          is otherwise material to the business, properties or assets
of the Acquired Companies taken as a whole or under which the consequences of a
default or termination could result in a Material Adverse Effect.  

(b)           The Sellers have delivered to the Purchasers an accurate
and complete copy of each of the Contracts required to be listed in Section 3.13(a) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule.  With
respect to each such Contract required to be listed:  

(i)            the Contract is legal, valid, binding, enforceable and in
full force and effect except to the extent it has previously expired in
accordance with its terms;  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

23  

(ii)           no Acquired Company nor, to the Sellers  Knowledge, any
other party to the Contract is in material breach or material default under the
Contract and no event has occurred or circumstance exists (including
transactions contemplated by this Agreement) that (with or without notice,
lapse of time or both) would constitute a material breach or material default
by any Acquired Company or, to the Sellers  Knowledge, by any such other party
or permit termination, cancellation, acceleration, suspension or modification
of any material obligation or loss of any material benefit under, result in any payment becoming due under,
result in the imposition of any Encumbrances on any of the Equity Interests or
any of the properties or assets of any Acquired Company under, or otherwise
give rise to any right on the part of any Person to exercise any remedy or
obtain any relief under, the Contract, nor has any Acquired Company given or
received notice or other communication alleging the same; and  

(iii)          no party has repudiated any portion of the Contract.  

(c)           Section 3.13(c) of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule sets forth details of all discounts, overriders,
rebates, reward programs and similar arrangements which are material to the
Business and offered or granted to each Acquired Company by its suppliers or by
each Acquired Company to third parties, including affiliate marketers and
customers.  

(d)           To the Sellers  Knowledge, no director, agent, employee or
consultant or other independent contractor of any Acquired Company is a party
to, or is otherwise bound by, any Contract, including any confidentiality,
noncompetition or proprietary rights agreement, with any other Person that
materially adversely affects (i) the performance of his or her duties for
the Acquired Companies, (ii) his or her ability to assign to any Acquired
Company rights to any invention, improvement, discovery or information relating
to the business of the Acquired Companies or (iii) the ability of any
Acquired Company to conduct its business as currently conducted.  

(e)           None of the Acquired Companies are, and none of the
Acquired Companies at any time within the past five years have been, parties to
any Contract relating to the provision of goods or services to (i) any
Governmental Authority, (ii) any prime contractor to any Governmental
Authority or (iii) any subcontractor with respect to any Contract described
in clause (i) or (ii).  

Section 3.14               Tax Matters .  

(a)           All Tax Returns of the Acquired Companies required to be
filed on or before the Closing Date have been timely filed in accordance with
applicable Laws, and each such Tax Return is accurate and complete in all
material respects.  Each Acquired Company
has timely paid all Taxes due with respect to the taxable periods covered by
such Tax Returns.  No claim has ever been
made by a Governmental Authority in a jurisdiction where an Acquired Company
does not file a Tax Return that it is or may be subject to taxation by that
jurisdiction. The Acquired Companies have not requested an extension of time
within which to file any Tax Return which has not since been filed.  

(b)           The Acquired Companies do not and will not have additional
Liability for Taxes with respect to any Tax Return which was required by
applicable Laws to be filed on or before the Closing Date, other than those
reflected as Liabilities in line items on the Balance Sheet.  The amounts reflected as Liabilities in line
items on the Balance Sheet for all Taxes are adequate to cover all unpaid
Liabilities for all Taxes, whether or not disputed, that have accrued with
respect to, or are applicable to, the period ended on and including the Closing
Date, regardless of whether the liability is shown on a Tax Return and
regardless whether the Tax return for that period has been filed.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

24  

(c)           All Taxes that each Acquired Company is required by Law to
withhold or collect, including sales and use Taxes and amounts required to be
withheld or collected in connection with any amount paid or owing to any
employee, independent contractor, creditor, shareholder, or other Person, have
been duly withheld or collected.  To the
extent required by applicable Law, all such amounts have been paid over to the
proper Governmental Authority or, to the extent not yet due and payable, are
held in separate bank accounts for such purpose.  

(d)           No federal, state, local or foreign audits or other
Proceedings are pending or being conducted, nor has any Acquired Company
received any (i) notice from any Governmental Authority requesting
information related to Tax matters or that any such audit or other Proceeding
is pending, threatened or contemplated or (ii) notice of deficiency or
proposed adjustment for any amount of Tax proposed, asserted or assessed by any
Governmental Authority against any Acquired Company, with respect to any Taxes
due from or with respect to any Acquired Company or any Tax Return filed by or
with respect to any Acquired Company. 
The Acquired Companies have not granted or been requested to grant any
waiver of any statutes of limitations applicable to any claim for Taxes or with
respect to any Tax assessment or deficiency.  

(e)           All Tax deficiencies that have been claimed, proposed or
asserted in writing against any Acquired Company have been fully paid or
finally settled, and no issue has been raised in writing in any examination
which, by application of similar principles, could be expected to result in the
proposal or assertion of a Tax deficiency for any other year not so examined.  

(f)            None of the Acquired Companies has engaged in a  reportable
transaction  within the meaning of Section 6707A(c)(1) of the Code.  

(g)           None of the Acquired Companies is a party to or bound by
any Tax sharing agreement, Tax indemnity obligation or similar Contract or
practice with respect to Taxes (including any advance pricing agreement,
closing agreement or other Contract relating to Taxes with any Governmental
Authority).  

(h)           None of the Acquired Companies is or has been a member of
an affiliated group within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code
(or any similar group defined under a similar provision of foreign, state or
local Law), other than a group of which the Company is the common parent, and
none of the Acquired Companies has any Liability for Taxes of any other Person
under Section 1.1502-6 of the Treasury Regulations (or any similar
provision of foreign, state or local Law), as a transferee or successor, by
Contract or otherwise.  

(i)            None of the Acquired Companies is or has been a United
States real property holding corporation (as defined in Section 897(c)(2) of
the Code) during the applicable period specified in Section 897(c)(1)(A)(ii) of
the Code.  

(j)            None of the Acquired Companies has participated in a
transaction described in section 355 of the Code for the two-year period ended
on the Closing Date.  

(k)           There are no Encumbrances upon any properties or assets of
any Acquired Company arising from any failure or alleged failure to pay any Tax
(other than Encumbrances relating to Taxes not yet due and payable and for
which adequate reserves have been recorded in line items on the Balance Sheet).  

(l)            The holder of the Convertible Debt has a tax basis in the
Convertible Debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes in an amount which is not
less than the face amount of the debt.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

25  

(m)          Immediately prior to the Closing, AGIP will be considered a
partnership for U.S. federal tax purposes, and AGIP has not made or filed any
entity classification election on Form 8832 since the date it was formed.  

(n)           The Company is considered to own substantially all of the
economic benefits and burdens associated with the IP Assets for U.S. federal
income tax purposes.  

Section 3.15               Employee Benefit Matters .  

(a)           Section 3.15(a) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of all Company Plans.  

(b)           The Seller Representative has delivered to the Purchasers
an accurate and complete copy of (i) each writing that sets forth the
terms of each Company Plan, including plan documents, plan amendments, any
related trusts, all summary plan descriptions and other summaries and
descriptions furnished to participants and beneficiaries, (ii) all
personnel, payroll and employment manuals and policies of each Acquired
Company, (iii) a written description of any Company Plan that is not
otherwise in writing, (iv) all registration statements filed with respect
to any Company Plan, (v) all insurance policies purchased by or to provide
benefits under any Company Plan, (vi) all reports submitted since December 31,
2004 by third-party administrators, actuaries, investment managers, trustees,
consultants or other independent contractors with respect to any Company Plan
and financial statements disclosing Liability for all obligations owed under
any Company Plan, and (vii) all notices required to be provided under
applicable law.  

(c)           No Company Plan is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code and no Company Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code.  None of the Company Plans are subject to
ERISA.  None of the Acquired Companies is
subject to the continuation coverage requirements of Sections 601 et seq. of
ERISA and Section 4980B of the Code, the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 and the Family Medical Leave Act 1993.  No stock options granted by an Acquired
Company are subject to Section 409A of the Code.  Each Company Plan that is intended to qualify
for tax-preferential treatment under applicable Law so qualifies and has
received, where required, approval from the applicable Governmental Authority
that it is so qualified and no event has occurred or circumstance exists that
may give rise to disqualification or loss of tax-preferential treatment.  

(d)           None of the Acquired Companies has, or within the past six
(6) years has had, any ERISA Affiliates.  

(e)           Each Company Plan is and at all times has been maintained,
funded, operated and administered, and the Acquired Companies have performed
all of their obligations under each Company Plan, in each case in accordance
with the terms of such Company Plan and in compliance in all material respects
with all applicable Laws.  All
contributions required to be made to any Company Plan by applicable Law and the
terms of such Company Plan, and all premiums due or payable with respect to
insurance policies funding any Company Plan, for any period through the Closing
Date, have been timely made or paid in full or, to the extent not required to
be made or paid on or before the Closing Date, have been fully reflected in
line items on the Interim Balance Sheet. 
All returns, reports and filings required by any Governmental Authority
or which must be furnished to any Person with respect to each Company Plan have
been filed or furnished.  

(f)            No event has occurred or circumstance exists that could
reasonably be expected to result (i) in an increase in premium costs of
any Company Plan that is insured or (ii) an increase in the cost of any
Company Plan that is self-insured.  Other
than routine claims for benefits submitted by participants or  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

26  

beneficiaries,
no claim against, or Proceeding involving, any Company Plan or any fiduciary
thereof is pending or, to the Sellers  Knowledge, is threatened, which could
reasonably be expected to result in any Liability, direct or indirect (by
indemnification or otherwise) of any Acquired Company to any Governmental
Authority or any Person, and no event has occurred or circumstance exists that
could reasonably be expected to give rise to any such Liability.  No Proceeding has been concluded that
resulted in any Liability of any Acquired Company that has not been fully
discharged.  

(g)           To the Sellers  Knowledge, and to the extent not otherwise
required by Law, each Acquired Company has the right to modify and terminate
benefits (other than pensions) with respect to both retired and active
employees.  To the Sellers  Knowledge,
each Company Plan sponsored by each Acquired Company permits assumption thereof
by the Purchasers or their subsidiaries upon the Closing without the consent of
the participants or any other Person.  

(h)           All Benefit Obligations under any Company Plan as of the
Closing Date have been appropriately reflected on the financial statements of
the Company Plan sponsor in accordance with local law, past practice and
generally accepted accounting principles in each jurisdiction.  Except as disclosed in Section 3.15(h) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule, each of the Company Plans providing retirement
benefits owns assets (including cash or insurance contracts) with a fair market
value, as of the Closing Date, equal to or greater than the greater of (i) the
Benefit Obligations under such plan or (ii) the projected benefit
obligation, as defined in the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87
using assumptions disclosed by the Sellers to the Purchasers, with respect to
all the participants covered by such plan.  

(i)            The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement (either alone or in conjunction with any other event) will not cause
accelerated vesting, payment or delivery of, or increase the amount or value of
any payment or benefit under or in connection with any Company Plan or
constitute a  deemed severance  or  deemed termination  under any Company Plan
otherwise with respect to, any director, officer, employee, or former director,
former officer or former employee of any Acquired Company.  No Acquired Company has made or has become
obligated to make, and no Acquired Company will as a result of the consummation
of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement become obligated to make,
any payments that could be nondeductible by reason of Section 280G of the
Code (without regard to subsection (b)(4) thereof) or Section 162(m) of
the Code (or any corresponding provision of foreign, state or local Law), nor
will any Acquired Company be required to  gross up  or otherwise compensate any
individual because of the imposition of any excise Tax on such a payment to the
individual.  

(j)            Neither of the Purchasers, their respective Affiliates or
any of the Acquired Companies will assume or have any obligations or Liability
whatsoever with regard to any  employee pension benefit plan  as defined in Section 3(2) of
ERISA, each  employee welfare benefit plan , as defined in Section 3(1) of
ERISA, and each agreement, plan, program, fund, policy, contract or arrangement
(whether written or unwritten) providing compensation, benefits, pension,
retirement, superannuation, profit sharing, stock bonus, stock option, stock
purchase, phantom or stock equivalent, bonus, thirteenth month, incentive,
deferred compensation, hospitalization, medical, dental, vision, vacation, life
insurance, death benefit, sick pay, disability, severance, termination
indemnity, redundancy pay, educational assistance, holiday pay, housing
assistance, moving expense reimbursement, fringe benefit or similar employee
benefits covering any employee, former employee, director or consultant of any
Person other than an Acquired Company, or the beneficiaries and dependents of
any employee or former employee, director or consultant of such Person.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

27  

Section 3.16               Employment and Labor Matters .  

(a)           Section 3.16(a) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of all employees and
independent contractors currently performing services for any Acquired Company,
including each employee on leave of absence or layoff status, along with the
position, date of hire, engagement or seniority, compensation and
benefits.  To the Sellers  Knowledge, no
Key Employee or group of employees of any Acquired Company has notified any
Acquired Company of an intention to terminate his, her or their employment with
the Acquired Companies within the 12-month period following the Closing Date.  

(b)           No Acquired Company is, or has been, a party to or bound
by any collective bargaining, works council, employee representative or other
Contract with any labor union, works council, employee committee or
representative of any similar employee group, nor is any such Contract being
negotiated by any Acquired Company.  The
Sellers have no Knowledge of any union organizing, election or other activities
made or threatened at any time within the past three years by or on behalf of
any union, works council, employee committee or other labor organization or
group of employees with respect to any employees of any Acquired Company.  There is no union, works council, employee
committee, employee representative or other labor organization, which, pursuant
to applicable Law, must be notified, consulted or with which negotiations need
to be conducted connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.  

(c)           Since July 1, 2002, no Acquired Company has
experienced any labor strike, picketing, lockout or other work stoppage or
labor dispute, nor to the Sellers  Knowledge is any such action
threatened.  To the Sellers  Knowledge,
no event has occurred or circumstance exists that may give rise to any such
action, nor does any Acquired Company contemplate a lockout of any employees.  

(d)           Each Acquired Company has complied in all material respects with all applicable
Laws (including Occupational Safety and Health Laws) and its own policies
relating to labor and employment matters, including fair employment practices,
terms and conditions of employment, contractual obligations, equal employment
opportunity, nondiscrimination, immigration, wages, hours, benefits, workers 
compensation, the payment of social security and similar Taxes, occupational
safety and layoff or severance.  

(e)           Except as set forth in Section 3.16(e) of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule, there is no Proceeding pending or, to the Sellers 
Knowledge, threatened against or affecting any Acquired Company relating to the
alleged violation by any Acquired Company (or its directors or officers) of any
Law pertaining to labor relations or employment matters.  To the Sellers  Knowledge, no Acquired
Company has committed any unfair labor practice, nor, to the Sellers 
Knowledge, has there been any charge or complaint of unfair labor practice
filed or, to the Sellers  Knowledge, threatened against any Acquired Company
before the National Labor Relations Board or any other Governmental
Authority.  There has been no complaint,
claim or charge of discrimination filed or, to the Sellers  Knowledge,
threatened, against any Acquired Company with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission or any other Governmental Authority.  

Section 3.17               Environmental Matters .  

(a)           Each Acquired Company is, and for the last five years has
been, in material compliance with all, and not subject to any material
Liability under any, applicable Environmental Laws.  No Acquired Company has received any written
report regarding any actual or alleged violation of Environmental Laws,
including any investigatory, remedial or corrective obligations relating to any

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

28  

Acquired
Company or any Leased Real Property.  To
the Knowledge of the Sellers and except as would not result in any material
Liability, no Hazardous Materials are present at any Leased Real Property.  

Section 3.18               Compliance with Laws, Judgments
and Governmental Authorizations .  

(a)           Except as set forth in Section 3.18(a) of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule, each Acquired Company has complied in all material respects with all, and
no Acquired Company has violated in any
material respect any, Laws, Judgments and Governmental Authorizations
applicable to it or to the conduct of its business or the ownership or use of
any of its properties or assets.  Except
as set forth in Section 3.18(a) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule, no
Acquired Company has received, at any time in the past three years, any written
notice or other communication from any Governmental Authority or any other
Person regarding any actual, alleged or potential violation of, or failure to
comply with, any Law, Judgment or Governmental Authorization, or any actual or
alleged obligation on the part of any Acquired Company to undertake, or to bear
all or any portion of the cost of, any remedial action of any nature.  

(b)           Section 3.18(b) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of each material Governmental Authorization
that is held by each Acquired Company or that otherwise relates to the business
of, or any of the assets owned or used by, any Acquired Company, all of which
are valid and in full force and effect. 
To the Sellers  Knowledge, the Governmental Authorizations listed in Section 3.18(b) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule collectively constitute all of the material Governmental Authorizations
necessary to permit the Acquired Companies to conduct their businesses lawfully
in the manner in which they currently conduct such businesses and to permit the
Acquired Companies to own and use their assets in the manner in which they own
and use such assets.  

(c)           Section 3.18(c) of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of each Judgment to which any
Acquired Company, or any of the assets owned or used by any Acquired Company,
is or has been subject.  To the Sellers 
Knowledge, no director, officer, employee or agent of any Acquired Company is
subject to any Judgment that prohibits such director, officer, employee or
agent from engaging in or continuing any conduct, activity or practice relating
to the business of any Acquired Company.  

Section 3.19               Corruption and Trade Regulation .  

(a)           Except to the extent permitted by applicable Laws, neither
any Acquired Company, nor any of their respective officers, directors,
employees, consultants, representatives, agents or Affiliates (nor any Person
acting on behalf of any of the foregoing) has directly, or indirectly through a
third-party intermediary, paid, offered, given, promised to pay, or authorized
the payment of any money or anything of value (including any gift, sample,
travel, meal and lodging expense, entertainment, service, equipment, debt
forgiveness, donation, grant or other thing of value, however characterized) to
(i) any officer or employee of a Governmental Authority, (ii) any
Person acting for or on behalf of any Governmental Authority, (iii) any
political party or official thereof, (iv) any candidate for political
office or (v) any other Person at the suggestion, request, direction or
for the benefit of any of the above-described Persons.  

(b)           Neither any Acquired Company, nor any of their respective
officers, directors, employees, consultants, representatives, agents or
Affiliates has violated or is in violation of any applicable anti-bribery Law,
including Laws implementing the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign
Public Officials in International Business Transactions (to the extent
applicable).  

(c)           All transactions of the Acquired Companies have been
properly and accurately recorded in all material respects on the books and
records of the Acquired Companies and each document on which  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed separately
with the Commission.  

29  

entries
in the Acquired Companies  books and records are based (including purchase
orders, customer or company invoices and service agreements) is complete and
accurate in all material respects.  

(d)           Each Acquired Company has made all payments to third
parties pursuant to valid Contracts or invoices and by check mailed to such
third parties  principal place of business or by wire transfer to an account
held in the name of the third party in a bank located in the same jurisdiction
as such party s principal place of business or to a place of business in a
jurisdiction where such third party performs service pursuant to a valid
Contract.  

(e)           Neither any Acquired Company, nor any Person acting on
behalf of any Acquired Company, has, directly, or indirectly through a
third-party intermediary, entered into any Contract that remains in effect with
any Person resident in the following countries: Bahrain, Bangladesh, Indonesia,
Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Taiwan, United
Arab Emirates, or Yemen and that contains provisions that would be prohibited
by or subject to penalty under the anti-boycott Laws of the United States.  

(f)            Except to the extent permitted by applicable Laws or as
set forth in Section 3.19(f) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule, no
Acquired Company has at any time in the past five years engaged in the sale,
supply, purchase, import, export, re-export or transfer of products or
services, either directly or indirectly, to, from or within Cuba, Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Myanmar (Burma), North Korea, Sudan, or Syria (the   Certain Nations  ),
or is a party to or beneficiary of, or has any interest in, any franchise,
license, management or other Contract with any Person, either public or
private, in the Certain Nations or in relation to the supply of services to,
from or within the Certain Nations, or is a party to any investment, deposit,
loan, borrowing or credit arrangement or involved in any other financial
dealings, with any Person, either public or private, in the Certain Nations.  

(g)           Since July 1, 2002, except as set forth on Schedule
3.19(g) of the Seller Disclosure Schedule, all exports, re-exports, sales,
supplies or transfers of products or services of the Acquired Companies have
been effected in accordance with all applicable Laws, including
anti-corruption, customs, export control, trade sanctions, anti-terrorism and
anti-boycott Laws of the United States or any other relevant jurisdiction.  

Section 3.20               Legal Proceedings .  Section 3.20 of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of all pending Proceedings (a) by
or against any Acquired Company or any of the properties or assets owned,
leased or operated by any Acquired Company, (b) to the Sellers  Knowledge,
by or against any of the directors or officers of the Acquired Companies in
their capacities as such or (c) that challenge, or that may have the
effect of preventing, delaying, making illegal or otherwise interfering with,
any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.  Except as set forth in Section 3.20 of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule, to the Sellers  Knowledge, no other such
Proceeding has been threatened.  The
Sellers have delivered to the Purchasers accurate and complete copies of all
pleadings, correspondence, audit response letters and other documents relating
to such Proceedings.  

Section 3.21               Customers and Suppliers .  Section 3.21 of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of details regarding the
Acquired Companies  [***] largest direct
hotel suppliers as of September 18, 2007 and the Acquired Companies  [***] largest wholesale, tour operator and
other indirect hotel suppliers as of August 31, 2007.  There exists no actual, and the Sellers have
no Knowledge of any threatened, termination, cancellation or material
limitation of, or any material change in, the business relationship of any
Acquired Company with any customer, supplier, group of customers or group of
suppliers listed in Section 3.21 of the Seller Disclosure Schedule.  To the Sellers  Knowledge, no customer or
supplier so listed has indicated within the past [***] that it will stop or materially decrease  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted
portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

30  

the rate of its
transactions, or otherwise materially change its business relationship, with
any Acquired Company.  

   Section 3.22               Insurance .  Section 3.22 of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of all certificates of insurance,
binders for insurance policies and insurance maintained by any Acquired
Company, or under which any Acquired Company has been the beneficiary of
coverage at any time within the past five years.  All premiums due and payable under such
insurance policies have been paid.  The
Sellers have no Knowledge of any threatened termination of, or material premium
increase with respect to, any of those policies.  Section 3.22 of the Seller Disclosure
Schedule further sets forth an accurate and complete list of all pending claims
asserted by the Acquired Companies pursuant to any such certificate of
insurance, binder or policy, and describes the nature and status of the
claims.  To the Sellers  Knowledge, no
Acquired Company has failed to give in a timely manner any notice of any claim
that may be insured under any certificate of insurance, binder or policy
required to be listed in Section 3.22 of the Seller Disclosure Schedule
and there are no outstanding claims which have been denied or disputed by the
insurer.  No Acquired Company has ever
maintained, established, sponsored, participated in or contributed to any
self-insurance program, retrospective premium program or captive insurance
program.  

   Section 3.23               Relationships
with Affiliates .  No Seller or
Affiliate of any Seller, nor any director, officer or other Affiliate of any
Acquired Company has any interest in any property (whether real, personal or
mixed and whether tangible or intangible) used in or pertaining to any Acquired
Company s business.  No Seller, or
Affiliate of any Seller, nor any director, officer or other Affiliate of any
Acquired Company owns (of record or as a beneficial owner) an equity interest
or any other financial or profit interest in a Person that has (a) had
business dealings or a financial interest in any transaction with any Acquired
Company or (b) engaged in competition with any Acquired Company with
respect to any line of the products or services of such Acquired Company in any
market presently served by such Acquired Company, except for less than [***] of the outstanding capital stock of any
competing business that is publicly traded on any recognized exchange or in the
over-the-counter market.  Except as set
forth in Section 3.23 of the Seller Disclosure Schedule, to the Sellers 
Knowledge, no Seller, or Affiliate of any Seller, nor any director, officer or
other Affiliate of any Acquired Company, is a party to any Contract with, or
has any claim or right against, any Acquired Company other than agreements
pertaining to employment, intercompany obligations owed by one Acquired Company
to another Acquired Company, or Benefit Obligations.  

   Section 3.24               Insolvency .  No Acquired Company is insolvent or will be
rendered insolvent by any of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.  As used in this Section 3.24,
 insolvent  means that the sum of the present fair saleable value of such
Person s assets does not and will not exceed its debts and other probable
Liabilities.  

   Section 3.25               Brokers
or Finders .  Except as set forth in Section 3.25
of the Seller Disclosure Schedule, no Seller, Acquired Company or any Person
acting on behalf of any Seller or Acquired Company has incurred any Liability
for brokerage or finders  fees or agents  commissions or other similar payment
in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.  

   ARTICLE 4 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE PURCHASERS   

  The Purchasers jointly and
severally represent and warrant to the Sellers that as of the Closing Date the
statements set forth in this Article 4 are true and correct, except,
subject to Section 8.8, as set forth on the disclosure schedule delivered
by the Purchasers to the Sellers concurrently with the execution and delivery
of this Agreement and dated as of the Closing Date (the   Purchaser Disclosure
Schedule  ):  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

31  

Section 4.1                 Organization
and Good Standing .  Each Purchaser is
a corporation or limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing (where applicable) under the Laws of its jurisdiction of
incorporation.  Share Purchaser is a
direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Priceline US.  

   Section 4.2                 Authority
and Enforceability .  Each Purchaser
has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and each of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party and to
perform its obligations under this Agreement and each such Ancillary
Agreement.  The execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements have been duly
authorized by all necessary action on the part of the Purchasers.  This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
by each Purchaser and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of
each Purchaser, enforceable against each Purchaser in accordance with its terms
subject to the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance,
reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting
creditors  rights generally and general equitable principles (whether
considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).  Upon the execution and delivery by the
Purchasers of the Ancillary Agreements, such Ancillary Agreements will
constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Purchasers party
thereto, enforceable against such Purchasers in accordance with their terms
subject to the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance,
reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting
creditors  rights generally and general equitable principles (whether
considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).  

   Section 4.3                 No
Conflict .  Neither the execution,
delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Purchasers, nor the
consummation by the Purchasers of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, will (a) directly or indirectly (with or without notice, lapse
of time or both), conflict with, result in a breach or violation of, constitute
a default (or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation,
acceleration, suspension or modification of any obligation or loss of any    benefit) under, result in payment becoming
due under, or result in the imposition of any Encumbrance on any of the
properties or assets of either Purchaser under (i) the certificate of
incorporation, bylaws or other comparable charter or organizational documents
of either Purchaser or any resolution adopted by the stockholders or board of
directors of either Purchaser, (ii) any Governmental Authorization or
Contract to which either Purchaser is a party or by which either Purchaser is
bound or to which any of its properties or assets is subject or (iii) any
Law or Judgment applicable to either Purchaser or any of its properties or
assets; or (b) require either Purchaser to obtain any consent, waiver,
approval, ratification, permit, license, Governmental Authorization or other
authorization of, give any notice to, or make any filing or registration with,
any Governmental Authority or other Person, except, in the case of the
foregoing clauses (ii) and (iii), as would not have or be reasonably
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Purchasers or their ability to
perform their obligations under this Agreement.  

   Section 4.4                 Legal
Proceedings .  There is no pending
Proceeding that has been commenced against either Purchaser and that
challenges, or may have the effect of preventing, delaying, making illegal or
otherwise interfering with, any of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.  To the Purchasers  Knowledge,
no such Proceeding has been threatened.  

   Section 4.5                 Investment
Intent .  Each Purchaser is acquiring
the Equity Interests (as applicable) for its own account and not with a view to
their distribution within the meaning of Section 2(11) of the Securities
Act.  

   Section 4.6                 Brokers or Finders .  Neither Purchaser nor any Person acting on
behalf of either Purchaser has incurred any Liability for brokerage or finders 
fees or agents  commissions or other similar payment in connection with any of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

32  

ARTICLE 5 
COVENANTS   

   Section 5.1                 Expenses .  Except as otherwise expressly provided in
this Agreement, each party will bear its respective direct and indirect
expenses incurred in connection with the preparation and negotiation of this
Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, including all fees and expenses of its advisors and
representatives.  All amounts relating to
any financial, legal, accounting or other advisor, and all other transaction
fees and expenses, in each case incurred by the Acquired Companies in
connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, will be paid by the Sellers
in full out of the Initial Purchase Price on the Closing Date (including any
fee payable to Sparring Partners Capital LLC with respect to its engagement by
the Company in relation to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement) to
the respective payees thereof and/or into a separate escrow fund to be
established with the Escrow Agent pursuant to an agreement between the Escrow
Agent and the Seller Representative.  

   Section 5.2                 Confidentiality .  

  (a)           From and after the
Closing, the confidentiality obligations of Priceline US (and any of its
Affiliates) under the Mutual Nondisclosure Agreement between the Agoda Companies and Priceline US dated
May 17, 2007 (the   Confidentiality Agreement  ) will terminate with
respect to all Confidential Information. 
From and after the Closing,
each Seller will, and will cause each of its Affiliates to, maintain the
confidentiality of, and not use for their own benefit or the benefit of any
other Person (but may disclose to its advisors and representatives as
reasonably required, provided such advisors or representatives are made aware of
the confidentiality obligations under this Section 5.2 and the disclosing
Seller remains responsible for any breach thereof by such advisors or
representatives), the Confidential Information. 
As used in this Section 5.2,  Confidential Information  means any
confidential information, in whatever form or medium, concerning the business
of any of the Acquired Companies, but will not, however, include information
which (i) is or becomes publicly available other than as a result of a
disclosure by any Seller, (ii) is or becomes available to any Seller on a
non-confidential basis from a source (other than an Acquired Company or any
director, officer, employee, agent, consultant or other advisor or
representative of an Acquired Company) which, to the knowledge of the Seller
after due inquiry, is not prohibited from disclosing such information to the
Seller by a legal, contractual or fiduciary obligation to any Acquired Company
or (iii) is required to be disclosed by any Seller by law, any
Governmental Authority or pursuant to any proceeding;  provided ,  however ,
such Seller will notify the Purchasers promptly of the request or requirement
for disclosure and the Purchasers shall have the right to seek an appropriate
protective order.  

  (c)           Effective upon the
Closing, the Sellers hereby assign to the Company all of their rights under
each confidentiality agreement (other than the Confidentiality Agreement) to
which any of the Sellers is a party and which pertain to the business or
operations of any Acquired Company.  Each
Seller, upon the request of either Purchaser from time to time, will use its
commercially reasonable efforts to assist the Company in enforcing the
provisions of any such confidentiality agreement.  

   Section 5.3                 Noncompetition
and Nonsolicitation .  

  (a)           The Management Shareholders acknowledge that the Acquired
Companies have over many years devoted substantial time, effort and resources
to developing the Acquired Companies  trade secrets and other confidential and
proprietary information, as well as the Acquired Companies  relationships with
customers, suppliers, employees and others doing business with the Acquired
Companies; that such relationships, trade secrets and other information are
vital to the successful conduct of the Acquired Companies  businesses in the
future; that because of the Management Shareholders    

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

33  

access to the Acquired
Companies  confidential information and trade secrets, the Management
Shareholders would be in a unique position to divert business from the Acquired
Companies and to commit irreparable damage to the Acquired Companies were the
Management Shareholders to be allowed to compete with the Acquired Companies or
to commit any of the other acts prohibited below; that the enforcement of the
restrictive covenants against the Management Shareholders would not impose any
undue burden upon any Management Shareholder; and that the ability to enforce
the restrictive covenants against the Management Shareholders is a material
inducement to the decision of the Purchasers to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement. 
Accordingly, during the period commencing on the Closing Date and ending
on the [***] of the Closing Date:  

  (i)            no Management Shareholder will, anywhere in the world,
directly or indirectly, whether as a principal, agent, employee or otherwise,
or alone or in association with any Person, own, share in the earnings of,
invest in the stock, bonds or other securities of, manage, operate, control,
participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, finance
(whether as a lender, investor or otherwise), guaranty the obligations of, be
employed by, associated with, or otherwise aid or assist in any manner any
Person that is engaged in or competitive with the business of any Acquired
Company (a   Competing Activity    provided ,  however , if
any Management Shareholder s employment with the Acquired Companies ceases for
any reason before the [***] of the
Closing Date, the scope of Competing Activity applicable to such Management
Shareholder shall be limited to business conducted by the Acquired Companies as
of the Closing Date and any additional business conducted by the Acquired
Companies in the period between the Closing Date and the date such employment
ends.  The Management Shareholders will,
however, not be in violation of this Section 5.3(a) solely by reason
of investing in stock, bonds or other securities of any Person engaged in a
Competing Activity (but without otherwise participating in such business), if (A) such
stock, bonds or other securities are listed on any national securities exchange
or have been registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and (B) such investment does not exceed, in the case
of any class of the capital stock of any one issuer, [***] of the issued and outstanding shares of such capital stock,
or, in the case of bonds or other securities, [***]of
the aggregate principal amount thereof issued and outstanding;  

  (ii)           no Management Shareholder will directly or indirectly (A) solicit,
on behalf of a competitive business, the business of any Person who is a
customer of any Acquired Company, (B) cause, induce or attempt to cause or
induce any customer, supplier, independent contractor, licensee, licensor, or
franchisee or other business relation of any Acquired Company to cease or
reduce the extent of its business relationship with such Acquired Company or to
deal with any competitor of such Acquired Company or (C) in any way
interfere with the relationship, between any Acquired Company and any of its
customers, suppliers, licensees, licensors, franchisees or other business
relations;  

  (iii)          no Management Shareholder will directly or indirectly,
recruit, solicit, cause, induce or attempt to cause or induce any employee of
any Acquired Company to leave his or her employment either for the Management
Shareholder or for any other Person, or in any way interfere with the
relationship between any Acquired Company and any of its employees; and  

  (iv)          no Seller will disparage the Purchasers or any of their
Affiliates, the Acquired Companies, or any of their respective directors,
officers, employees or agents who are known as such to such Seller, except that
this Section 5.3(a)(iv) shall not apply to any truthful testimony or
responses to inquiries from any Governmental Authority or with respect to any
legal proceeding to which the Seller is a party.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

34  

(b)           In the event a
judicial determination is made that any provision of this Section 5.3
constitutes an unreasonable or otherwise unenforceable restriction against any
Seller, the provisions of this Section 5.3 shall be rendered void only to
the extent that such judicial determination finds such provisions to be
unreasonable or otherwise unenforceable with respect to any Seller.  In this regard, any judicial authority
construing this Agreement shall be empowered to sever any portion of the
territory, any prohibited business activity or any time period from the
coverage of this Section 5.3 and to apply the provisions of this Section 5.3
to the remaining portion of the territory, the remaining business activities
and the remaining time period not so severed by such judicial authority.  Moreover, notwithstanding the fact that any
provision of this Section 5.3 is determined not to be specifically
enforceable, the Purchasers shall nevertheless be entitled to recover monetary
damages as a result of the breach of such provision by the Sellers.  The time period during which the prohibitions
set forth in this Section 5.3 shall apply, shall be tolled and suspended
for a period equal to the aggregate time during which any Seller violates such
prohibitions in any respect.  

  Section 5.4              Public
Announcements .  For purposes of
securities law compliance, each party agrees not to issue any press release or
make any other public announcement relating to this Agreement without the prior
written approval of the other party, except that the Purchasers reserve the
right, without the Company s or any Seller s prior consent, to make any public
disclosure it believes in good faith is required by applicable securities laws
or securities listing standards (in which case the Purchasers shall advise the
Sellers prior to making such disclosure and shall give the Sellers an
opportunity to review such disclosure).  

   Section 5.5                [***].  

   Section 5.6                 Further
Actions .  Subject to the other
express provisions of this Agreement, upon the reasonable request of any party
to this Agreement, the other parties will (a) furnish to the requesting
party any additional information, (b) execute and deliver, at their own
expense, any other documents and (c) take any other actions as the
requesting party may reasonably require to more effectively carry out the
intent of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
(including those actions necessary to (i) register the Share Transfer
Forms with the Mauritian Registrar General and to ensure that the name of the
Share Purchaser is entered into the shareholder register of the Company, and (ii) to
procure that A.T. takes all further actions necessary for all rights, interest
and title to the IP Assets to vest in AGIP and to be registered with applicable
Governmental Authorities.  

   ARTICLE 6 
CERTAIN TAX MATTERS   

   Section 6.1                 Tax
Returns .  

  (a)           Tax Returns with
respect to the Acquired Companies for the period ending on or before the
Closing Date will be prepared in a manner consistent with and utilizing the
accounting methods utilized in the preparation of the prior Tax Returns of the
Acquired Companies.  The Company (i) will
submit all such Tax Returns to the Seller Representative for its review at
least 30 days prior to filing, (ii) will not file such Tax Returns without
the Seller Representative s prior consent, which consent will not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed and (iii) will, promptly after filing,
forward to the Seller Representative an accurate and complete copy of such
filed Tax Returns and proof of payment of the subject Taxes.  

  (b)           The Purchaser will file all Tax Returns with respect to
the Acquired Companies for all taxable periods ending after the Closing Date.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

35  

Section 6.2                 Payment
of Taxes .  

  (a)           Subject to 6.2(b),
Sellers shall pay all Taxes imposed on the Acquired Companies for all periods
ending on or prior to the Closing Date to the extent they exceed the amount of
Taxes reflected as Liabilities in the calculation of [***] as finally determined pursuant to Section 2.4 of this
Agreement.  

  (b)           Taxes that are
payable with respect to a taxable period that begins before the Closing Date
and ends after the Closing Date will be allocated to the portion of the period
that ends on the Closing Date in accordance with Section 6.3.  

  (c)           In the case of Tax
Returns filed by the Acquired Companies for periods ending on or before the
Closing Date, and periods described in Section 6.3 of this Agreement, the
Purchaser shall inform the Seller Representative of any amounts due from the
Sellers under this Section 6.2 at least ten (10) days prior to the
due date of the pertinent Tax Return and the Sellers will pay such amounts to
the Purchaser in immediately available funds at least two business days prior
to the due date of the Tax Return.  

  (d)           Purchaser shall not:
(i) make an election under Section 338 of the Code, as amended (or
any similar provision under foreign, federal, state or local law) with respect
to the sale of the Acquired Companies hereunder, and (ii) sell, transfer
or dispose of any assets of the Acquired Companies after the Closing Date and
before January 1, 2008, other than sales or dispositions that occur in the
ordinary course of business.  Nothing shall
prevent the Acquired Companies from selling or otherwise disposing of their
assets outside of the ordinary course of business after December 31, 2007.  

   Section 6.3                 Tax
Apportionment .  In the case of Taxes
that are payable with respect to a taxable period that begins before the
Closing Date and ends after the Closing Date, the portion of any such Tax that
is allocable to the portion of the period ending on the Closing Date will be:  

  (a)           in the case of Taxes
that are either (i) based upon or related to income or receipts or (ii) imposed
in connection with any sale or other transfer or assignment of property (real
or personal, tangible or intangible) (other than any transaction Taxes
contemplated by Section 6.5), deemed equal to the amount which would be
payable if the taxable period ended as of the close of business on the Closing
Date; and  

  (b)           in the case of Taxes
imposed on a periodic basis with respect to the assets of the Acquired
Companies, or otherwise measured by the level of any item during a period, deemed
to be the amount of such Taxes for the entire period (or, in the case of such
Taxes determined on an arrears basis, the amount of such Taxes for the
immediately preceding period), multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which
is the number of calendar days in the period ending on the Closing Date and the
denominator of which is the number of calendar days in the entire period.  

   Section 6.4                 Tax
Elections .  The Sellers will not, and
will not cause or permit any Acquired Company to, without the prior written
consent of the Purchasers (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed), make or revoke, or cause or permit to be made or revoked, any Tax
election pertaining to any Acquired Company or the ownership of the Shares or
Membership Interests.  

   Section 6.5                 Transactional Taxes .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, all transfer, documentary, recording, notarial, sales, use,
registration, stamp and other similar Taxes or fees imposed by any taxing
authority in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
will be borne by the Sellers.  The
Sellers will, at their own expense, file all necessary Tax Returns and other
documentation with respect to all such Taxes and, if required by applicable
Law, the Purchasers will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, join
in the execution of any such Tax Returns or other documentation.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

36  

Section 6.6                 Other
Tax Matters .  

  (a)            Cooperation with
Respect to Tax Returns .  Purchasers
and Sellers agree to furnish or cause to be furnished to each other, and each
at their own expense, as promptly as practicable, such information (including
access to books and records) and assistance, including making employees
available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional information and
explanations of any material provided, relating to the Acquired Companies as is
reasonably necessary for the filing of any Tax Return, for the preparation for
any audit, and for the prosecution or defense of any claim, suit or proceeding
relating to any adjustment or proposed adjustment with respect to Taxes.  Purchasers or the Acquired Companies shall
retain in their possession, and shall provide Seller Representative reasonable
access to (including the right to make copies of), such supporting books and
records and any other materials that Seller Representative  may specify with respect to Tax matters
relating to any taxable period ending on or prior to the Closing Date until the
relevant statute of limitations has expired. 
After such time, Purchasers may dispose of such material, provided that
prior to such disposition Purchasers shall give Seller Representative a
reasonable opportunity to take possession of such materials.  

  (b)            Refunds .  To
the extent there is a Final Judgment relating to the Acquired Companies for
periods (or portions thereof) ending on or before the Closing Date which
results in a refund of Taxes that were either (i) reflected as a Liability
in the [***] and actually resulted in a
reduction of the Purchase Price (i.e., because the Liability was reflected in
both the [***] and [***] calculations or, alternatively, because
the Liability was reflected in [***] and
Sellers were required to make a payment to Purchasers under Section 2.4(f) of
this Agreement); or (ii) not reflected as a Liability in either the [***] or the [***]
because the Sellers in good faith were not aware of the Liability, the
Purchasers shall pay the refund to the Seller Representative less any taxes due
on the receipt of the refund (if any). 
However, the Purchasers shall not pay to Sellers a refund received
relating to the Acquired Companies for periods (or portions thereof) ending on
or before the Closing Date if the refund received was reflected as an asset in
the calculation of the [***].  

(c)            Indemnity
Payments .  The Sellers and the
Purchasers agree to treat any indemnity payment made pursuant to Article 7
as an adjustment to the Purchase Price for federal, state, local and foreign
income tax purposes.  

  (d)            Amended Returns .  No Tax Return with respect to the Acquired
Companies (i) for periods ending on or before the Closing Date or (ii) which
begins before and ends after the Closing Date, shall be amended if it would
result in an increase in the amount of Taxes for which Sellers are liable under
this Agreement, without the prior written consent of Seller Representative.  

   ARTICLE 7 
INDEMNIFICATION   

   Section 7.1                 Indemnification
by the Sellers .        Subject to the limitations set
forth in this Article 7, the Sellers, jointly and severally, will
indemnify and hold harmless the Purchasers, each of the Purchasers  Affiliates,
each of the Acquired Companies and each of their respective directors,
officers, employees, agents, consultants, advisors, representatives and equity
holders (collectively, the   Purchaser Indemnified Parties  ) from and
against any and all Losses incurred or suffered by the Purchaser Indemnified
Parties arising out of, relating to or resulting from any of the following:  

  (a)           any
inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty of the Sellers
contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered by the Sellers in
connection with this Agreement;  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

37  

(b)           any breach or default of any covenant
or agreement of the Sellers contained in this Agreement;  

  (c)           any matter disclosed in (i) Section 3.9(k) of
the Seller Disclosure Schedule (including any claim arising from an alleged
breach of the Letter Agreement, dated March 8, 2006 referred to therein)
or (ii) Section 3.20  of the
Seller Disclosure Schedule or any Covered Claims (as defined in  Schedule G );  

  (d)           Subject to Article 6 of this
Agreement, (i) any Taxes of any Acquired Company with respect to taxable
periods ending on or before the Closing Date (in excess of the amount of Taxes
reflected as Liabilities in the calculation of   [***]   (as finally determined in accordance
with Section 2.4)), (ii) with respect to taxable periods beginning
before the Closing Date and ending after the Closing Date, any Taxes of any
Acquired Company which are allocable, pursuant to Section 6.3, to the
portion of such period ending on the Closing Date (to the extent in excess of
the amount of Taxes reflected as Liabilities in the calculation of   [***]   (as
finally determined in accordance with Section 2.4)), (iii) any Taxes
with respect to prior taxable periods listed in clauses (i) and (ii) hereof
relating to any member of an affiliated group with which any Acquired Company
has filed a Tax Return on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis; and (iv) any
Loss suffered by Purchaser Indemnified Parties with respect to their
recognition of any subpart F income (as defined in section 952 of the Code)
accrued by the Acquired Companies during the period (or portions thereof)
ending on or prior to the Closing Date;  

  (e)           any Liability (whether or not
disclosed on any Schedule to this Agreement or otherwise disclosed to or known
by the Purchasers or any of their respective representatives or agents) of or
relating to any Acquired Company or any of their respective Affiliates:  

  (i)            arising
out of or related to the simultaneous employment prior to the Closing Date by
more than one Acquired Company (or any of their Affiliates) of any current or
former employee of any Acquired Company; or  

  (ii)           arising
out of claims of infringement or misappropriation of Intellectual Property
rights of any current or former employee or contractor (or any of its current
or former agents or employees) of any of the Acquired Companies with respect to
computer software and related functional specifications, databases, procedures
manuals and design documentation, in each case that were created prior to the
Closing Date by (A) any such current or former employee in the scope of
his or her employment or (B) any current or former contractor (or any of
its current or former agents or employees) in the scope of its (or their)
engagement with any of the Acquired Companies;  

  (f)            any claim (i) by any Affiliate
of any Seller (or any shareholder of any such Affiliate), that is not an
Acquired Company, arising out of acts or occurrences prior to the Closing or as
a result of the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
at Closing; or (ii) relating to the operation by any Affiliate of any
Seller (or any shareholder of any such Affiliate), that is not an Acquired
Company, of any business other than the Business, at any time (whether before
or after Closing); and  

  (g)           any Proceedings, demands or
assessments incidental to any of the matters set forth in clauses (a) through
(f) above.  

   Section 7.2                 Indemnification
by the Purchasers .        Subject to the limitations set
forth in this Article 7, the Purchasers, jointly and severally, will
indemnify and hold harmless the Sellers from and against any and all Losses
incurred or suffered by the Sellers arising out of, relating to or resulting
from any of the following:  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

38  

(a)           any inaccuracy in or breach of any
representation or warranty of the Purchasers contained in this Agreement or in
any certificate delivered by the Purchasers in connection with this Agreement;  

  (b)           any breach or default of any covenant
or agreement of the Purchasers set forth in this Agreement; and  

  (c)           any Proceedings, demands or
assessments incidental to any of the matters set forth in clauses (a) and (b) above.  

   Section 7.3                 Claim
Procedure .  

  (a)           A party that seeks
indemnity under this Article 7 (an   Indemnified Party  ) will give
prompt written notice (a   Claim Notice  ) to the party from whom
indemnification is sought (an   Indemnifying Party  ) containing (i) a
description and, if known, the estimated amount of any Losses incurred or
reasonably expected to be incurred by the Indemnified Party, (ii) a
reasonable explanation of the basis for the Claim Notice to the extent of the
facts then known by the Indemnified Party and (iii) a demand for payment
of those Losses.  

  (b)           Within   [***]   after delivery of a Claim Notice, the
Indemnifying Party will deliver to the Indemnified Party a written response in
which the Indemnifying Party will either:  

  (i)            agree that the Indemnified Party is entitled to receive
all of the Losses at issue in the Claim Notice; or  

  (ii)           dispute the Indemnified Party s entitlement to
indemnification by delivering to the Indemnified Party a written notice (an  Objection
Notice ) setting forth in reasonable detail each disputed item, the basis for
each such disputed item and certifying that all such disputed items are being
disputed in good faith.  

  (c)           If the Indemnifying Party fails to
take either of the foregoing actions within   [***]   after delivery of the Claim Notice, then
the Indemnifying Party will be deemed to have irrevocably accepted the Claim
Notice and the Indemnifying Party will be deemed to have irrevocably agreed to
pay the Losses at issue in the Claim Notice.  

  (d)           If the Indemnifying Party delivers an
Objection Notice to the Indemnified Party within   [***]   after delivery of the Claim Notice, then
the dispute may be resolved by any legally available means consistent with the
provisions of Section 8.12.  

  (e)           If any Purchaser Indemnified Party is
the Indemnified Party with respect to any claim for indemnification pursuant to
this Article 7, the parties will contemporaneously deliver to the Escrow
Agent copies of each Claim Notice and Objection Notice in connection with such
claim.  

  (f)            Any indemnification of the Purchaser
Indemnified Parties pursuant to this Article 7 will be satisfied pursuant
to the provisions of Section 7.7 hereof.  

  (g)           Any
indemnification of the Sellers pursuant to this Article 7 will be effected
by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts
designated by the Seller Representative. 
All indemnification payments to be received by the Sellers in accordance
with this Article 7 will be allocated among the Sellers in proportion to
their respective shares of the Purchase Price as set forth on  Schedule A  and
 Schedule B .  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

39  

(h)           Subject to the provisions of Section 7.7
hereof, the foregoing indemnification payments will be made within   [***]   after the
date (the   Indemnity Determination Date  ) on which (i) the amount
of such payments are determined by mutual agreement of the parties, (ii) the
amount of such payments are determined pursuant to Section 7.3(c) if
an Objection Notice has not been timely delivered in accordance with Section 7.3(b) or
(iii) both such amount and the Indemnifying Party s obligation to pay such
amount have been finally determined by a final Judgment of a court having
jurisdiction over such proceeding as permitted by Section 8.12 if an
Objection Notice has been timely delivered in accordance with Section 7.3(b) (the
final determination of such indemnification obligation and payment in
accordance with the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) being referred
to herein as the   Indemnity Final Determination  ).  

  (i)            For purposes of  Section 7.3 and Section 7.4, (i) if
the Sellers comprise the Indemnifying Party, any references to the Indemnifying
Party (except provisions relating to an obligation to make or a right to
receive any payments) will be deemed to refer to the Seller Representative and (ii) if
the Sellers comprise the Indemnified Party, any references to the Indemnified
Party (except provisions relating to an obligation to make or a right to
receive any payments) will be deemed to refer to the Seller Representative.  

   Section 7.4                 Third-Party
Claims .     Except as set forth in  Schedule
G , the following procedures shall apply with respect to Third-Party Claims
(as defined herein):  

  (a)           In order for any Indemnified Party to
make a claim for any indemnification as provided for under Sections 7.1 and 7.2
in respect of, arising out of or involving a claim or demand made by any Person
not a party to this Agreement against the Indemnified Party (a   Third-Party
Claim  ), the Indemnified Party will give written notice (a   Third-Party
Claim Notice  ) to the Indemnifying Party within   [***]   after receipt by such Indemnified Party
of notice of the Third-Party Claim and will include in such Third-Party Claim
Notice (i) notice of the commencement of any Proceeding relating to such
claim and (ii) the facts constituting the basis for such Proceeding and
the amount of the damages claimed by the other Person, in each case to the
extent known to the Indemnified Party. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no delay or deficiency on the part of the
Indemnified Party in so notifying the Indemnifying Party will relieve the
Indemnifying Party of any Liability or obligation under this Agreement except
to the extent the Indemnifying Party is materially prejudiced by the delay or
other deficiency  .  

  (b)             If a
Third-Party Claim is made against an Indemnified Party, the Indemnifying Party
shall be entitled to undertake, conduct and control the defense thereof and, if
it so chooses, to assume the defense thereof with counsel of its choosing (with
such counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party), at its own
expense, provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not have the
right to undertake, conduct and control the defense of any Third-Party Claim if
(i) such claim includes both the Indemnified Party and the Indemnifying
Party, and the former shall have been advised in writing by counsel (with a
copy to the Indemnifying Party) that there are one or more legal or equitable
defenses available to them that are different from or additional to those
available to the Indemnifying Party; or (ii) the Indemnifying Party fails
to provide reasonable assurance to the Indemnified Party of its financial
capacity to defend such Third-Party Claim and provide indemnification with
respect to such Third-Party Claim.  If
the Indemnifying Party shall undertake, conduct and control the defense of any
Third-Party Claim, the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to participate, at
its own cost and expense, in the defense of such claim and to employ separate
counsel of its choosing for such purpose.    Should the
Indemnifying Party so elect to assume the defense of a Third-Party Claim, the
Indemnifying Party shall not, as long as it diligently conducts such defense,
be liable to the Indemnified Party for legal expenses subsequently incurred by
the Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof, other than
reasonable costs of investigation.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

40  

(c)           If
the Indemnifying Party assumes the defense of such a Third-Party Claim, (i) it
will be conclusively established for purposes of this Agreement that that the
claims that are the subject of the Third-Party Claim are within the scope of
and subject to indemnification under this Article  (ii) no
compromise or settlement of such claims may be effected by the Indemnifying
Party without the Indemnified Party s consent in writing (which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) unless (A) there is
no admission of any violation of Law or any violation of the rights of any
Person and no effect on any other claims that may be made against the
Indemnified Party, and (B) the sole relief provided is monetary damages
that are paid in full by the Indemnifying Party and which release the
Indemnified Party completely and unconditionally in connection with such
Third-Party Claim.  The Indemnified Party
will have no Liability with respect to any compromise or settlement of such
claims effected without its consent.  

(d)           Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Indemnifying Party shall not be entitled to assume the
defense of any Third-Party Claim (and shall be liable for the fees and expenses
of counsel incurred by the Indemnified Party in defending such Third-Party
Claim) if the Third-Party Claim seeks an order, injunction or other equitable
relief or relief for other than money damages against the Indemnified Party.  

(e)           If notice is given to an Indemnifying Party of a
Third-Party Claim and the Indemnifying Party does not, within [***] after the Indemnified Party s notice is
given, give notice to the Indemnified Party of its election to undertake,
conduct and control the defense of such Third-Party Claim, the Indemnified
Party has the right to undertake, conduct and control the defense of any such
claim, provided, however, that (i) the Indemnified Party shall obtain the
prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld,   conditioned
or delayed  ) before entering into any compromise or settlement of such claims, and
(ii) the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to participate in the
defense of such claim and to employ separate counsel of its choosing for such
purpose, at its own expense.  

(f)            The
party not controlling the defense under this Section 7.4 (the   Non-Controlling
Party  ) will, upon reasonable request, furnish the party controlling the
defense (the   Controlling Party  ) with such information as it may have
with respect to such Third-Party Claim (including copies of any summons,
complaint or other pleading which may have been served on such party and any
written claim, demand, invoice, billing or other documents evidencing or
asserting the same) and will otherwise reasonably cooperate with and assist the
Controlling Party in the defense of such Third-Party Claim.  All reasonable out-of-pocket costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the Non-Controlling Party s cooperation
shall be borne by the Controlling Party.  

Section 7.5                 Survival .  

(a)           All
representations and warranties contained in this Agreement and any certificate
delivered pursuant to this Agreement will survive the Closing for a period of   [***]   from the
Closing Date;  provided ,  however , that (i) the
representations and warranties set forth in Sections 3.14 ( Tax Matters ),
and the corresponding right to make claims thereunder, will survive until   [***]   following
the   [***]  , and (ii) the representations and warranties set
forth in   [***]  . 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the rights
of the Purchaser Indemnified Parties and the Sellers to make claims for
indemnification or reimbursement based upon any covenant to be performed or
complied with after the Closing Date will survive in accordance with its terms.  

(b)           If
an Indemnified Party delivers to an Indemnifying Party, before expiration of a
representation or warranty, either a Claim Notice based upon a breach of any
such representation or warranty, or a notice that, as a result of a Third-Party
Claim, the Indemnified Party reasonably expects to incur Losses, then the
applicable representation or warranty will survive until, but only for purposes
of,  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

41  

the resolution of the
matter covered by such notice.  If the
Proceeding or written claim with respect to which such notice has been given is
definitively withdrawn or resolved in favor of the Indemnified Party, the
Indemnified Party will promptly so notify the Indemnifying Party.  

Section 7.6                 Limitations on Liability .  

(a)           Neither
the Sellers nor the Purchasers are liable under (i) Section 7.1
(other than Section 7.1(b)) or Section 7.2 (other than Section 7.2.(b)),
respectively, unless and until, with respect to an individual claim, the total
monetary value of all aggregated Losses exceeds   [***]   (the   Claim Amount  )   [***]  ; and (ii) Section 7.1(a) or
Section 7.2(a), respectively, unless and until the Claim Amount(s), when
aggregated with other Claim Amount(s), so recoverable in respect of other such
claims applicable to either Sellers, on one hand, or the Purchasers, on the
other hand, exceeds   [***]   (the   Threshold  )   [***]  .  

(b)           Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of Section 7.6(a):  

(i)            the Claim Amount,
Threshold and Cap limitations do not apply to claims under [***];  

(ii)           the Cap limitations
do not apply to claims under [***];  

(iii)          the Claim Amount,
Threshold and Cap limitations do not apply to claims under [***]; and  

(iv)          the Claim Amount,
Threshold and Cap limitations shall not apply to claims for [***].  

(c)             [***].    However, this subparagraph does not limit the
right of the Indemnified Parties to obtain indemnity from the Indemnifying
Parties to the extent that Third-Party Claims, for which the Indemnified
Parties are otherwise entitled to indemnity under this Article 7, have
been resolved by Judgment, settlement or other obligation to pay any of the
types of damages listed in the preceding sentence.  

(d)           Subject
to the other terms and limitations set forth herein (including Section 7.6(h)),
  [***]  .  

(e)           (i)            [***].  

(ii)           [***].  

(f)            The
Sellers shall not be liable in respect of any Losses under Section 7.1(a) for
any matters resulting from a change of accounting policy or practice or the
length of any accounting period adopted by the Purchasers with respect to the
Acquired Companies after the Closing, that is applicable to periods prior to
the Closing, unless such changes are adopted to comply with any requirement of
applicable law which was not being properly complied with by the Acquired
Companies on or prior to the Closing.  

(g)           The
Sellers shall not be liable in respect of any claim for Losses if and to the
extent that (i) the Losses relating thereto have been recovered under any
other claim, or (ii) such Losses are reflected as Liabilities in the
calculation of the   [***]   pursuant to Section 2.4 (regardless of whether
such calculation actually resulted in a reduction of the Purchase Price
pursuant to Section 2.4(g)).  For
purposes of clarification, Section 7.6(g)(i) shall limit the
Purchaser Indemnified Parties to a single  

[***] = Confidential Treatment requested for redacted
portion; redacted portion has been filed separately with the Commission.  

42  

recovery for each of
their respective Losses, but shall not limit the number or nature of the claims
the Purchaser Indemnified Parties may make to recover such Losses.  

(h)           Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement limits the
Liability of a party to another party for fraud or willful misconduct committed
by such party.  

Section 7.7                 Satisfaction
of Indemnification Claims Against Sellers .  

(a)             [***].    For the avoidance of doubt (including for purposes of Section 7.5),
this Section 7.7 controls only the means by which indemnification claims
will be satisfied by the Sellers, and does not affect any Purchaser Indemnified
Party s right to bring an indemnification claim, and provide a Claim Notice, at
any time otherwise in accordance with this Article 7.  

(b)           To
the extent any such indemnification obligations of the Sellers for any Losses
exceed any remaining funds in the Escrow Fund,   [***]  .  

(c)           Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Section 7.7 or  Schedule C , if the
Purchaser Indemnified Parties have provided one or more Claim Notices prior to
the due date for payment of the Earnout Amount (if any) in accordance with the
terms of  Schedule C  (the   Scheduled Earnout Payment Date  ) and
there has not been an Indemnity Final Determination with respect to one or more
such Claim Notices prior to the Scheduled Earnout Payment Date, then only the
Released Earnout Amount (if any) will be paid to the Earnout Participants in
accordance with  Schedule C .  For
purposes of this Section 7.7, the   Released Earnout Amount   means
that portion of the Earnout Amount (if any) determined in accordance with  Schedule
C , which is in excess of the sum of (i) the aggregate amounts claimed
in all unresolved or unsatisfied Claim Notice(s) (such aggregated amounts
so claimed, together, the   Disputed Amount  ), and (ii) all Losses
that may be set off by the Purchaser Indemnified Parties against the Earnout
Amount under Section 7.7(a) and (b) above (with respect to all
Claim Notice(s) for which there has been an Indemnity Final Determination
prior to the Scheduled Earnout Date). 
The Disputed Amount (if any) will be retained by the Share Purchaser
from the Scheduled Earnout Payment Date until the applicable unresolved or
unsatisfied Claim Notice(s) are settled or resolved in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement, in which case the Disputed Amount (or any part thereof
the subject of the Claim Notice in question) shall be paid to the Earnout
Participants or used to satisfy the indemnification obligations of the Sellers,
as so settled or resolved, in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.7(a) and
(b) above.  

(d)           Other
than as set forth in this Article 7, no party shall be entitled to set off
any amount or right it may be entitled to pursuant to this Agreement against
any amount, right or obligations owned to any other party pursuant to this
Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, including any Earnout Amount owing to the
Earnout Participants under this Agreement.  

(e)           Any
indemnification amounts required to be made by the Sellers under this Article 7
shall (subject to the Purchaser Indemnified Parties  right of set off against
the Earnout Amount (if any) described in this Section 7.7) be made by wire
transfer of immediately available funds from the Sellers to an account or
accounts designated by the Purchasers.  

Section 7.8                 No
Right of Indemnification or Contribution by Seller .        No Seller has any right of indemnification or
contribution against any Acquired Company with respect to any breach by the
Sellers of any of their representations, warranties, covenants or agreements in
this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, whether by virtue of any contractual
or statutory right of indemnity or otherwise, and all claims to the contrary
are hereby waived and released.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

43  

Section 7.9                 Exercise
of Remedies by Purchaser Indemnified Parties other than the Purchaser .        No Purchaser Indemnified Party (other than
the Purchasers or any successor or assignee of the Purchasers) is entitled to
assert any indemnification claim or exercise any other remedy under this
Agreement in its capacity as a Purchaser Indemnified Party unless the
Purchasers (or any successor or assignee of the Purchasers) consents to the
assertion of the indemnification claim or the exercise of any other remedy.  

ARTICLE 8   

   GENERAL PROVISIONS   

Section 8.1                 Seller Representative .  

(a)           By virtue of their execution of this
Agreement, each Seller and each Option Holder designates and appoints [***] (the   Seller Representative  ) as
such Seller s or such Option Holder s agent and attorney-in-fact with full
power and authority to act for and on behalf of each Seller and each Option
Holder to give and receive notices and communications, to accept service of
process on behalf of the Sellers and the Option Holders pursuant to Section 7.4
and Section 8.12, to authorize and agree to adjustments to the Initial
Purchase Price under Section 2.4 and other applicable provisions of this
Agreement, to authorize payments from the Escrow Fund and the separate escrow
fund referred to in Section 5.1, to agree to, negotiate, enter into
settlements and compromises of, and comply with Judgments of courts or other
Governmental Authorities and awards of arbitrators, with respect to, any claims
by any Purchaser Indemnified Party against any Seller or Option Holder or by
any Seller or Option Holder against any Purchaser Indemnified Party, or any
other dispute between any Purchaser Indemnified Party and any Seller or Option
Holder, in each case relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement and to take all actions that are either (i) necessary or
appropriate in the judgment of the Seller Representative for the accomplishment
of the foregoing or (ii) specifically mandated by the terms of this
Agreement.  Notices or communications to
or from the Seller Representative constitute notice to or from each of the
Sellers and Option Holders for all purposes under this Agreement.  

(b)           The Seller Representative may delegate its authority as
Seller Representative to any one of the Sellers for a fixed or indeterminate
period of time upon not less than five business days  prior written notice to
the Purchaser in accordance with Section 8.2.  In the event of the death or
incapacity of the Seller Representative, a successor Seller Representative will
be elected promptly by the Sellers whose interests aggregate not less than a
majority of the Initial Purchase Price and the Sellers will so notify
the Purchaser.  Each successor Seller Representative has all
of the power, authority, rights and privileges conferred by this Agreement upon
the original Seller Representative, and the term  Seller Representative  as
used in this Agreement includes any successor Seller Representative.  

(c)             A decision, act, consent or
instruction of the Seller Representative constitutes a decision of all the
Sellers and is final, binding and conclusive upon the Sellers, and the
Purchasers and any Indemnified Party
may rely upon any such decision, act, consent or instruction of the Seller
Representative as being the decision, act, consent or instruction of the
Sellers.  The Purchasers are hereby
relieved from any Liability to any Person for any acts done or omissions by the
Purchasers in accordance with such decision, act, consent or instruction of the
Seller Representative.  Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the Purchasers are entitled to rely, without
inquiry, upon any document delivered by the Seller Representative as being
genuine and correct and having been duly signed or sent by the Seller
Representative.  The Purchasers will have
no liability to any Seller with respect to any portion of the Purchaser Price
the Purchasers pay to the Seller Representative in accordance with this
Agreement.  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

44  

(d)             The Seller Representative
will have no Liability to any Person for any act done or omitted under this
Agreement as the Seller Representative while acting in good faith and not in a
manner constituting gross negligence or willful misconduct, and any act done or
omitted pursuant to the advice of counsel will be conclusive evidence of such
good faith.  The Sellers will severally
indemnify and hold harmless the Seller Representative from and against any
Losses the Seller Representative may suffer as a result of any such action or
omission.  

(e)           The Seller Representative will receive no compensation for
services as the Seller Representative. 
The Sellers will reimburse, on a pro rata basis in proportion to their
respective portions of the Initial Purchase Price payable as set forth on  Schedules A 
and  B , the Seller Representative for professional fees and expenses of
any attorney, accountant or other advisors retained by the Seller
Representative and other reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
Seller Representative in connection with the performance of the Seller
Representative s duties under this Agreement.  

(f)            This appointment and grant of power and authority by the
Sellers to the Seller Representative pursuant to this Section 8.1 is
coupled with an interest, is in consideration of the mutual covenants made in
this Agreement, is irrevocable and may not be terminated by the act of any
Seller or by operation of Law, whether upon the death or incapacity of any
Seller, or by the occurrence of any other event.  

Section 8.2                 Notices .  All notices and other communications under
this Agreement must be in writing and are deemed duly delivered when (a) delivered
if delivered personally or the next business day after being sent, if sent by
nationally recognized overnight courier service (costs prepaid), (b) sent
by facsimile with confirmation of transmission by the transmitting equipment
(or, the first business day following such transmission if the date of
transmission is not a business day) or (c) received or rejected by the
addressee, if sent by certified mail, return receipt requested; in each case to
the following addresses or facsimile numbers and marked to the attention of the
individual (by name or title) designated below (or to such other address,
facsimile number or individual as a party may designate by notice to the other
parties):  

If
to the Sellers or the Seller Representative:  

Agoda
Services Co., Ltd.  

  999/9
Rama 1 Rd.  

  Offices
at Central World, 27 th  Floor  

  Patumwan,
Bangkok  

  10330
Thailand  

  Attention:  Michael Kenny  

  Fax:
+662.646.1224  

with
a copy (which will not constitute notice) to:  

Bryan
Cave LLP  

  1290
Avenue of the Americas  

  New
York, New York 10104  

  Attention:  Robert J. Rawn  

  Fax:
+1.212.541.1431  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

45  

If
to the Purchasers:  

priceline.com
Incorporated  

  800
Connecticut Avenue  

  Norwalk,
Connecticut  08654  

  Attention:  General Counsel  

  Fax:  +1.203.299.8195  

with
a copy (which will not constitute notice) to:  

Baker  
McKenzie, LLP  

  130
East Randolph Drive  

  Chicago,
Illinois  60601  

  Attention:  David J. Malliband and Christopher M. Bartoli  

  Fax:  +1.312.861.2899  

Section 8.3                 Amendment .  This Agreement may not be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified except in a written document signed by each
party to be bound by the amendment and that identifies itself as an amendment
to this Agreement.  Any amendment of this
Agreement signed by the Sellers representing a majority of the outstanding
Shares immediately prior to Closing (such calculation of outstanding Shares to
assume the effect of conversion of the Convertible Debt and exercise of the
Parity Option) is binding upon and effective against each Seller regardless of
whether or not such Seller has in fact signed such amendment.  

Section 8.4                 Waiver and Remedies .    The rights and remedies of the parties to
this Agreement are cumulative and not alternative.  Neither any failure nor any delay by any
party in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Agreement or any
of the documents referred to in this Agreement will operate as a waiver of such
right, power or privilege, and no single or partial exercise of any such right,
power or privilege will preclude any other or further exercise of such right,
power or privilege or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege.  To the maximum extent permitted by applicable
law, (a) no claim or right arising out of this Agreement or any of the
documents referred to in this Agreement can be discharged by one party, in
whole or in part, by a waiver or renunciation of the claim or right unless in a
written document signed by the other party, (b) no waiver that may be
given by a party will be applicable except in the specific instance for which
it is given, and (c) no notice to or demand on one party will be deemed to
be a waiver of any obligation of that party or of the right of the party giving
such notice or demand to take further action without notice or demand as
provided in this Agreement or the documents referred to in this Agreement.  

Section 8.5                 Entire Agreement .  This Agreement (including the Schedules and
Exhibits hereto and the documents and instruments referred to in this Agreement
that are to be delivered at the Closing) constitutes the entire agreement among
the parties and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or
representations by or among the parties, or any of them, written or oral, with
respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.  

Section 8.6                 Assignment and Successors .  This Agreement binds and benefits the parties
and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and permitted
assigns, except that no Seller may assign any rights under this Agreement
without the prior written consent of the Purchasers.  No party may delegate any performance of its
obligations under this Agreement. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Purchasers may assign this Agreement
and their rights and benefits hereunder and may delegate its duties hereunder
to one or more of their respective Affiliates;  provided , that all of the
following conditions are met:  (1) such
Affiliate or Affiliates will assume all obligations and liabilities so
assigned;  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

46  

and
(2) each of Priceline US and the Share Purchaser (or the Share Purchaser s
successors) remains fully responsible for the performance of the obligations
hereunder.  Nothing expressed or referred
to in this Agreement will be construed to give any Person, other than the
parties to this Agreement, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under
or with respect to this Agreement or any provision of this Agreement except
such rights as may inure to a successor or permitted assignee under this Section 8.6.  

Section 8.7                 Severability .  Any provision of this Agreement that is
prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction,
be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without
invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or
unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render
unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  To the extent permitted by Law, each party to
this Agreement hereby waives any provision of law that renders any such
provision prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.  

Section 8.8                 Exhibits and Schedules .  The Exhibits and Schedules to this Agreement
are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Agreement.  The Seller Disclosure Schedule and the
Purchaser Disclosure Schedule are arranged in sections and paragraphs
corresponding to the numbered and lettered sections and paragraphs of Article 3
and Article 4, as applicable.  The
disclosure in any section or paragraph of the Seller Disclosure Schedule or the
Purchaser Disclosure Schedule qualifies other sections and paragraphs in this
Agreement only to the extent it is reasonably apparent that such disclosure is
applicable to such other sections and paragraphs.  The listing or inclusion of a copy of a
document or other item is not adequate to disclose an exception to any
representation or warranty in this Agreement unless the representation or
warranty relates to the existence of the document or item itself.  

Section 8.9                 Interpretation .  The language used in this Agreement is the
language chosen by the parties to express their mutual intent, and no provision
of this Agreement will be interpreted for or against any party because that
party or its attorney drafted the provision. 
The parties have had adequate opportunity to receive independent legal
advice with respect to the advisability of executing this Agreement, to make
such investigation of the facts pertaining to this Agreement and of all matters
to which this Agreement refers as he, she or it deems necessary, and to read
this Agreement and understand its contents and the parties  respective rights
and obligations hereunder.  

Section 8.10               Governing Law .  Unless any Exhibit or Schedule specifies
a different choice of law, the internal laws of the State of New York (without
giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether
of the State of New York or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the
application of laws of any other jurisdiction) 
 govern all matters arising out of or relating to this Agreement and
its Exhibits and Schedules and all of the transactions it contemplates,
including its validity, interpretation, construction, performance and
enforcement and any disputes or controversies arising therefrom.  

Section 8.11               Specific Performance .  The parties agree that irreparable damage
would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not
performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached.  The parties accordingly agree that, in
addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity,
the parties are entitled to injunctive relief to prevent breaches of this
Agreement and otherwise to enforce specifically the provisions of this
Agreement.  Each party expressly waives
any requirement that any other party obtain any bond or provide any indemnity
in connection with any action seeking injunctive relief or specific enforcement
of the provisions of this Agreement.  

Section 8.12               Jurisdiction and Service of
Process .  Any action or proceeding
arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement must be brought in the courts of the State of New York,
County of New York, or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

47  

United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York.  Each of the parties knowingly, voluntarily
and irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of each such court in any
such action or proceeding and waives any objection it may now or hereafter have
to venue or to convenience of forum.  Any
party to this Agreement may make service on another party by sending or
delivering a copy of the process to the party to be served at the address and
in the manner provided for the giving of notices in Section 8.2.  Nothing in this Section 8.12, however,
affects the right of any party to serve legal process in any other manner
permitted by law.  

Section 8.13               Waiver of Jury Trial .   EACH OF THE PARTIES
KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED
BY LAW, ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM
(WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO
THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT OR THE
ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT IN NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION,
PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT OF THIS AGREEMENT.   

Section 8.14               Counterparts .  The parties may execute this Agreement in
multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the
party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement.  This Agreement is effective upon delivery of
one executed counterpart from each party to the other parties.  The signatures of all parties need not appear
on the same counterpart.  The delivery of
signed counterparts by facsimile or email transmission that includes a copy   of the sending
party s signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in
person.  

[Signature page follows.]  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

48  

The parties have executed
and delivered this Agreement as of the date indicated in the first sentence of
this Agreement.  

PRICELINE.COM
  MAURITIUS CO. LTD   

PRICELINE.COM,
  INCORPORATED   

By:  

/s/
  Glenn D. Fogel  

By:  

/s/
  Robert J. Mylod, Jr.  

Name: Glenn D. Fogel  

Name: Robert J. Mylod, Jr.  

Title: Director  

Title: Chief Financial
  Officer  

/s/
  Michael Kenny  

/s/
  Robert Rosenstein  

Michael
  Kenny, in his individual      capacity  

Robert
  Rosenstein, in his individual      capacity  

/s/
  James Thomson-Glover  

/s/
  Joost Doevelaar  

James
  Thomson-Glover, in his individual capacity  

Joost
  Doevelaar, in his individual capacity  

/s/
  Wilfred Fan  

/s/
  Alan Platt  

Wilfred
  Fan, in his individual capacity  

Alan
  Platt, in his individual capacity  

/s/
  Ravina Sachdev  

/s/
  Nawee Sribhadung  

Ravina
  Sachdev, in her individual      capacity  

Nawee
  Sribhadung, in his individual capacity  

/s/
  Arjan Van der Meer  

/s/
  Andreas Weigend  

Arjan
  Van der Meer, in his individual capacity  

Andreas
  Weigend, in his individual      capacity  

/s/
  James Minutello  

/s/
  Mark Gross  

James
  Minutello, in his individual capacity  

Mark
  Gross, in his individual capacity  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

49  

/s/
  Nathan Maltz  

Nathan
  Maltz, in his individual capacity  

ACCEPTANCE AND AGREEMENT OF
SELLER REPRESENTATIVE   

The undersigned, being the
Seller Representative appointed in Section 8.1 of the foregoing Agreement,
agrees to serve as the Seller Representative and to be bound by the terms of
the Agreement pertaining to that role.  

Date:  

[***]  

[***] = Confidential
Treatment requested for redacted portion; redacted portion has been filed
separately with the Commission.  

50  

</EX-10.69>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 a08-2574_1ex12d1.htm
 EX-12.1

Exhibit 12.1   

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

(in thousands)  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21>
 4
 a08-2574_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES   

   AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2007   

Name   

Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation   

Percent ownership  
  if less than 100%   

1.  

Priceline.com
  Europe Holdco, Inc.  

Delaware  

2.  

Priceline.com
  Holdco U.K. Limited  

United
  Kingdom  

3.  

priceline.com
  International Ltd.  

United
  Kingdom  

96.7%  

6.  

Booking.com
  Limited  

United
  Kingdom  

96.7%  

7.  

Booking.com
  B.V.  

The
  Netherlands  

96.7%  

8.  

Agoda
  Company Ltd.  

Mauritius  

9.  

AGIP
  LLC  

Delaware  

10.  

Lowestfare.com
  LLC  

Delaware  

11.  

Travelweb
  LLC  

Delaware  

12.  

AllPrice
  Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a08-2574_1ex23d1.htm
 EX-23.1

Exhibit 23.1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements Nos.
333-122414, 333-65054, 333-55578, 333-83233 on form S-8 and Nos. 333-119274,
333-109929, 333-115128, 333-139590 and 333-139109 on form S-3 of our report
dated March 2, 2008, relating to the financial statements of priceline.com
Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) (which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the
Company s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  and includes an
explanatory paragraph relating to the restatement discussed in Note 21 to
the consolidated financial statements) and the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  

Stamford, Connecticut  

March 2, 2008  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a08-2574_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31.1

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATIONS   

I, Jeffery H. Boyd, certify that:   

1.                                          I
have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated
(the  Registrant ) for the year ended December 31, 2007; 

2.                                          Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the Registrant and
we have: 

a.                  designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b.                 designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c.                  evaluated
the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d.                 disclosed
in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a.                  all significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b.                 any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated:
  March 3, 2008  

/s/
  Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery
  H. Boyd  

Title:  

President  
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a08-2574_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31.2

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATIONS   

I, Robert J. Mylod Jr., certify that:   

1.                                          I
have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated
(the  Registrant ) for the year ended December 31, 2007; 

2.                                          Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we
have: 

a.                  designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b.                 designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c.                  evaluated
the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d.                 disclosed
in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a.                  all significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b.                 any fraud, whether
or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Dated:
  March 3, 2008  

/s/
  Robert J. Mylod Jr.  

Name:  

Robert
  J. Mylod Jr.  

Title:  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a08-2574_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32.1

Exhibit 32.1   

Certification   

   Pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

   (Subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code)   

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the 12 months ended December 31, 2007 
 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements
of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

Dated:
  March 3, 2008  

/s/
  Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery
  H. Boyd  

Title:  

President  
  Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a
separate disclosure document.  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 a08-2574_1ex32d2.htm
 EX-32.2

Exhibit 32.2   

Certification   

   Pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

   (Subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code)   

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the 12 months ended December 31, 2007 
 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements
of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

Dated:
  March 3, 2008  

/s/
  Robert J. Mylod Jr.  

Name:  

Robert
  J. Mylod Jr.  

Title:  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a
separate disclosure document.  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

