<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090220_10-K_edgar_data_1075531_0001104659-09-011154_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3486549</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>672506</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>37668</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2037355</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>71</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-09-011154.hdr.sgml : 20090220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090220160529
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-09-011154
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PRICELINE COM INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001075531
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				061528493
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25581
		FILM NUMBER:		09625213

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 CONNECTICUT AVE
		CITY:			NORWALK
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06854
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2037053000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WNyGI/GrPsyuZPViFuNBw449n/uhb6hXfF18ZbBln/UM3Kw99pE0mxK6FQriUJ7f
 mOL/6EDri22YPGt4RqY4UQ==

 0001104659-09-011154.txt : 20090220

10-K
 1
 a09-1364_110k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents   

UNITED
STATES   

   SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)   

   OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the fiscal year ended: December 31,
2008   

Commission File No.: 0-25581   

priceline.com
Incorporated   

  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)  

Delaware   
    (State or other Jurisdiction of
  Incorporation or 
  Organization)  

06-1528493   
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

800 Connecticut Avenue   
     Norwalk, Connecticut   
    (Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

06854   
    (Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area
code:  (203) 299-8000   

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:  

Title of Each Class:   

Name of Each Exchange on which Registered:   

Common Stock, par value $0.008 per share  

The NASDAQ Global Select Market  

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.   

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes   x  No  o  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes   o   No  x  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes     x    
No    o  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.      o  

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated
filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act (Check one):  

Large
  accelerated filer   x  

Accelerated
  filer   o  

Non-accelerated
  filer   o  

Smaller
  reporting company   o  

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes     o     No    x  

The aggregate market value of
common stock held by non-affiliates of priceline.com as of June 30, 2008
was approximately $2.7 billion based upon the closing price reported for such
date on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. 
For purposes of this disclosure, shares of common stock held by
executive officers and directors of priceline.com on June 30, 2008 have
been excluded because such persons may be deemed to be affiliates of
priceline.com.  This determination of
affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other
purposes.  

The number of outstanding
shares of priceline.com s common stock was 40,980,720 as of February 13,
2009.  

Table
of Contents   

DOCUMENTS INC  ORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

The
information required by Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
to the extent not set forth in this Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by
reference from priceline.com s definitive proxy statement relating to the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held on June 3, 2009, to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of
priceline.com s fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.  

priceline.com Incorporated
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Index  

Page No.   

PART I   

Special Note Regarding Forward Looking
  Statements   

1  

Item 1.   

Business   

1  

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

14  

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   

32  

Item 2.   

Properties   

32  

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   

33  

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
  Holders   

44  

PART II   

Item 5.    

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
  Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

45  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

48  

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
  Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

49  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
  About Market Risk   

75  

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

76  

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with
  Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

76  

Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures   

76  

Item 9B.   

Other Information   

77  

PART III   

Item 10.   

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
  Governance   

78  

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   

78  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
  Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

78  

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related
  Transactions, and Director Independence   

78  

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

78  

PART IV   

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

79  

Signatures   

83  

Consolidated
  Financial Statements   

85  

Table
of Contents   

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements      

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the
documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks,
uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including the Risk
Factors identified in Item 1A of this Annual Report; therefore, actual results
may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such
forward-looking statements.   

Expressions of future goals,
expectations and similar expressions including, without limitation,  may, 
 will,   should,   could,   expects,   does not currently expect,   plans, 
 anticipates,   intends,   believes,   estimates,   predicts,   potential, 
 targets,  or  continue,  reflecting something other than historical fact are
intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could
differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for
various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in
Item 1A,  Risk Factors.   Unless required
by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or
furnish from time to time with the SEC, particularly our quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.  

PART I     

Item 1.  Business      

General   

We are a
leading global online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of
travel services, including hotel rooms, car rentals, airline tickets, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. 
Internationally, we offer our customers hotel room reservations in over
75 countries and 27 languages. In the United States, we offer our customers a
unique choice: the ability to purchase travel services in a traditional,
price-disclosed manner or the opportunity to use our unique  Name Your Own Price      service, which allows our customers to make
offers for travel services at discounted prices. 

We launched
our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and
have since expanded our operations to include, among others, the brands
Booking.com, Active Hotels and Agoda. 
Our principal goal is to be the leading worldwide online hotel
reservation service.  At present, we
derive substantially all of our revenues from the following sources:  

Transaction
revenues from our  Name Your Own Price     hotel room, rental car and airline ticket
services, as well as our vacation packages service; 

Commissions
earned from the sale of price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental cars, cruises and
other travel services; 

Customer
processing fees charged in connection with the sale of both  Name Your Own Price     and price-disclosed hotel rooms and  Name Your Own Price     airline tickets and rental car services.  We eliminated processing fees for our
price-disclosed airline ticket service in June 2007; 

Transaction
revenue from our price-disclosed  merchant  hotel room service; 

Global
distribution system ( GDS ) reservation booking fees related to both our  Name Your Own Price     airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and 

Other
revenues derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. 

1  

Table
of Contents   

For the year
ended December 31, 2008, we had revenues of approximately $1.9 billion
comprised of  merchant  revenue,  agency  revenue and  other  revenue.   Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the
merchant of record and, among other things, select suppliers and determine the
price we will accept from the customer. 
Merchant revenues, which represented the substantial majority of our total
revenues in 2008, consisted of: (1) transaction
revenues representing the selling price of  Name
Your Own Price     hotel
rooms, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages
services; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a
customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with the hotel
rooms provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service;
(3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of both  Name Your Own Price     and price-disclosed
hotel rooms and  Name Your Own Price     airline tickets and rental car services; and
(4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to
certain of the services listed above. 
Agency revenues are generally derived from travel related transactions
where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services
are determined by third parties. Agency revenues consisted primarily of:
(1) travel commissions and (2) GDS reservation booking fees related
to certain of the services listed above. 
Other revenues are derived
primarily from advertising on our websites. 

Priceline.com
was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted
into a Delaware corporation in July 1998. 
Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the
symbol  PCLN.   Our principal executive
offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.  

The priceline.com Business
Model   

We offer customers the ability  to make hotel reservations on a worldwide
basis primarily under the Booking.com and Agoda brands internationally and
primarily under the priceline.com brand in the United States.  In the United States, we also offer customers
the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets,
rental car days, vacations packages, destination services and cruises, through
both a traditional, price-disclosed  retail  manner, and through our
proprietary demand-collection system known as  Name Your Own Price    .  These services are made
available over the Internet through websites that we own or control, and are
provided by major travel suppliers, including more than 70,000 hotel properties
worldwide.  We believe that the
combination of our retail price-disclosed model and our  Name Your Own Price     model allows us to provide a
broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with
diverse streams of revenue. 

International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Services  .  We
offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel service in Europe and Asia through our
international operations, which consist primarily of Booking.com B.V., one of Europe s leading Internet hotel reservation
services, with more than twenty offices worldwide, Booking.com Limited,
a Cambridge, England-based Internet hotel reservation distributor (together with Booking.com B.V.,
 Booking.com ), and priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly
known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an
Internet hotel distributor with operations in Singapore and Thailand
( Agoda ).  We work with over 60,000
chain-owned and independently owned hotels offering hotel reservations on
various websites and in multiple languages.  For geographic related
information, see Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our
international business   the significant majority of which is currently
generated by our European operations    represented approximately 58.4% of our gross bookings (an operating and
statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes
and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers) in the year ended
December 31, 2008, and contributed more than two-thirds of our
consolidated operating income during that period.  Given that our international business is
primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, revenue earned in connection
with the reservation of hotel room nights has come to represent the substantial
majority of our gross profit. 

2  

Table
of Contents   

United States: Retail Travel Services  .  In
the United States, we offer customers the ability to purchase price-disclosed
hotel rooms, rental car days, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination
services and cruises at retail prices. 
In these transactions, the customer typically selects airline flights,
hotel reservations, rental car or other travel itineraries from an array of
results produced in response to the customer s request.  These results include the identity of the
travel supplier, the exact price
of the itinerary, and other details relating to the itineraries.  In some circumstances, the customer pays us
at the time of reservation, and in other circumstances, the customer pays the
travel supplier directly at the time of travel. 

United States: Name Your Own Price       Travel Services .  We have developed a unique pricing system
known as a  demand collection system  that uses the information sharing and
communications power of the Internet to create a different way of pricing
services.  We believe our services have
created a balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to accept
trade-offs in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to generate
incremental revenue by selling their services at below retail prices, provided
that they can do so without disrupting their existing distribution channels or
retail pricing structures.  Our demand
collection system allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to
pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which
participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to
the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer s offer and decide
whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the
consumer.  For most of these
transactions, we have discretion in supplier selection and are the merchant of
record in the transaction.  Consumers
agree to hold their offers open for a specified period of time to enable us to
determine whether we can or want to accept the offer.  Once fulfilled, offers generally cannot be
canceled   thereby making such purchases generally non-refundable.  This system uses the flexibility of buyers to
enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess
capacity.  We believe that our demand
collection system addresses limitations inherent in traditional seller-driven
pricing mechanisms in a manner that offers substantial benefits to both buyers
and sellers.  We believe that the
principal advantages of our system include the following: 

Cost Savings .  Our  Name
Your Own Price     demand collection
system allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility
about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices that are
generally lower than those that can be obtained at that time through
traditional retail distribution channels. 

Incremental Revenue for Sellers .  Sellers use our  Name Your Own Price     demand collection system as a revenue
management tool to generate incremental revenue without disrupting their
existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We require consumers to be flexible with
respect to brands and service features. 
As a result, our  Name Your Own Price     system does not reveal sellers  brands to
customers prior to the consummation of a transaction, thereby protecting their
brand integrity.  This shielding of brand
identity and price enables sellers to sell services at discounted prices
without cannibalizing their own retail sales by publicly announcing discount
prices and without competing against their own distributors. 

Proprietary Seller Networks .  We have assembled proprietary networks of
industry leading sellers that represent high quality brands.  By establishing attractive networks of seller
participants with reputations for quality, scale and national presence, we
believe that we foster increased participation by both buyers and sellers. 

We often refer to services offered through our  Name Your Own Price      service as  opaque  services because all
aspects of the travel service are not visible to the consumer before making an
offer. 

3  

Table of Contents    

The priceline.com Strategy   

The
online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth
as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive
online channels.  Priceline.com has been
a leader in the hotel reservation market internationally and in the deep
discount segment of this market in the United States.  Our strategy is to continue to participate
broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.  

Become the Leading Worldwide
Online Hotel Reservation Service .  The size of the travel market
outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the
United States.  Historically, Internet
penetration rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have
trailed those of the United States. 
However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for
purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent
international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are
expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our
revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2008,
our international business   the significant majority of which is currently
generated by Booking.com   represented approximately 58.4% of our gross
bookings, and contributed more than two-thirds of our consolidated operating
income during that period.  We expect
that our international operations will represent a growing percentage of our
total gross bookings and operating income (before taking into account the
offsetting impacts of foreign exchange, if any) over the long term.  Because of what we believe to be superior
growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel, we
intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues
represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel
demand. 

We
believe that the positioning of our Booking.com hotel reservation service gives
us a foothold into a broader international market.  We intend to use Agoda, the online hotel
distributor with operations in Singapore and Thailand, which we acquired in
2007, to further develop our operations throughout Asia, where Internet
penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing at a substantially greater pace
than in the United States over the last several years.  We have begun, and intend to continue,
development of the means to share hotel availability among our brands, which we
believe will allow us to monetize demand across international markets.  In addition, from time to time we explore
strategic transactions and acquisitions that, among other things, allow us to
provide our services to new markets.  We
believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel supply and
customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and
Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our service
internationally and become the leading worldwide online hotel reservation
service.  

Continue to be One of the
Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious Leisure
Travelers .  Our  Name
Your Own Price     demand collection system in the
United States allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling
way.  Buyers effectively trade off
flexibility about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices
that are lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional
retail distribution channels.  We have
expended significant resources to allow us to introduce price-disclosed retail
services in the United States to our consumers to compliment the  Name Your Own Price     service. 
We believe that by offering a  one-stop-shopping  solution to our
customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are
prepared to accept the unique restrictions of our  Name Your Own Price     service in exchange for receiving significant
savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less
price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their
travel itinerary prior to purchasing.  In
June 2007, we eliminated booking fees on price-disclosed retail  

4  

Table of Contents   

airline
tickets as part of our strategy to provide value to our customers, and in 2008,
we reduced price-disclosed hotel booking fees and eliminated hotel change fees.  

We
intend to enhance our service offerings continually, particularly our retail
offerings, by adding competitive functionality, adding competitive content at
competitive pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our
website as well as  cross-sell  opportunities (for example, offering a hotel
customer the opportunity to add a rental car reservation to the transaction) to
maximize customer conversion.  

Competitive functionality:  We continue to expend significant resources
to remain competitive in terms of the features and functionality we offer our
customers.  For example, since launching
our domestic retail air service, we added the ability to search for flexible
dates or alternative airports, book one-way and multi-destination itineraries
and easily make modifications to search criteria.  In addition, we offer a personal experience,
where individualized content, such as special deals or favorite hotels, can be
presented based upon preferences set by the customer or a customer s previous
activity on one of our sites. 

Competitive selection and
pricing:  We believe that
having a wide selection of travel options at competitive pricing is critical to
our success.  For example, we have
eliminated booking fees on price-disclosed retail airline tickets, reduced
price-disclosed hotel booking fees and eliminated hotel change fees.  We have also added JetBlue fares to our
retail price-disclosed airline ticket service and added over 10,000 additional
hotels to our domestic vacation package service. In addition, we have renewed
or entered into new agreements with several of our major airline and hotel
suppliers, which we believe improved our access to a better selection of travel
alternatives and pricing. 

Content and merchandising:  As part of our evolution to a  one-stop-shopping 
website, we have added thousands of pages of content to allow customers to
research destinations and hotel properties before booking a reservation.  We offer property descriptions, maps, images,
and user reviews whereby our customers can benefit from the experiences and
opinions of other customers.  In the
United States, we offer  PriceBreakers sm , 
which is a presentation of selected travel itineraries at discounted prices
that is updated daily.  In 2008, we
introduced Price Drop Alerts, whereby we monitor airfares daily and notify
customers of fare reductions via email. 
We also created a loyalty program that awards our customers for using
www.priceline.com and encourages them to try new priceline.com services.  We intend to continue to improve our content
and merchandising with more comprehensive descriptions, more and higher quality
images, and more user reviews, which we believe will improve conversion of
users shopping on our website. 

Cross-sell opportunities : We also cross-sell different travel
components to maximize the revenue we generate from each customer in the United
States.  We have developed and
implemented functionality that allows customers to  add-on  travel components
to their selection, both during the shopping experience and at time of
purchase.  For example, customers can add
a rental car reservation to their air or hotel reservation, or a hotel
reservation to their air reservation. 
Customers can also add destination related services such as shuttles,
tours and activities.  Additionally, we
cross-sell opaque services on our retail path and retail services on our opaque
path.  For example, an unsuccessful opaque
air customer may be offered a price-disclosed alternative, while a retail hotel
shopper may be offered the  Name Your Own
Price       alternative for greater savings.  In addition, personalized cross-sell offers
can appear on the priceline.com homepage when a customer has an upcoming
trip.  We intend to further enhance these
cross-sell opportunities across all of our services. 

5  

Table of Contents   

We
strive to be the preferred discount distribution channel in the United States
for airlines, hotels and rental car companies. 
Our  Name Your Own Price      service protects supplier brand and published
pricing and our packages and other merchandising provide access to the brand
neutral leisure traveler at attractive distribution costs. 

Service Offerings   International   

Retail Hotels.       We offer a retail,
price-disclosed hotel service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and
Agoda brands.  We   work with over 60,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels
offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 27 languages.  Hotels participate in Booking.com, which
operates under an agency model, and Agoda, which operates primarily under a
merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranet.  Hotels may also participate in Agoda via
consolidator relationships.  

Service Offerings   United States   

Name Your Own Price             Hotels   .  Through our  Name
Your Own Price           hotel room reservation
service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially
all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as
well as several important real estate investment trusts and independent
property owners participate in our  Name Your
Own Price       service. 
Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with
related rules in a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not
available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount
distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may make
similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under
other arrangements.  

To
make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in
which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to check in and check out, (3) the  class  of service (1, 2, 2 , 3,
3 , 4, 5-star or  resort ), (3) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (4) the customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to
stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation
that cannot be refunded or changed.  The
target market for our  Name Your Own Price       hotel room reservation service is the leisure
travel market.  

Retail Hotels.     We also operate a price-disclosed hotel
service in the United States that enables our customers to   select the exact
hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to
purchase.  

Name Your Own Price             Rental Cars   .  Our  Name
Your Own Price       rental car service is currently available in
substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car
companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car
program.  Consumers can access our
website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car
they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price
they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine
whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer s offer is accepted, we will
immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer s credit card and
notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental
car.  

Retail Rental Cars.     We also offer a price-disclosed rental car
service   on www.priceline.com that enables our customers   in the United
States   to choose between price-disclosed or  Name
Your Own Price       rental cars.  Our price-disclosed rental car service
operates under the  agency  model,   under which we earn a
commission upon rental car return, and   accommodates one-way and
off-airport reservations  .    As with our
retail airline ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations
booked in a retail  

6  

Table
of Contents   

manner do not have the restrictions associated with   our    Name
Your Own Price       service. 
Customers can select the exact car they want to book and the price of
the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.  

With
respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the
combination of our  Name Your Own Price         model and the retail model
allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers,
while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.  

Name Your Own Price             Airline
Tickets   .  There are a total of 10
domestic airlines and 22 international airlines participating in our  Name Your Own Price           airline ticket service.  

Our
 Name Your Own Price       airline ticket service operates in a manner
similar to our  Name Your Own Price       hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the
origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (4) the customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree
to:  

fly on any one
of our participating airline partners; 

leave at any
time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of
departure and return; 

purchase only
round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and
return; 

accept at least
one stop or connection; 

receive no
frequent flier miles or upgrades; and 

accept tickets
that cannot be refunded or changed. 

If
a customer s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably
close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy
the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing
certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being
accepted.  For example, in some cases we
disclose to the customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would
increase the chances of his or her offer being accepted.  In other cases, we inform the customer that
increasing his or her offer by a certain amount would increase the chances of
it being accepted.  We may also offer a
customer the opportunity to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.  

Retail Airline Tickets.     We also offer   our customers in the United
States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and
with disclosed itineraries.  The airline
sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for
the transaction.  These airline tickets
do not have the restrictions associated with our    Name Your
Own Price       service.  For example, in addition to having fully
disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable and
cancellable for a fee.  In June 2007,
we eliminated booking fees we had previously charged on the sale of published
price retail airline tickets.  

Vacation Packages   .  Our vacation package service allows consumers
  in the United States   to purchase packages consisting of airfare,
hotel, rental car and destination service components.  Consumers can select the exact hotel or
resort that they want to reserve, and then select either a retail airline
ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air component of their package.  Additionally, consumers can add destination
related services such as parking, tours, shuttles, and activities.  Vacation packages are sold at disclosed
prices, although consumers cannot determine the exact price of the individual
components on our website.  

7  

Table of Contents   

Destination Services   .  We currently offer customers   in the United
States   the opportunity to purchase destination services such as parking, event
tickets, ground transfers, tours and other services available at their travel
destinations.  This service is offered to
consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel and vacation
reservation, and also as a standalone service.  

Cruises   .  We
also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through World Travel Holdings, Inc.,
formerly known as National Leisure Group, Inc. ( WTH ), an agent
representing major cruise lines.  Our
cruise service allows consumers   in the United States   to search for
and compare cruise pricing and availability information from 19 cruise lines,
and to purchase cruises online or through a call center by selecting from our
published offerings and prices.  We
receive commissions from WTH on successful cruise bookings.  

Travel Insurance   .  We offer our air, hotel, vacation package and
rental car customers   in the United States   an optional travel insurance
package that provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip
interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage,
property and travel documents.  The
travel insurance is provided by member companies of American International
Group, Inc. ( AIG ).  We receive a
percentage of the premium from AIG member companies for every optional
insurance package purchased by our customers.  

While
we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we
may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance
the travel experience of our customers.  

Financial Services    

We offer financial services through Priceline Mortgage Company LLC,
d/b/a pricelinemortgage.com, of which we own 49% and hold two of five seats on
the board of managers.  Pursuant to an intellectual property license from
us, pricelinemortgage.com utilizes the priceline.com  Name Your Own Price       business model.  Although results from pricelinemortgage.com
have been impacted by external housing and credit market conditions, our
proportionate share of its losses has not been significant.  Pricelinemortgage.com is controlled by EverBank,
a federally chartered savings association supervised by the Office of Thrift
Supervision, and a wholly owned subsidiary of EverBank Financial Corp. 
Pricelinemortgage.com has access to the management resources and expertise of
EverBank, one of the nation s largest privately held banking and mortgage
firms. EverBank Financial Corp. provides management services to
pricelinemortgage.com, including the procurement of personnel and office space
and assistance in obtaining regulatory approvals.  Pricelinemortgage.com
is operating in all 50 states.  Robert J. Mylod, our Vice Chairman and
Head of Worldwide Strategy and Planning, is a director of, and an investor in,
EverBank Financial Corp., the parent company of EverBank.  Mr. Mylod s
investment represents less than 1/10 of one percent of EverBank Financial
Corp. s outstanding common stock.  

Under the terms of an agreement with EverBank Financial Corp.,
pricelinemortgage.com allows consumers to access attractive financial services
including, but not limited to, mortgages, home equity loans, and banking
service.  We record our proportionate
share of the results of pricelinemortgage.com as equity in income (loss) of
investees and minority interests.  

Marketing and Brand
Awareness   

Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda have established widely used and
recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion
campaigns.  During 2008, our total online
advertising expenses were approximately $270.7 million, a substantial portion
of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing.  We also invested
approximately $38.0 million in priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the
United States.  We intend  

8  

Table
of Contents   

to continue a marketing strategy to promote brand awareness and the
concept that consumers can save money using our services.  Underlying our marketing strategy is our
belief that our target market is all consumers, not just Internet-savvy
consumers.  We intend to continue to
promote the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands aggressively throughout
2009.  

As
our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our
results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our
advertising expense.  Specifically,
because our international operations utilize Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing, principally through the purchase of travel-related
keywords, as principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our
online advertising expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of
those companies, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2009.  

Competition   

We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we
offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and
current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In
addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete have
significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of
which has access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than
we do.  

We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with
respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these
competitors include, but are not limited to:  

Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are
owned by Expedia, and Venere, an Italian-based agency hotel reservation service
provider that was acquired by Expedia in the third quarter of 2008; Travelocity
and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com,
Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by
Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers,
octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, Ctrip, Rakuten
and Wotif;  

travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car
companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive
business;  

large online portal and search companies, such as AOL (including AOL
Travel), Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel) and Google;  

traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;  

online travel search sites such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com
and SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as  meta-search  sites) and travel
research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo
and Cheapflights.com; and  

operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo,
Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.  

Many airline, hotel and rental
car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing
on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book
airline reservations through an online channel other than their own
website.  Furthermore, several low cost
airlines, which are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute
their tickets exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites
typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some  

9  

Table of Contents   

instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares,
bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive
to consumers than models like ours.  

We potentially face
competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have
expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic,
including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us
either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or
off-line companies.  We also compete with
 meta-search  companies, which are companies that leverage their search
technology to aggregate travel search results across supplier, travel agent and
other websites.  Some established search
engine companies as well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel
marketplace in this manner.  If Google,
Yahoo! or other portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search
engines, it could result in more competition from supplier websites and higher
customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours.  Competition from these and other sources
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:  

marketing and promotional campaigns;  

attracting traffic to their websites;  

attracting and retaining key employees;  

securing vendors and supply; and  

website and systems development.  

Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss
of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. See   Risk Factors   Intense competition could reduce our market share and
harm our financial performance .   

Operations and Technology   

Our business is supported by
a systems platform, which was designed with an emphasis on scalability,
performance and reliability.  The
software platform and architecture are built on server-side Java, C++, ASP and
Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle and MySQL relational database
systems.  This internal platform was
designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide
connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as
airline and hotel room reservation systems and financial service providers, as
well as individual suppliers, such as individual hotels.  Our Internet servers utilize digital certificates
to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate.  

The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our
international operations are primarily hosted at Equinix Europe Ltd., in
London, England, and Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus, in the
Netherlands. Each location has backup generators and infrastructure typical of
hosted data centers.  

10  

Table
of Contents   

Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are
hosted at SAVVIS in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication
links, as well as 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple
back-up systems in Jersey City.  We also
maintain a second web hosting facility at AT T in New York City.  Our network operations center monitors both
web hosting facilities and is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut
headquarters.  All three facilities have
a continuous power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS were unable, for any reason, to
support our primary web hosting facility, we would need to activate our
secondary site at AT T.  

We out-source most of our domestic call center and customer service
functions, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer
capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.  

Intellectual Property   

We currently hold twenty issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207;
5,897,620; 6,085,169; 6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090;
6,356,878; 6,418,415; 6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503;
7,203,660; 7,188,176; 7,333,941; 7,386,508; 7,472,074 and over twenty pending
United States and foreign patent applications. 
All of our issued United States patents expire between September 4,
2016 and March 22, 2025.  We file
additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.  

While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent
applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:  

a third party
will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing
features of our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use
those features; 

our operations
do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties; 

any patent can
be successfully defended against challenges by third parties; 

the pending
patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; 

competitors or
potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are
not covered by our patents or patent applications; 

because of
variations in the application of our business model to each of our services,
our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from
utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more
categories; 

new prior art
will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued
patent; or 

legislative or judicial
action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and validity of any of
our patent rights. 

There
has been discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of
so-called  business method  patents. As a result, the United States Patent and
Trademark Office has intensified the review process applicable to such patent
applications.   Recent court decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court and
the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made the requirements for
obtaining and maintaining certain types of patent protection more
stringent.   In addition, we understand there to be renewed focus on
legislative reform efforts concerning patents in the U.S. Senate, House of   

11  

Table
of Contents   

Representatives
or both.  At this time, we cannot fully
anticipate what effect, if any, the new judicial action and the intensified
Patent Office review process or new legislation will have on our issued
patents and pending patent applications. See,   Risk Factors
  We face risks related to our intellectual property .   

We
hold the exclusive rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINE      and PRICELINE.COM      in the U.S.
as well as in many foreign countries.  We own U.S. Service Mark
Registrations Nos. 2,481,750; 2,272,659; 2,594,582 for PRICELINE, and
2,481,752; 2,594,592; and 2,481,112 for PRICELINE.COM, including all attendant
goodwill.  We also own U.S. Service Mark Registration No. 2,647,673
for NAME YOUR OWN PRICE    U.S. Service
Mark Registration No. 2,481,751 for PRICELINEMORTGAGE     , U.S. Service Mark
Registration No. 3,357,458 for PRICELINE EUROPE, and others. In
addition, through our European subsidiary Booking.com BV, we hold the
registered service mark BOOKINGS in the Netherlands (Benelux Registrations Nos.
762051 and 762054) and in France (French Registration No. 43276223, as
well as French Registration No. 43276225 for BOOKING; two European
Community ( EC ) service mark registrations for BOOKINGS (Registrations Nos.
3413846 and 3413952,) and one for ACTIVE HOTELS (EC Reg. No. 3859618).  

We
aggressively monitor, protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks,
trademarks, trade dress, domain names and trade secrets on an ongoing basis
through a combination of laws and contractual restrictions, such as
confidentiality agreements.  For example, we endeavor to register our
trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally,
currently holding over one hundred fifty service mark registrations
worldwide.  However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and
trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our
services are or may be made available online, regardless of our continuous
efforts to police and register our marks.  See,   Risk Factors  - We face risks related to our
intellectual property .   

We
currently own numerous Internet domain names in various top level domains,
particularly for purposes of deterring service mark infringement.  Domain
names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory bodies such as the World
Intellectual Property Organization.  The relationship between trademark
and unfair competition laws and domain name registration is evolving.  The
Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the Uniform Domain
Name Dispute Resolution Policy of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names
and Numbers have both significantly enhanced our ability to deter the
infringing incorporation of trademarks into domain names by third parties and
to assert our registrations against them.  We actively pursue significant
infringers as appropriate, including cybersquatters and typosquatters who
misappropriate our service marks and misspellings thereof as domain names for
commercial purposes, in order to maintain our famous marks and prevent the
dilution of their distinctiveness.  See,   Risk
Factors   We face risks related to our intellectual property .   

Governmental Regulation   

The
services we provide are subject to various federal, state and local
regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the
offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register
as a  seller of travel.   In addition,
our services may be subject to various state and local taxing regulations.  See   Risk Factors     Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes  .  

We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require
protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel transactions,
we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data, both in
the United States, Europe and Asia.  This
data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous
jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union
through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the
member states of the European Union. 
Such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of
personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the
governing jurisdiction.  

All
of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and
regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.  

12  

Table
of Contents   

We
are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online
commerce.  Presently, there are
relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due
to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is
possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet
or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as
online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content
and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights
and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws
governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual
property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing,
but any such new legislation could have significant implications on how we
conduct online business. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in
that state to do business as a foreign corporation because our service is
available in that state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do
business in a number of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain
states, or a determination that we are required to qualify in additional
states, could subject us to taxes and penalties.  See    Risk  Factors   Regulatory and legal uncertainties
could harm our business,   and 
 Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes .   

Our
European operations are subject to various foreign regulations and governing
bodies that might limit their services. They may be affected by unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade barriers in
connection with online commerce. Any failure by our European operations to
comply may have an adverse effect on our business.  

Pricelinemortgage.com is
subject to laws governing the licensing and conduct of persons providing
mortgage brokerage services. Such laws typically require certain consumer
protection disclosures and loan solicitation procedures. For example, the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act prohibits the payment and receipt of mortgage
loan referral fees, and permits persons to be compensated only for the fair
value of non-referral services. Accordingly, pricelinemortgage.com s home
financing service provides non-referral services such as website development
and advertising to a licensed mortgage broker who, in turn, provides the
back-end processing for loan referrals.  

Seasonality   

Our
 Name Your Own Price       services are non-refundable in nature, and
accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is
generated.  However, we recognize revenue
generated from our retail hotel services, including our international
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail
hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve
their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future
quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial majority
of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the
quarter in which bookings are generated. 
Therefore, as our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our
quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors.  

Employees   

As of February 1, 2009,
we employed approximately 1,780 full-time employees, of which 430 are based in
the United States and 1,350 are based in our international offices. We also
retain independent contractors to support our customer service and system
support functions.  

We
have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by
any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to
be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  

13  

Table
of Contents   

The
priceline.com Websites   

We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com,
www.priceline.com and www.agoda.com, among others.  We are not including the information
contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We
make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission .  These reports and other
information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 
Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may
be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the www.priceline.com
website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Ethics will be
disclosed on that website. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors      

The following risk factors and other
information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also
impair our business operations.  If any
of the following risks occur, our business, financial     condition, operating results
and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  

The worldwide
recession has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our
business.    

Worldwide recession is negatively
affecting the broad travel market and, as a result, our business.  For example, hotels worldwide have recently
reported significant decreases in occupancy rates and average daily rates
( ADRs ).  We believe that the positive
trends impacting our domestic and international business overshadowed these
negative influences in 2008.  However,
market conditions worsened significantly recently, with particular
deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2008 and January 2009.  Worldwide recession has weakened the
fundamental demand for our services and could also cause an increase in the
number of customers who cancel existing travel reservations with us .    

Booking.com currently distributes
hotel rooms primarily through a retail model whereby we earn a commission from
the hotel property when the customer checks out of the hotel.  This requires us to pursue collection of
commissions relating to hotel room reservations from the hotel after the
customer has completed his or her stay. 
As a result of worldwide recession, we have experienced an increase in
delinquency rates, negatively impacting our business.  Bankruptcies or insolvencies of hotel
suppliers could also have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.   

We believe the worldwide
recession and these weakening travel market trends, including, without
limitation, decreased consumer demand, further deterioration in ADRs and
increases in cancellations, had a negative impact on our business, particularly
in Europe and Asia, and will continue to have a negative impact in the near
term.  We cannot predict the magnitude or
duration of this worldwide recession, but our current limited visibility does
not suggest any near-term improvement. 
In addition, the worldwide recession has dramatically restricted the
willingness and ability of financial institutions to extend credit.  If we are not able to gain access to funds at
an acceptable cost through the credit market, we may be limited, or unable, to
pursue certain strategic alternatives such as acquisitions and share
repurchases.   

14  

Table of Contents    

Our      international     operations 
business model exposes us to certain risks that we have not traditionally
experienced in the U.S. hotel business.   

Throughout 2006, 2007 and
2008, our international operations
experienced significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings (an
operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive
of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers).  This growth rate has contributed
significantly to our growth in revenue, gross profit and earnings per
share.  We expect our international operations to experience a
decline in their growth rate in future years as the absolute level of their
gross bookings grows larger.  We expect
other factors to slow the growth rates of our international business, including, for example, worldwide recession, the recent strengthening
of the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, further declines in hotel ADRs, further
increases in cancellations, travel market conditions and the competitiveness of
the market.  A decline in our international operations  growth rate
could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share
growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price.  

In addition, our  international operations rely on various
third party distribution channels to distribute hotel room reservations.  Should one or more of such third parties
cease distribution of our international operations  reservations, or suffer deterioration in
its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or
otherwise, the business of our international operations could be negatively affected.  Similarly, a significant amount of our international business is directed to our
own websites through advertising campaigns on Internet search engines,
primarily Google, whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid
change both technically and competitively. 
We have experienced increased competition and increased costs associated
with our advertising campaigns.  If a
major search engine changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a
negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition
would be adversely affected. 

The strategy of our  international operations involves rapid
expansion into countries in Europe, including eastern Europe, Asia, North
America and South America and elsewhere, many of which have different customs,
different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different
legislation, regulatory environments and tax schemes.  For example, recent civil unrest during the peak booking season in Thailand, a key
market for our Agoda business, negatively impacted booking volumes and future
civil or political unrest would further disrupt Agoda s business.  In addition,
compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place
demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen
and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences.  If our international operations are
unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other countries, our business, results
of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 

We are dependent on the leisure travel industry and certain travel
suppliers.    

Our financial prospects are
significantly dependent upon our sale of leisure travel services.  Leisure travel, including the sale of hotel
rooms and leisure airline tickets, is dependent on personal discretionary
spending levels. As a result, sales of leisure travel services tend to decline
during general economic downturns and recessions.  Accordingly, the current worldwide recession
has led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for our services and an
increase in the number of customers who cancel existing travel reservations
with us.  In addition, unforeseen events
beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, political instability, regional
hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by
regulatory authorities, travel related accidents, travel related health
concerns and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as
hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes, also may adversely affect the leisure
travel industry and our business and results of operations. Further, work stoppages or
labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially adversely affect the
airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  

15  

Table of Contents   

During the year ended December 31,
2008,  Name Your Own Price      hotel room nights from our five largest hotel
suppliers accounted for approximately 63.2% of total  Name Your Own Price     hotel room
nights sold, and sales of airline tickets from our five largest and two largest
airline suppliers accounted for approximately 75.8% and 37.4% of total airline
tickets sold, respectively. As a result, we are currently substantially
dependent upon the continued participation of these suppliers in our system in
order to maintain and continue to grow our total gross profit. 

Our arrangements with the
hotel, airline and rental car suppliers that participate in our system   either
 Name Your Own Price      or price-disclosed service   generally do not
require them to provide any specific quantity of hotel rooms, airline tickets
or rental cars, or to make rooms, tickets or cars available for any particular
route, in any geographic area or at any particular price.  During the course of our business, we are in
continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the nature and extent of
their participation in our system. The significant reduction on the part of any
of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained
period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The
hotel industry has recently experienced a significant decrease in occupancy
rates, and we have experienced slowing demand growth, an increase in
reservation cancellation rates and declining ADRs   trends which have continued
to deteriorate and for which we do not anticipate any near-term improvement.  While lower occupancy rates have historically
resulted in hotel suppliers increasing their distribution of hotel rooms
through third-party intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for hotel
transactions changes proportionately with room price, and therefore, lower ADRs
generally have a negative effect on our hotel business and a negative effect on
our gross profit.  

We
believe the worldwide recession and
lower ADRs are largely responsible for the increase in the number of hotel
cancellations, particularly at our international operations.  Our international operations distribute hotel rooms primarily through an agency model where
reservations are generally cancellable, as opposed to merchant models operated
by us (principally in the U.S.) and our competition and through which
reservations are generally not cancellable without penalty.  As ADRs decline, customers who have existing
reservations may cancel those reservations and rebook at a lower rate, and in
times of economic stress, travelers are more likely to cancel their vacation
plans outright.  While decreasing ADRs
and a worldwide recession make it relatively more attractive for
consumers to make a cancellable agency reservation than a pre-paid reservation,
our agency business will likely have higher cancellation rates compared to companies who offer predominantly
merchant model hotel rooms.  

In addition, certain hotels
have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries
on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to
distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States.  Many hotels distribute rooms through their
own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant rate
hotel rooms sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing
the margin available to us.  While our
merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers
provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to
require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise,
it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  

With respect to our airline
suppliers, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from
full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount
fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue.  Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest,
have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party
intermediaries.  In addition, certain
airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets
through opaque channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available
price on their own website.  Certain
airlines have also significantly reduced their domestic capacity, which reduces
the number of airline tickets available to our customers.  Furthermore, we have recently observed a
sharp decline in passenger traffic and airfares across the airline industry,
and we believe the airlines are experiencing significant year-over-year
declines in yield, all of which we believe is principally due to the worldwide
recession.   Decreases in capacity and lower traveler  

16  

Table of Contents   

demand negatively impact our domestic air business, which in turn has
negative repercussions on our domestic hotel and rental car businesses, and
could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

We could be adversely
affected by changes in the airline industry, and, in many cases, we will have
no control over such changes or their timing. 
Recently, there has been an emerging prospect of domestic airline
industry consolidation, as evidenced by the recent merger between Delta Air
Lines and Northwest Airlines.  If one of
our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by,
another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or
that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may
elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than
the previous supplier.  For example, in September 2005,
US Airways and America West merged.  US
Airways was a meaningful participant in our  Name
Your Own Price      system, but America
West participated on a very limited basis. 
The resulting entity participates in our  Name Your Own Price     system, but at
much lower levels than US Airways  historical participation. 

In addition, in the event
that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares
bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy,
and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely
affected.  In the past, airline carriers
that have participated in our system and declared bankruptcy have continued to
operate while in bankruptcy.  High oil
prices place financial stress on airline carriers, and increase the risk that a
carrier may cease operations and face liquidation rather than reorganization
under the bankruptcy laws.  For example,
in April 2008, Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and
we experienced an increase in credit card charge backs from customers with
tickets on those airlines.  To the extent
major U.S. airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy or cease
operations, they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their
flights.  Our policy in such event is to
direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to
provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of  Name Your Own Price      airline tickets to our customers, however, we
could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card
charge backs from customers, which could materially adversely affect our
operations and financial results. In addition, because  Name Your Own Price     customers do
not choose their airlines, hotels or rental car companies, the bankruptcy of a
major airline, hotel or rental car company, or even the possibility of such a
bankruptcy, could discourage customers from using our  Name Your Own Price     system to book
travel. 

The loss of any major
airline participant in our  Name Your Own
Price      system could result
in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the  Name Your Own Price     system, which
would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  In addition, fewer
independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are unable to divert
sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected. 

In addition, given the
concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our
competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with
tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven
commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services.  

If
one of our major rental car suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is
acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the
priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the
surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate
at lower levels than the previous supplier.  The loss of any rental car
supplier participant in our  Name Your Own
Price      system
could result in other rental car suppliers electing to terminate or reduce
their participation in the  Name Your Own
Price     system, which would negatively impact our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  Furthermore,
many major rental car companies are highly leveraged and the worldwide
recession creates the potential for severe financial difficulty, including
without limitation, the inability of a rental car company to refinance its
debt, restructure its operations or emerge from a  

17  

Table
of Contents   

bankruptcy,
any of which could lead to a reduction in rental car supply made available to
us and an increase in credit card chargebacks. 
In addition, fewer independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition
among suppliers.  In such event, if we are unable to divert sales to other
suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be
adversely affected.  

In
addition, rental car companies rely on auto manufacturers to provide new
vehicles for their fleet.  Rental car companies also rely on auto
manufacturers and the wholesale used car market to dispose of their fleets of
cars.  Worldwide recession has led
to questions about the long term viability of the major U.S. auto
manufacturers.  In addition, the tight credit market has negatively
affected the used car market, making it difficult for auto manufacturers and
rental car suppliers to dispose of their fleets.  If the rental car
industry is faced with excess supply, rental car companies may lower retail
rental car rates, which could be beneficial to our retail rental car business,
but detrimental to our  Name Your Own Price      business.  Because rental car days are typically less
expensive than airline tickets or hotel room nights, a reduction in retail
rental car rates has a disproportionately adverse effect on sales of  Name Your Own Price     rental car days since customers may be less
likely to accept the trade-offs associated with that service.  Alternatively, if the industry is faced with
a shortage of vehicles, rental car companies may reduce the number of car
reservations they distribute through our service or increase the negotiated
rates at which they are willing to provide car reservations.  Any disruption in the supply of vehicles or
the ability to dispose of vehicles by car rental companies could impact their
ability to match their fleet supply with demand, which could adversely impact
our business. 

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.    

As a result of the growth
of our  international operations, we are conducting a significant portion of our business outside
the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. dollars.  As a result, we face exposure to adverse
movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated
from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into
U.S. dollars upon consolidation.  For
example, our international
operations contributed approximately $619.8 million to our revenues for the
year ended December 31, 2008, which compares to $372.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2007. 
Approximately $11.3 million of this increase is due to fluctuations in
currency exchange rates.  The U.S. dollar
generally weakened from when we acquired Booking.com B.V. in July 2005,
until mid-2008, and as a result, the year over year growth rates in our
international results, when reported in U.S. dollars, were positively impacted
by changes in foreign exchange rates. 
However, the U.S. dollar has recently strengthened significantly against
the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, which results in decreased net assets,
revenues, operating expenses, and net income, and in the fourth quarter 2008,
for the first time since our acquisition of Booking.com B.V., the foreign
exchange impact was negative rather than positive.  Accordingly, if this trend continues, it will
become increasingly difficult for us to grow our gross bookings, revenues and
earnings on a U.S. dollar denominated basis during 2009 and beyond.  If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local
currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated balances will
result in increased net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses,
and net income. 

Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our
financial performance.    

We compete with both online
and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services
we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch
new sites at a relatively low cost. In addition, the major online travel
companies with which we compete have significantly greater financial resources
and capital than we do.  We may not be
able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz
Worldwide or Sabre, each of which has access to significantly greater and more
diversified resources than we do.  

18  

Table of Contents   

We currently or potentially
compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With
respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited
to:  

Internet travel services
such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia, and
Venere, an Italian-based agency hotel reservation service provider that was
acquired by Expedia in the third quarter of 2008; Travelocity and
lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets,
ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz
Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers,
octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, Ctrip, Rakuten
and Wotif; 

travel suppliers such as
airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their
own branded websites to which they drive business; 

large online portal and
search companies, such as AOL (including AOL Travel), Yahoo! (including Yahoo!
Travel) and Google; 

traditional travel
agencies, wholesalers and tour operators; 

online travel search sites
such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com and SideStep.com (each
sometimes referred to as  meta-search  sites) and travel research sites that
have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com;
and 

operators of travel
industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre. 

Many airline, hotel and
rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are
focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party
distributors such as us.  Certain
suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book
airline reservations through an online channel other than their own
website.  Furthermore, several low cost
airlines, which are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute
their tickets exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically
do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such
as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their
offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours.  

We potentially face
competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have
expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic,
including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us
either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or
off-line companies.  We also compete with
 meta-search  companies, which are companies that leverage their search
technology to aggregate travel search results across supplier, travel agent and
other websites.  Some established search
engine companies as well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel
marketplace in this manner.  If Google,
Yahoo! or other portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search engines,
it could result in more competition from supplier websites and higher customer
acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours.  Competition from these and other sources
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:  

19  

Table of Contents   

marketing and promotional campaigns;  

                         attracting traffic to their websites;  

                         attracting and retaining key employees;  

                         securing vendors and supply; and  

                         website and systems development.  

Increased competition could
result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our
brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

Worldwide recession increases
the likelihood that holders of our convertible senior notes will elect to
convert their notes prior to maturity.   

In
the past several months, the world financial markets   and in particular the
world debt markets   have experienced major disruptions, causing investors to
liquidate investment holdings in favor of the relative safety of cash and/or
government backed securities.  The
holders of our convertible senior notes are primarily hedge funds whose investment
pools are subject to such investor demands for liquidity.  Given the worldwide
recession, significant investor redemptions and withdrawals from hedge
funds by their underlying investors are likely. 
Accordingly, a potentially significant number of hedge funds that hold
our convertible senior notes could be forced to convert their notes prior to
maturity in order to meet these investor demands.  For example, since September 30, 2008,
we received conversion notices for approximately $58 million of our convertible
senior notes. Any such conversion activity exposes us to several potential
risks, including without limitation:  

Early
conversions of a significant amount of our convertible senior notes would
reduce our cash and investment balances .  We would likely fund any
conversion obligations with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, long-term investments and borrowings under our revolving credit
facility.  While we currently have
sufficient cash and investment balances to fund early conversions, if a
significant amount of convertible senior notes were to be converted, our cash
and investment balances would be significantly reduced. 

In
certain circumstances, our Conversion Spread Hedges could be ineffective.   In connection with the issuance in a private placement of $172.5
million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30,
2011, with an interest rate of 0.50% (the  2011 Notes ), and $172.5 million
aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30,
2013, with an interest rate of 0.75% (the  2013 Notes ), we purchased certain
Conversion Spread Hedges that entitle us to purchase from Goldman Sachs and
Merrill Lynch approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock (the number
of shares underlying the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes) at a strike price of
$40.38 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in 2011 and
2013, and the hedging counterparties are entitled to purchase from us
approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of
$50.47 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in 2011 and
2013.  We purchased the Conversion Spread Hedges in order to increase the
effective conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes to $50.47 per
share from the stated conversion price of $40.38 per share, thereby reducing
the potential dilution upon the expected conversion of the 2011 Notes and the
2013 Notes at their maturity dates.   The
Conversion Spread Hedges do not immediately hedge against the associated
dilution from conversions of our notes prior to their stated maturities.  Therefore, if the holders of the 2011 Notes
or the 2013 Notes elect to convert all or a portion of their notes prior to
maturity, we will be obligated to immediately deliver any related conversion
premium in shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares.  However, our hedging counterparties will not
be obligated to deliver us shares or cash that would offset the dilution
associated with the early  

20  

Table
of Contents   

conversion activity until 2011 and 2013.  Because of this potential timing difference,
it is possible that the number of shares, if any, that we receive from our
Conversion Hedge Spread could differ materially from the number of shares, if
any, that we are required to deliver to holders of our notes upon their early
conversion.  This potential difference in
timing potentially makes the hedges ineffective, which could negatively impact
our future diluted shares outstanding and diluted earnings per share.  

Early
conversions of our convertible senior notes would subject us to accelerated
recognition of debt issuance expense.   In connection with the issuance of our
convertible senior notes, we incurred certain debt issuance costs that we carry
on our balance sheet as  Other Assets . 
The current unamortized value of our debt issuance costs is $6.3
million.  These debt issuance costs are
amortized over the period beginning with the date on which the notes were
issued and ending on their stated maturity date or the first stated put date,
if applicable.   However, in the event
that some or all of our convertible senior notes are converted prior to their
expected maturity date, we will be required to accelerate the expense of some
or all of the carrying value of our debt issuance costs.  As a result, we would experience a
significant increase in our interest expense for the period in which the
acceleration occurs.  While such an
expense would be non-cash in nature and would generally not be recurring, it
could have a negative impact on our earnings for the period in which we
recognize such an expense. 

We are exposed to various counterparty risks.   

We
are party to derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuation, as well as potential dilution upon conversion of our
convertible senior notes.  As of December 31,
2008, we are party to foreign currency contracts with a notional value of
approximately 25.0 million Euros.  The
counterparties to these contracts are JPMorganChase and Morgan Stanley.  On the maturity dates of these contracts, the
counterparties are potentially obligated to pay us the net settlement
value.  The counterparties to our
Conversion Spread Hedges are Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch.  Under the Conversion Spread Hedges, we are
entitled to purchase from the counterparties approximately 8.5 million shares
of our common stock (the number of shares underlying the 2011 Notes and the
2013 Notes) at a strike price of $40.38 per share (subject to adjustment in
certain circumstances) and the counterparties are entitled to purchase from us
approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of
$50.47 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances).  The
Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective conversion price of the 2011
Notes and the 2013 Notes to $50.47 per share from our perspective and are
designed to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and
the 2013 Notes. If the market value per share of our common stock at maturity
is above $40.38, the Conversion Spread Hedge will entitle us to receive from
the counterparties net shares of our common stock based on the excess of the
then current market price of our common stock over the strike price of the
hedge (up to $50.47).  If any of the
counterparties to these derivative instruments were to liquidate, declare
bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations, it may not satisfy its obligations
under these derivative instruments.  In
such event, our fully diluted share count would be increased, which would
negatively impact our fully diluted earnings per share.  

Our business could be negatively affected by
changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of
traffic-generating arrangements.    

We utilize Internet search
engines and other travel demand aggregation websites, principally through the
purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites.  Our  international operations, in particular, rely to a significant
extent upon Google to generate business and, to a much lesser extent, other
search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites.  Search engines such as Google frequently
update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of
results of a user s search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and
particularly those of our international operations and their affiliates, can be negatively
affected.  In a similar way, a
significant amount of our international business is directed to our own websites through participation
in pay-per-click advertising  

21  

Table of Contents   

campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing
and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially, technically
and competitively.  In addition, we
purchase web traffic from a number of sources, including some operated by our
competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can be terminated
with little or no notice.  If one or more
of such arrangements is terminated, or if a major search engine, such as
Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search
engine ranking of our brands or our third-party distribution partners or
changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner,
our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected.  

Our processing, storage, use and disclosure
of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches
and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation,
conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.   

The security of data when
engaging in electronic commerce is essential in maintaining consumer and
supplier confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing
security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or
other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We
currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their
offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our
toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer
circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including
our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer
transaction data.  

We cannot guarantee that
our existing security measures will prevent security breaches or attacks. A
party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that
is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer information or
transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in
our operations. For instance, from time to time, we have experienced
 denial-of-service  type attacks on our system that have made portions of our
websites slow or unavailable for periods of time.  We may need to expend significant resources
to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches,
and reductions in website availability and response time could cause loss of
substantial business volumes during the occurrence of any such incident.  These issues are likely to become more
difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools
and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced.  Security breaches could result in negative
publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and
possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties. Security breaches
could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our
security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand.  Our insurance policies carry low coverage
limits, and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by
security breaches.  

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find
unsatisfactory.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time
consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are
difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions
increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in
detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given
attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could
expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal customer data
and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

We also face risks
associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business
over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy
on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth
of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com service as a means of
conducting commercial transactions. 
Additionally, security breaches at the third-party, supplier or
distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity,
damage our   

22  

Table of Contents   

reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation
and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties.  

In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data.  This data is increasingly subject
to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  This government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  We could be adversely affected if legislation
or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations
in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

In addition, in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United
States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives
to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security
Administration s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as
CAPPS II.  These initiatives may result
in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling.  As privacy and data protection has become a
more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a
result of differing views on the privacy of travel data.  Travel businesses have also been subjected to
investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure
of passenger information.  These and
other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely
impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Adverse application of state and local tax laws
could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation.    

Several
jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against many on-line travel companies,
including us, alleging among other things, that sales or hotel occupancy tax is
applicable to the differential between the price paid by a customer for our
service and the cost of the underlying room. In addition, a number of
jurisdictions have initiated audit proceedings against us purportedly to
determine whether taxes are owed on this differential or issued assessments
claiming that we owe tax on this differential for prior periods.  Additional state and local jurisdictions
could assert that we are subject to sales or hotel occupancy taxes on this
differential and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or
prospectively, or both. Historically, we have not collected taxes on this
differential. Such actions may result in substantial liabilities for past
and/or future sales and could have a material adverse effect our business and
results of operations.  To the extent
that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that any such tax collection
responsibility exists, it is likely that, with respect to future transactions,
we would collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which
would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our
customers and, consequently, could reduce hotel reservation transactions.  We will continue to assess the risks of the
potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the extent
appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities.  

In addition, we may be required in certain jurisdictions to pay tax
assessments, which may be substantial, prior to contesting the validity of such
assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as  pay to play.  Payment
of these amounts is not an admission that the tax payer believes it is subject
to such taxes. We continue to work with relevant tax authorities to clarify our
obligations under existing, new and emerging laws and regulations. There have
been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include
 pay to play  payments, associated with complying with, and defending our
position in, the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in
which we conduct or will conduct business.  

Recession
in the United States is triggering active consideration on ways to generate
additional tax revenues by the federal, state and local governments. We cannot
predict what changes in tax law or interpretations of such laws may be adopted
or assure that such changes or interpretations would not materially impact our
business.  

We rely on the performance of
highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key
personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would
be harmed.   

Our performance is largely dependent on the
talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends
on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain
highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization.  In particular, the contributions of certain
key senior management in the U.S. and Europe are critical to the overall
management of the company.  In addition,
because our European senior management s minority ownership interest was
repurchased in September   

23  

Table of Contents   

2008, it may become more difficult to retain these senior managers over
time.  We cannot ensure that we will be
able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other
key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business.  

In addition, competition for well-qualified
employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers and
other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad.  With the recent success of our international
business and the increased profile of the Booking.com business and brand,
competitors have increased their efforts to hire our international
employees.  Our continued ability to
compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to
retain and motivate existing employees. 
If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining
and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We
do not maintain any key person life insurance policies.  

Our expansion places a significant strain on our management, technical,
operational and financial resources.   

We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
international operations and anticipate expanding further to pursue growth of
our service offerings and customer base. For example, the number of our
employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007, to
approximately 1,780 as of February 1, 2009, which growth is almost
entirely comprised of hires by our international operations.  Such expansion increases the complexity of
our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, technical
performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting
functions.  

There can be no assurance that we will be able to
manage our expansion effectively.  Our
current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be
adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as
we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations.  We may not be able to hire, train, retain,
motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our
reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and harm our business.  

Capacity constraints and system failures could harm
our business.    

We rely on certain third
party computer systems and third party service providers, including the computerized
central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car industries to
satisfy demand for airline tickets and domestic hotel room and rental car
reservations. In particular, our domestic travel business is substantially
dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators of global
distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in these third
party services systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us
from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a material
adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party service
providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse
for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of such third
parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of
systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a
result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.  

We depend upon Paymentech
to process our U.S. credit card transactions, and e-clearing, WorldPay and
others to process Agoda credit card transactions. If any of these providers
were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until
such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different
vendor.  As we add complexity to our
systems infrastructure by adding new suppliers and distribution, our total
system availability could decline and our results could suffer.  

A substantial amount of our
computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the
facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT T in New York City, Equinix Europe
Ltd. in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus in the
Netherlands. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or
interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss,   

24  

Table of Contents   

telecommunication failures and similar events. They
are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and
similar misconduct. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any
disruption of service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other
unanticipated problems at the SAVVIS facility, the AT T facility, the
Equinix Europe Ltd. facility or the TelecityRedbus and Global Switch Amsterdam
B.V. facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In
addition, the failure by SAVVIS, Verizon, AT T, Equinix Europe Ltd., Colt
Telecom Group Limited, Verizon Business B.V., or TrueServer B.V. to provide our
required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service.
Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the
responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand
name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  

We
do not have a completely formalized disaster recovery plan in every geographic
region in which we conduct business.  In the event of certain system
failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the
time to full recovery could be prolonged. 
Like many online businesses, we have
experienced system failures from time to time. In addition to placing increased
burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of
user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support
personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an
immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial and may cause some users to
switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system
failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been
taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems. These
steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in
reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.  

We use both internally
developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including
transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If the number
of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party
systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and
upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and
accounting systems and other infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be
able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions
in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our
transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a
meaningful amount of time before repair.  

If our systems cannot be
expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could
experience:  

unanticipated disruptions in service;  

                         slower response times;  

                         decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or  

                         delays in the introduction of new services,  

any of which could impair our reputation, damage our
brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues.  While we do maintain redundant systems and
hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could
experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business interruption
insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.  

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of
system challenges.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system
characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources
and expertise that are difficult to obtain. 
Such acquisitions increase potential downtime, customer facing problems
and compliance problems.  Failure to
successfully make any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us
to potential capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an
adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

25  

Table
of Contents   

We have integrated the
majority of our international agency hotel
offerings into a single back-office extranet system operated by Booking.com
B.V., in order to allow customers of both Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com
Limited to access hotels which may have previously been available only through
either Booking.com B.V. or Booking.com Limited. 
Because all of our  international operations  agency hotel offerings are therefore
on one platform, in the event that the extranet operated by Booking.com B.V.
experiences a system failure, our international
operations could be unable to generate hotel bookings, which would have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. 

Our financial results will
be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future.    

Due to our significant net
operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to pay cash taxes on our U.S.
federal taxable income tax for the foreseeable future.  We expect to make cash payments for U.S.
alternative minimum tax and for certain international taxes.  We expect that our international operations
will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. over the long term
and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax rate and cash tax
payments will increase as our international business generates an increasing
share of our pretax income.  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an accounting rule change
that will significantly impact the accounting for our convertible debt.    

The
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt
Instruments that May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial
Cash Settlement)  ( FSP APB 14-1 ).  FSP
APB 14-1 requires cash settled convertible debt, such as our convertible senior
notes, to be separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a value
to be assigned to each.  The value
assigned to the debt component would be the estimated fair value, as of the
issuance date, of a similar bond without the conversion feature.  The difference between the bond cash proceeds
and this estimated fair value, representing the value assigned to the equity
component, would be recorded as a debt discount and amortized to interest
expense over the life of the bond.  In
addition, if our convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity
and the fair value of the debt component immediately prior to extinguishment
exceeds the carrying value it will result in a loss on extinguishment.  Although FSP APB 14-1 will have no impact on
our actual past or future cash flows, it will require us to record a significant
amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is amortized and may
result in losses on extinguishment that would not have occurred under previous
GAAP.  FSP APB 14-1 is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2008, and must be applied on a retrospective basis.  We estimate that the adoption of FSP APB 14-1
will increase non-cash interest expense for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006 by approximately $26 million ($16 million net of tax), $28
million ($17 million net of tax),  and $6
million ($3.6 million net of tax), respectively.  The estimated impact to fiscal year 2009
non-cash interest expense is expected to be an increase of approximately $21
million ($13 million net of tax), excluding the impact of future debt conversions,
if any.  We estimate that adoption of FSP
APB 14-1 will also result in a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately
$5 million ($3 million net of tax) for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Acquisitions could result in
operating difficulties.    

As part of our business
strategy, in September 2004, we acquired Booking.com Limited, in July 2005,
Booking.com B.V. and, in November 2007, Agoda.  We may enter into additional business
combinations and acquisitions in the future. 
Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use
of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related
to intangible assets acquired.  In
addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or
technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures.  The acquisitions of  Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, and Agoda were accompanied by a number of risks,
including, without limitation: 

the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies
appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the
acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies;  

26  

Table of Contents   

the difficulty of
assimilating the operations and personnel of Booking.com Limited, which are
principally located in Cambridge, England, Booking.com B.V., which are
principally located in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and Agoda, which are
principally located in Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, with and into our
operations, which are headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut; 

                         the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of
management;  

                         the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our
services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;  

                         the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting
in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;  

                         the impairment of relationships with customers of   Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited and Agoda or our own
customers as a result of any integration of operations;  

                         the impairment of relationships with employees of Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and Agoda or our own business as a result of any
integration of new management personnel;  

                         the potential unknown liabilities associated with Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and Agoda.  

We may experience similar
risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in
addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the
acquisitions of  Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited or Agoda, or that we
could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause
us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $481 million assigned
primarily to the intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and Agoda, and therefore,
the occurrence of any of the risks identified above could result in a material
adverse impact, including an impairment of these assets, which could cause us
to have to record a charge for impairment. 
Any such charge could adversely impact our operating results, which
would likely cause our stock price to decline significantly. 

We may not be able to keep
up with rapid technological and other changes.    

The markets in which we
compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry
standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and
enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with
these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened
by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from
many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future
success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies,
to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve
the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to
competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In
addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or
telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us
to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or
infrastructure.  

We rely on the value of the
priceline.com and Booking.com brands, along with others, and the costs of
maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.    

We believe that maintaining
and expanding the priceline.com brand, and other owned brands, including  Booking.com,
Active Hotels, Agoda, Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com,
MyTravelGuide.com and Travelweb, are important aspects of our efforts to
attract and expand our user and advertiser base.  As our larger competitors spend increasingly
more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our
brand recognition.  In addition, we have
spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and
maintenance of the priceline.com brands, and we will continue to spend money
on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building
efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands.
We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of
the priceline.com brands, and, even if we are  

27  

Table of Contents   

successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may
not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer
awareness of the priceline.com brands in a cost-effective manner, our business,
results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.  

Our outstanding convertible senior notes
could result in substantial shareholder dilution.   

Our convertible senior
notes are convertible into shares of our common stock if certain specified
conditions are met.  All of our
convertible notes are currently convertible. 
Upon conversion, the holder will receive cash for the principal amount
of the note and cash or shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and
shares of our common stock for the conversion value in excess of such principal
amount.  If our stock trades above the
conversion prices of the outstanding convertible notes, our diluted share count
will increase by the net number of shares that would become issuable to the
holders of our outstanding convertible notes and, as a consequence, have a
dilutive impact on net income per share. 
 As an example, at
stock prices of $40 per share, $60 per share, $80 per share and $100 per share,
common equivalent shares would include approximately 0.1 million, 3.3 million,
5.0 million and 6.0 million equivalent shares, respectively, related to the
remaining outstanding convertible notes (excluding
the offsetting impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges described in Note 13 to
our Consolidated Financial Statements). 
The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective conversion
price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes from $40.38 to $50.47 per share, and
reduce the dilution upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes.  Since the impact of the Conversion Spread
Hedges is anti-dilutive it is excluded from the calculation of net income per
share under GAAP until they are exercised upon maturity. 

We will be subject to increased income taxes
in the event that our foreign cash balances are remitted to the United States  . 

As of December 31, 2008, we held approximately $181.6 million of
cash and short-term liquid investments outside of the United States.  To date, we have used our foreign cash to
reinvest in our foreign operations.  It
is our current expectation to continue to seek ways to make further investments
in our foreign operations with our foreign cash.  If our foreign cash balances continue to grow
and our ability to reinvest those balances diminishes, it will become
increasingly likely that we will repatriate some of our foreign cash balances
to the United States.  In such event, we
would likely be subject to additional income tax expenses in the United States
with respect to our unremitted foreign earnings.  We would not incur an increase in cash income
taxes payable unless we no longer have net operating loss carryforwards
available to offset the taxable income.  

The unit profitability of our airline ticket business has declined and
could continue to decline, as we may be subject to, among other things,
competitive pressure and loss or reduction of global distribution system fees.   

In
recent quarters, the amount of profit we make per airline ticket sold has
declined and could continue to decline as we, among other things, experience
pressure from suppliers to reduce our profit, strive to remain competitive with
other online travel agencies and continue to be subject to reduction of global
distribution system, or GDS, fees paid to us. 
Historically, we have relied on fees paid to us by GDSs for travel bookings made through GDSs for a portion
of our gross profit and a substantial portion of our operating income. We
rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers (e.g., airlines, hotels, etc.) in
exchange for contractual considerations such as those relating to pricing and
availability, and expect to continue to do so in the future.  Airlines put pressure on us to reduce our
aggregate compensation and book through lower cost channels to receive
airlines  full content and avoid airline service fees.  We have agreements with a number of airlines
to obtain access to airline content, and are in continuing discussions with
others to obtain similar access.  If we
were denied access to airlines  full content or had to impose   

28  

Table
of Contents   

service fees on our airline tickets, it could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

Additionally, some travel
suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to
develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct
connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution
methods.  Development of the technology
to connect to such alternatives, or to enable direct connections to travel suppliers,
requires the use of information technology resources and could cause us to
incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system
problems and delay other projects.  

We face risks related to our
intellectual property.    

We regard our intellectual
property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our
proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual
property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.  

While we believe that our
issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business,
there can be no assurance that:  

any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third
parties;  

                         pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents;  

                         competitors or potential competitors of priceline.com will not devise new
methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent
applications;  

                         because of variations in the application of our business model to each of
our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third
parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in
one or more categories;  

                         new prior art will not be discovered which may diminish the value of or
invalidate an issued patent;  

                         a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that prevent us
from practicing features of our business or require us to pay for a license to
use those features; or  

                         our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of
third parties.  

There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called
 business method  patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark
Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable
to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a
direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if
any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, t here has been recent discussion in various
federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called
 business method  patents. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in a
recent order in    In re Bilski   , has questioned whether it
should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called
business method patents in    State Street Bank v. Signature Financial   .  
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will
have on our issued patents or pending patent applications. 

We pursue the registration
of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However,
effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our services are made available
online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the
value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.  

29  

Table of Contents   

From time to time, in the
ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently
subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property
rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert
intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us,
particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual
property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely
expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert
managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us
could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our
business, or portions of our business. 
In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to
use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be
expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Our business is
exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and charge backs.   

To date, our results have
been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards.
Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our domestic
transactions as well as those of Agoda, we may be held liable for accepting
fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with
our customers. Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit
cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of
record.  Accordingly, we calculate and
record an allowance for the resulting credit card charge backs.  If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent
credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial
condition could be materially adversely affected.  

Fluctuations in our
financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting
difficult.    

Our
revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to
quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect
seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional
leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third
calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In
the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services
in the United States and Europe generally declines and the number of bookings
flattens.  Furthermore, prior to
introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all of our
business was conducted under the  Name Your
Own Price      system and
accordingly, because those services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize
travel revenue at the time a booking was generated.  We recognize revenue generated from our
retail hotel service, however, including our international operations, at the time
that the customer checks out of the hotel. 
As a result, we have seen and expect to continue to see, that a
meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as
customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be
recognized until future quarters.  This
could result in a disproportionate amount of our annual earnings being
recognized in later quarters. 

Our results may also be
affected by seasonal fluctuations in the supply made available to us by
airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating results
may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these
factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and
operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our limited
operating history, a relatively new and unproven business model and an
uncertain environment in the travel industry, it may be difficult to predict
our future revenues or results of operations. 
A significant change in the global economic environment, such as we are
currently experiencing as a result of the worldwide recession, makes it more
difficult to forecast future operating results.  

Because of these
fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the
expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading
price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially adversely
affected.  

30  

Table
of Contents   

Our stock price is highly volatile  . 

The market price of our common
stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide
fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are
beyond our control:  

quarterly variations in our operating results;  

                         operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts
and investors;  

                         changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including
financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;  

                         changes in our capital structure;  

                         changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies;  

                         announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our
competitors;  

                         announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts,
acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;  

                         loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain;  

                         changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;  

                         lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically;  

                         announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against
us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;  

                         occurrences of a significant security breach;  

                         additions or departures of key personnel; and  

                         stock market price and volume fluctuations.  

Sales of a substantial
number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of
our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given
the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market
price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations
in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock
attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds
into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either
direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.  

The trading prices of
Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme
price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public s perception of
the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price
could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and
industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless
of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political
and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate
fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock.  Negative market conditions could adversely
affect our ability to raise additional capital.  

We are defendants in
securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action
litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of
volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price
declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional
litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and
divert management s attention and resources.  

31  

Table of Contents    

We are party to legal
proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us.    

We are a party to the legal
proceedings described in Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  The defense of the actions described in Note
18 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

Regulatory and legal
uncertainties could harm our business.    

The services we offer through the
priceline.com service are regulated by federal and state governments. Our
ability to provide such services is and will continue to be affected by such
regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable
interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could
require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the
affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  See  Uncertainty regarding state and local
taxes.   

Item 1B. 
Unresolved Staff Comments      

None.  

Item 2. 
Properties      

Our executive,
administrative, operating offices and network operations center are located in
approximately 92,000 square feet of leased office space located in Norwalk,
Connecticut.  We also lease approximately
45,670 of office space in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Booking.com Limited leases
approximately 11,000 square feet of office space primarily in Cambridge,
England.  Booking.com B.V. leases
approximately 102,000 square feet of office space primarily in Amsterdam,
Netherlands.  Agoda leases approximately
20,000 square feet of office space primarily in Bangkok, Thailand.  We also lease office space in 13 other
countries in support of our international operations.  We do not own any real estate as of February 1,
2009.  

We believe that our existing
facilities are adequate to meet our current requirements, and that suitable
additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any
further expansion of corporate operations.  

32  

Table of Contents   

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings      

Litigation
Related to Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes   

Statewide Class Actions and Putative Class Actions   

A
number of cities and counties have filed class actions or putative class
actions on behalf of themselves and other allegedly similarly situated cities
and counties within the same respective state against us and other defendants,
including, but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC, both of
which are our subsidiaries, and Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.;
Cheaptickets, Inc.; Travelport, Inc. (f/k/a Cendant Travel
Distribution Services Group, Inc.); Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork
Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.;
Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP;
and Travelnow.com, Inc.  Each
complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants violated each
jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the
charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes under each ordinance.  Each complaint typically seeks compensatory
damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law, attorneys  fees and other
relief.  Such actions include:  

City
of Los Angeles v. Hotels.com, Inc., et al.  :  On December 30,
2004, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Superior Court for the
County of Los Angeles by the City of Los Angeles on behalf of itself and an
alleged class of California cities, counties and other municipalities that have
enacted occupancy taxes.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under
California Business and Professions Code   17200, et seq. ( Section 17200 ).  On August 31, 2005, the City of Los
Angeles filed an amended complaint adding a claim for a declaratory
judgment.  On September 26, 2005,
the court sustained the defendants  demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims, and therefore, dismissed the amended complaint, with
leave to file a second amended complaint. 
On February 8, 2006, the City of Los Angeles filed a second amended
complaint that asserts the same claims but includes additional allegations of
fact.  On March 27, 2006, at the
direction of the court, the defendants filed renewed demurrers to the second
amended complaint on grounds of improper joinder of defendants and claims.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
a petition to coordinate this matter with the City of San Diego case (discussed
below).  On July 12, 2006, that
petition was granted, and, as a result, this case and the City of San Diego
case will now proceed in the Superior Court of Los Angeles.  On January 17, 2007, the defendants
filed demurrers to the City of Los Angeles  second amended complaint on all
issues other than misjoinder of defendants and claims.  On March 1, 2007, the court denied
defendants  previously-filed demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims.  On March 2,
2007, the City of Los Angeles filed a third amended complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the defendants filed
renewed demurrers to the third amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s third amended complaint
without prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City has not yet
completed those administrative procedures. 

City
of Rome, Georgia, et al., v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On November 18,
2005, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia by the City of Rome, Hart County and
the City of Cartersville on behalf of themselves and a putative class of
Georgia cities, counties and governments which have enacted transient occupancy
taxes and/or excise taxes on lodging.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of
Georgia s Uniform Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act, conversion, unjust
enrichment, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On February 6, 2006, we and certain
other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On May 8, 2006, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss all claims relating to the Georgia sales and use
tax and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the excise tax claims.  The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on June 7,
2006 naming additional plaintiffs.  On February 9,
2007, the defendants moved for summary judgment on the plaintiffs  claims for
plaintiffs  failure to exhaust the administrative procedures required by
Georgia law and plaintiffs  respective  

33  

Table
of Contents   

ordinances.  On May 10, 2007, the court denied the
defendants  motion but concluding that plaintiffs were required to estimate,
assess and attempt to collect the taxes at issue.  The court stayed further litigation to permit
plaintiffs to comply with those administrative procedures.  On March 26, 2008, certain of the
plaintiffs in the  City of Rome  action sent the
defendants, including us and our subsidiaries, proposed assessments of hotel
occupancy tax.  We and our subsidiaries
promptly responded on March 31, 2008. 
Certain of the plaintiffs in the  City of Rome 
action sent the defendants, including us and our subsidiaries, renewed
assessments.  The administrative process
of those plaintiffs remains ongoing and the action remains stayed pending the
decision of the Georgia Supreme Court in  City of Atlanta, Georgia
v. Hotels.com L.P., et al . (described below).  

Pitt
County v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On December 1, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the North Carolina General Court
of Justice, Superior Court Division by Pitt County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of North Carolina political subdivisions that impose occupancy
taxes.  In addition to the tax claims, the
complaint also asserts claims for violation of North Carolina General Statute  
75-1, et seq., conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory
judgment.  On February 13, 2006, the
defendants removed this action to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.  On March 13,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 29, 2007, the court denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On April 13, 2007, the defendants moved for reconsideration of that
decision or, in the alternative, interlocutory appeal.  On August 13, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion for reconsideration of the court s prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss, and dismissed the action in its entirety.  On September 6, 2007, Pitt County filed
a notice of appeal of that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit.  On January 14,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed the
district court s decision rejecting Pitt County s tax claims.  On January 27, 2009, the County filed a
petition for re-hearing en banc.  On February 10,
2009, the petition for re-hearing en banc was denied. 

City
of San Antonio, Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On May 8,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Texas, San Antonio Division, by the City of
San Antonio on behalf of itself and putative classes of Texas
municipalities.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claim for conversion and a declaratory
judgment.  On June 30, 2006, we and
other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On August 28, 2006, the plaintiff moved
for class certification.  Following
briefing of the motion to dismiss and motion for class certification, on October 30,
2006, the plaintiff filed a first amended complaint that limited the putative
classes of Texas municipalities to 175 specifically enumerated municipalities
that plaintiff alleges to have hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to that
of the plaintiff.  On March 21,
2007, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the City of San Antonio s
amended complaint.  On September 7,
2007, the defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s March 21,
2007 order denying the defendants  motion to dismiss, and that motion was
denied on October 1, 2007.  On May 27,
2008, the court granted the City of San Antonio s motion to certify a class of
175 specifically enumerated Texas municipalities that the City alleges to have
hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to it. 
On June 10, 2008, the defendants petitioned the United States Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for interlocutory review of the class
certification decision, which petition was denied on July 3, 2008.  On August 12, 2008, the court granted
plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to add equitable claims of
unjust enrichment, money had and received, and for a constructive trust.  Plaintiff amended its complaint on August 13,
2008 and the defendants answered the amended complaint on August 27,
2008.  The parties are presently
conducting discovery. 

Lake
County Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc. and Marshall County v.
Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On June 12, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Indiana, Hammond Division, by the Lake County Convention and Visitors Bureau
and Marshall County on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Indiana
counties, convention and visitors bureaus and any other local governments which
have enacted or benefit from taxes on innkeepers.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and breach of fiduciary
duties.  On November 3, 2006, we and
other defendants moved to dismiss the  

34  

Table
of Contents   

complaint.  On July 14, 2008, the court denied the
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On July 28, 2008, the defendants answered the complaint.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery.  

Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On September 21,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Kentucky by the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government on behalf of itself and a putative class of Kentucky cities,
counties and townships that have enacted transient room taxes.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, money had and received, unjust enrichment,
a constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment.  On December 15, 2006, the plaintiff
moved to amend the complaint to make certain changes to the identity of the
defendants. That motion was granted, and, on January 8, 2007, plaintiff
filed its amended complaint.  On December 22,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the original complaint, and, on January 17,
2007, renewed their motion to dismiss with respect to the amended
complaint.  On August 10, 2007, the
court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss. 
On September 13, 2007, the defendants answered.  On October 26, 2007, the defendants
filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s order denying the defendants 
motion to dismiss, or, in the alternative, certification of interlocutory
appeal to the Kentucky Supreme Court or the United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit.  On November 9,
2007, the plaintiff moved to strike the defendants  motion for
reconsideration.  On February 20,
2008, the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government ( Lexington ) filed a
motion to intervene in this action as an additional plaintiff, which the
defendants did not oppose.  On March 20,
2008, Lexington s motion was granted, and its intervening complaint was filed
on April 16, 2008.  Lexington s
intervening complaint makes substantially the same claims asserted by the
Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government, except it does not seek to
represent a class.  On March 21,
2008, the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government filed an unopposed
motion to amend its complaint to withdraw its allegations relating to the
proposed certification of a class of Kentucky cities, counties and townships
that have enacted transient room taxes, and to make certain other changes to
the alleged facts.  That motion was
granted on June 6, 2008 and the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government was ordered to file an amended complaint.  On May 16, 2008, the defendants moved to
dismiss the intervening complaint filed by the Lexington-Fayette Urban County
Government.  On September 30, 2008,
the court granted the defendants  motion for reconsideration of its prior order
denying the defendants  motion to dismiss the claims brought by the
Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government, and dismissed all of that
plaintiff s claims.  The court also
granted the defendants  motion to dismiss the claims brought by the
Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government. 
The court dismissed all claims against the defendants with
prejudice.  Both plaintiffs have filed
notices of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. 

County
of Nassau, New York v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On October 24,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of New York by Nassau County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New York cities, counties and other local governmental
entities that have imposed hotel taxes since March 1, 1995.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment and a constructive
trust.  On January 31, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On August 17, 2007, the court granted the defendants  motion to
dismiss the complaint for the County of Nassau s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On September 12, 2007, the County of
Nassau filed a notice of appeal of that order to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.  On January 22,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, heard oral
argument on the County s appeal of the lower court s order dismissing the
action and ordered further briefing on certain issues. 

City
of Jefferson, Missouri v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On June 27,
2007, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Cole
County, Missouri by the City of Jefferson, Missouri on behalf of itself and a
putative class of Missouri cities, counties and governments that have enacted
taxes on lodging.  In addition to the
claim for hotel taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for violation of the
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment,
declaratory judgment, breach of fiduciary duties and a constructive trust.  On November 5, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On June 19,
2008, the court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss in part and denied it
in  

35  

Table
of Contents   

part.  The court dismissed the claim for violation
of the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, but did not dismiss the remaining
claims.  On July 21, 2008, the
defendants answered the complaint.  

City
of Gallup, New Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On July 6,
2007, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of New Mexico by the City of Gallup on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New Mexico taxing authorities that have enacted lodgers 
taxes.  The complaint asserts claims for
violation of the New Mexico Lodger s Tax Act and municipal ordinances.  On August 27, 2007, the defendants
answered the City of Gallup s complaint. 
On January 8, 2009, the City filed an unopposed motion to amend its
complaint to narrow its class allegations and to seek injunctive relief.  On February 2, 2009 the defendants
answered the amended complaint. The parties are currently conducting discovery. 

City
of Jacksonville v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  In July 2006,
a putative class action was filed in the Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial
Circuit, in and for Duval County, Florida, by the City of Jacksonville on
behalf of itself and a putative class of Florida counties that collect tourist
development taxes and/or convention development taxes and that have elected
self administration of such taxes.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion,
unjust enrichment, a constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment.  On August 21, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint for the City of Jacksonville s
failure to exhaust its mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.
On September 10, 2007, the City of Jacksonville moved for a stay of
proceedings pending the outcome of that administrative process.  That motion was denied on October 31,
2007 and the case was closed.   No appeal
was taken by the City of Jacksonville. 
On July 1, 2008, the City of Jacksonville filed a first amended
complaint.  The proposed first amended
complaint asserts only a declaratory judgment claim related to the defendants 
alleged liability for tourist development taxes and/or convention development
taxes.  On July 15, 2008, the
defendants moved to dismiss and to strike the amended complaint.   On July 30, 2008, the plaintiff filed a
motion to amend its complaint.  Those
motions are pending. 

The
City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.  :  On June 2,
2008, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Middle District of Tennessee by the City of Goodlettsville and the City of
Brentwood, Tennessee on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Tennessee
political subdivisions that impose a tax on the privilege of occupancy of a
hotel or other lodging establishment.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust
enrichment and conversion.  On August 7,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  That motion is pending.  On Oct. 2, 2008, the City of Brentwood,
Tennessee voluntarily dismissed its claims, and the case will proceed with the
City of Goodlettsville as the sole plaintiff. 

The
Township of Lyndhurst, New Jersey v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.  :  On June 18,
2008, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey by the Township of Lyndhurst on behalf of itself and
a putative class of New Jersey political subdivisions that impose hotel
occupancy taxes.   In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, conversion, a
constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment. 
On August 19, 2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  That motion is pending. 

County
of  Monroe, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc.
et al   : On January 12,
2009, the County filed a purported class action complaint in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Florida. In addition to claims with
respect to the application of the Tourist Development Tax, the complaint also
asserted claims for conversion and unjust enrichment. The defendants have not
yet answered the complaint.  

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings
described above.  

36  

Table
of Contents   

Actions Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities and Counties   

Several
cities, counties, municipalities and other political subdivisions across the
country have filed actions relating to the collection of hotel occupancy taxes
against us and other defendants, including, but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com
LLC and Travelweb LLC, both of which are our subsidiaries, and Hotels.com,
L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.; Cheaptickets, Inc.; Cendant
Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.; Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork
Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.;
Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP;
and Travelnow.com, Inc.  In each,
the complaint alleges, among other things, that each of these defendants
violated each jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax ordinance with
respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes under each
ordinance.  Each complaint typically
seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law,
attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such
actions include:  

City
of Findlay v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al   and  City of Columbus, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al. :  On October 25, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Common Pleas Court of Hancock County, Ohio by
the City of Findlay on behalf of itself and a putative class of Ohio cities,
counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes on
lodging.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for violation of the Ohio Consumer Sales Practices
Act, conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On November 22, 2005, we and certain
other defendants removed this action to the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Ohio. On July 26, 2006, the court granted defendants 
motion to dismiss the Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 8, 2006, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio by the cities of Columbus and Dayton on behalf of themselves
and a putative class of Ohio cities, counties and townships.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, money had and received, conversion,
a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  .  On July 10,
2007, defendants  motion to transfer the case to the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio, where the  City of
Findlay  case is pending was granted. 
On July 23, 2007, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss
the plaintiffs  Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and denied defendants 
motion to dismiss the remaining claims. 
On August 2, 2007, the City of Findlay filed a motion seeking leave
to amend its complaint to withdraw its allegations seeking to assert claims on
behalf of a state-wide class of Ohio cities, counties and townships that have
enacted occupancy or excise taxes on lodging. 
On August 15, 2007, the court granted that motion and an amended
complaint withdrawing those class allegations was filed.  On August 31, 2007, the defendants
answered the  City of Columbus  complaint.  On September 4, 2007, the defendants
answered the  City of Findlay  amended
complaint.  On November 6, 2007, the
parties  joint motion to consolidate the  City of Findlay 
action with the  City of Columbus  action for
pre-trial purposes, was granted.  On February 19,
2008, the cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay moved to amend their
respective complaints to drop all class action allegations and to add nine
additional Ohio municipalities as plaintiffs. 
That motion was granted on February 27, 2008, and the plaintiffs 
first amended consolidated complaint was filed that day.  On March 26, 2008, the defendants moved
to dismiss the first amended consolidated complaint.  On June 19, 2008, the court denied the
defendants  motion.  On July 3,
2008, the defendants answered the first amended consolidated complaint.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

City
of Chicago, Illinois v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al  .:  On November 1,
2005, the City of Chicago, Illinois filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, imposition of
a constructive trust, and a demand for a legal accounting.  On January 31, 2006, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On September 27,
2007, the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On November 2, 2007, the defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
currently conducting discovery. 

37  

Table
of Contents   

City
of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.  :  On February 9,
2006, the City of San Diego, California filed a complaint in Superior Court for
the County of San Diego, California.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition
claims under Section 17200.  On March 31,
2006, the defendants filed with a petition to coordinate this matter with the  City of Los Angeles  case (discussed above).  On July 12, 2006, that petition was
granted, and, as a result, this case was coordinated with the  City of Los Angeles  action and will proceed in the Superior
Court of Los Angeles.  As discussed
above, on March 1, 2007, the court denied defendants  previously-filed
demurrers to the City of Los Angeles  Second Amended Complaint on misjoinder
grounds, which the parties deemed applicable to the City of San Diego s
complaint.  On January 17, 2007, the
defendants filed demurrers to the City of San Diego s complaint on all issues
other than misjoinder of defendants and claims. 
On March 8, 2007, the City of San Diego filed an amended
complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the
defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss the amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s amended complaint without
prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City is presently
conducting those administrative procedures. 

City
of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.  :  On March 29,
2006, the City of Atlanta, Georgia filed a complaint in the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for a declaratory judgment,
conversion, unjust enrichment, a constructive trust and a demand for an
equitable accounting.  On June 5,
2006, certain defendants, including us and our subsidiaries, answered the
complaint.  The parties proceeded to
conduct discovery.  On October 12,
2006, as directed by the court, the defendants submitted briefs regarding the
City of Atlanta s failure to exhaust the administrative remedies dictated by
Georgia law and its own ordinance.  On December 12,
2006, the court dismissed the City of Atlanta s action for lack of jurisdiction
because the City of Atlanta failed to exhaust mandatory administrative remedies
prior to bringing suit.  On January 10,
2007, the City of Atlanta filed a notice of appeal to the court s order
deciding it lacked jurisdiction.  On October 26,
2007, the Georgia Court of Appeals affirmed the order of the Georgia Superior
Court.  On November 5, 2007, the
City moved for reconsideration of the October 26, 2007 opinion, and that
motion was denied on November 13, 2007. 
On December 10, 2007, the City filed a petition for certiorari with
the Georgia Supreme Court. On May 20, 2008, the Georgia Supreme Court
granted certiorari to certain questions raised by plaintiff from the October 26,
2007 decision of the Georgia Court of Appeals affirming the dismissal of this
action.   On September 8, 2008, the
Georgia Supreme Court heard the plaintiff s appeal from the October 26,
2007 decision of the Georgia Court of Appeals affirming the dismissal of this
action.  We are awaiting the decision of
the Georgia Supreme Court. 

City
of Charleston, South Carolina v. Hotel.com, et al.  :  On April 26,
2006, the City of Charleston, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of
Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, a constructive trust and a demand for a
legal accounting.  On May 31, 2006,
defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the
District of South Carolina, Charleston Division.  On July 7, 2006, the defendants answered
the complaint.  On January 23, 2007,
the City of Charleston moved to amend the complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.   On April 23, 2007, the court granted
plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and plaintiff amended its
complaint to assert such claims on May 14, 2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court granted
defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  Town of
Mount Pleasant  (discussed below). 
On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the amended
complaint.  On November 5, 2007, the
court denied that motion.  The parties
are currently conducting discovery. 

Town
of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, et al.  :  On May 23,
2006, the Town of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court
of Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On July 21, 2006, the defendants removed
the case to the United States District Court for the District of South
Carolina, Charleston Division.  On September 15,
2006, the defendants answered the  

38  

Table
of Contents   

complaint.  On January 22, 2007, the Town of Mount
Pleasant moved to amend the complaint to assert claims arising under the South
Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.  On April 23,
2007, the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to
assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and
plaintiff amended its complaint to assert such claims on May 14,
2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court
granted defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  City of Charleston  (discussed above).  On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the court denied that motion.  On November 30,
2007, the defendants answered the amended complaint.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery.  

City
of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On August 28,
2006, the City of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the
Court of Common Pleas, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On October 27, 2006, we and certain
other defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the
District of South Carolina, Florence Division. 
On December 1, 2006, the defendants filed their motion to dismiss
the complaint.  On September 30,
2007, the court denied that motion.  On January 29,
2008, the City of North Myrtle Beach moved to amend its complaint to assert
claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.   On June 25, 2008, the court granted the
plaintiff s motion to amend its complaint to assert claims arising under the
South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act. 
On August 1, 2008, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint
asserting claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices
Act.  On August 15, 2008, the
defendants answered the amended complaint. 
The parties are currently conducting discovery. 

Wake
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.; Dare County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al and
Buncombe County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al  :  On November 3,
2006, Wake County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of
Justice, Superior Court Division, Wake County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy
Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq. ,
and breach of agency duties and statutory penalties. On January 31, 2007,
the defendants moved to dismiss this action. 
On February 1, 2007, the defendants moved to designate the case as
a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina
Business Court, to which plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to
the Business Court.   On January 26,
2007, Dare County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court alleging
the same claim.  On February 1,
2007, Buncombe County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court.  The Buncombe complaint seeks a declaratory
judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes, as well as
supplemental relief including, without limitation, an accounting and a
determination of the amount of taxes due but unpaid.  On April 4, 2007, the  Wake County, Buncombe County and Dare County  actions were
consolidated for pre-trial purposes, and the following discussion applies to
all four actions.  On May 7, 2007,
the defendants moved to dismiss the  Dare County and Buncombe
County  actions.  On November 19,
2007, the court granted in part and denied in part the motions to dismiss the
three actions.  The court dismissed all
claims for conversion, all claim for violation of North Carolina General
Statute   75-1, et seq.  The remaining
claims brought by the other three plaintiffs survived the defendants  motions.  The 
parties are currently conducting discovery. 

City
of Branson v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.  :  On December 28, 2006, the
City of Branson, Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Greene
County, Missouri.  In addition to the
claim for Tourism Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory
judgment, conversion and a legal accounting. 
On April 23, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint,
and that motion was denied on November 26, 2007.  The defendants answered the complaint on December 20,
2007.  The parties are presently
conducting discovery. 

Horry
County, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On February 2,
2007, Horry County, South Carolina and the Horry County Administrator filed a
complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment
that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and that the plaintiffs are
entitled to other relief, including penalties and interest.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.  On March 18,
2008, the court denied the defendants  motion  

39  

Table
of Contents   

to
dismiss.  On May 9, 2008, the
defendants answered the complaint.  On August 14,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the plaintiff s declaratory judgment
claims, and that motion was denied on September 17, 2008.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery.  

City
of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  : On February 2, 2007, the City of
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas,
Horry County.  The complaint seeks a
declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and
that the plaintiff is entitled to other relief, including penalties and
interest.  On April 23, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On December 11, 2007, the court heard argument on that motion,
along with the motion in the Horry County action (discussed above). On August 14,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the plaintiff s declaratory judgment
claims, and that motion was denied on September 17, 2008.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

City
of Houston, Texas v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.  :  On March 5, 2007, the City of
Houston, Texas filed a petition (i.e., a complaint) in the District Court
of Harris County, Texas.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
Houston hotel occupancy tax ordinance, the petition also asserted claims
for conversion, constructive trust, civil conspiracy, and a legal
accounting.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants filed special
exceptions, seeking to dismiss the petition.  On July 5, 2007,
the court denied in part and granted in part the defendants  special
exceptions.  The court denied the special exceptions relating to the
adequacy of the plaintiff s allegations, but granted the special exceptions
requiring the plaintiff to state with specificity the maximum amount of damages
claimed.  On October 2, 2007, the City of Houston filed an
amended petition adding the Harris County Sports Authority as a
plaintiff.  On October 15, 2007, we and the other defendants filed
renewed special exceptions to the complaint and affirmative defenses.  On November 19,
2007, the court granted those special exceptions. On January 22, 2008, the
plaintiffs filed a second amended petition.  On February 4, 2008, we
and the defendants filed renewed special exceptions to the petition and moved
to dismiss the action.  On March 13, 2008, the court granted the
defendants  special exceptions and dismissed the action.  On April 14,
2008, the plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to have their petition reinstated,
which was granted on May 27, 2008. 

City
of Oakland, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On June 29,
2007, the City of Oakland, California filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
City of Oakland s Transient Tax Ordinance, the complaint also asserted unfair
competition claims under California Business and Professions Code   17200,  et seq. , and claims for conversion, unjust enrichment,
punitive damages, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On September 18, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On November 6,
2007, the court granted the defendants  motion and dismissed the City of
Oakland s complaint with prejudice for the City s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On December 5, 2007, the City of Oakland
filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The plaintiff s appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
remains pending.  On July 16, 2008,
we and Lowestfare.com LLC received audit notices from the City.  On August 4, 2008, we and Lowestfare.com
LLC responded and requested a hearing before the City s Business Tax Board of
Review.  That hearing request remains
pending. 

Mecklenburg
County v. Hotels.com LP, et al.  :  On January 14, 2008,
Mecklenburg County filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior
Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for room occupancy
taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an injunction,
conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting, violation of
North Carolina General Statute   75-1, et seq., and breach of agency duties and
statutory penalties.  At the time it
filed the complaint, Mecklenburg also moved to designate the case as a complex
business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Business
Court.  On February 19, 2008, this
action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above. 
On May 15, 2008, the court granted in part and denied in part the
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint, adopting the reasoning of the
court s prior opinion on the motion to dismiss in the  Wake County 
action. 

40  

Table
of Contents   

City
of Baltimore, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.  :  On December 10,
2008, the City filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the
District of Maryland.  In addition to
claims for declaratory and injunctive relief with respect to the application of
the City s Hotel Room Tax, the complaint also asserted claims for
conversion, unjust enrichment, assumpsit, constructive trust, and punitive
damages.  The defendants have not yet
answered the complaint. 

County
Commissioners of Worcester, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.  :  On January 6,
2009, the County filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the
District of Maryland.  In addition to the
claim for violation of the County s Hotel Room Tax, the complaint also
asserted claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and assumpsit.  The defendants have not yet answered the
complaint. 

We
have also been informed by counsel to the plaintiffs in certain of the
aforementioned actions that various, undisclosed municipalities or taxing
jurisdictions may file additional cases against us, Lowestfare.com LLC and
Travelweb LLC in the future.  Some
municipalities or taxing jurisdictions have sent us and/or our subsidiaries tax
notices or demands, including Brunswick County and Stanly County, North
Carolina; Jefferson County, Arkansas; City of North Little Rock, Arkansas; and
the Pine Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission.  

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings
described above.  

Judicial Actions Relating to Assessments Issued by Individual Cities
and Counties   

After
administrative remedies have been exhausted, we may seek judicial review of
assessments issued by an individual city or county.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
et al. v. Broward County, Florida  :  In May 2008, we and
Travelweb LLC received assessments from the County.  On June 19, 2008, we and Travelweb LLC
submitted formal protests of the assessments. 
In July 2008, we and Travelweb LLC received additional audit
requests from the County.  On November 13,
2008, our and Travelweb LLC s protests were denied.  On January 13, 2009, we and Travelweb
LLC filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and for
Leon County, Florida, against the County and the Florida Department of Revenue
challenging the assessments.  The County
and the Department of Revenue answered and filed a counterclaim on February 2,
2009.  In addition to claims for
injunctive relief with respect to the County s tourist development tax, the
counterclaim also asserted claims for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion and
statutory civil theft.  The counterclaim
defendants have not yet answered the counterclaim. 

Priceline.com
Inc. et al. v. City of Anaheim et al.   :  In May 2008, we, Travelweb LLC and
Lowestfare.com LLC received assessments from the City.  On June 2, 2008, the
companies submitted formal protests of the assessments.  On February 6, 2009, the City-appointed
hearing officer issued a ruling upholding the determination that the companies
were liable for the Transient Occupancy Tax, but reducing the amounts of the
assessments issued.  On February 11 2009,
we and Travelweb LLC filed suit in Superior Court of the State of California,
County of Orange, against the City and the hearing officer challenging the
assessments and the liability determination. 
On February 18, 2009, we and Travelweb LLC joined a motion filed by
Expedia, Inc. seeking a ruling that we do not have to pay the amount assessed
by the City until resolution of the matter by the courts.  

We
intend to prosecute vigorously our claims in these actions.  

Consumer Class Actions   

Two
purported class actions brought by consumers were pending against us:  

Marshall,
et al. v. priceline.com, Inc.  :  On February 17, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
Delaware for New Castle County by Jeanne Marshall and three other individuals
on behalf of themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated
consumers nationwide against us.  The
complaint alleged that we violated the Delaware Consumer Fraud 

41  

Table of Contents   

Act,
Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6,   2511,  et seq. ,
relating to our disclosures and charges to customers to cover taxes under city
hotel occupancy tax ordinances nationwide, and service fees.  We moved to dismiss the complaint on April 21,
2005.  On June 10, 2005, plaintiffs
filed an amended complaint that asserts claims under the Delaware Consumer
Fraud Act and for breach of contract and the implied duty of good faith and
fair dealing.  On October 31, 2006,
the court granted in part and denied in part our motion to dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims arising under
the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.  The
court also dismissed all claims for breach of contract and the implied duty of
good faith and fair dealing that relate to our charges for service fees.  The court denied our motion to dismiss the
breach of contract and implied duty of good faith and fair dealing claims as
they relate to our charges to consumers to cover taxes under city hotel occupancy
tax ordinances.  On February 1, 2008,
two of the four plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against us.  On February 29, 2008, the remaining
plaintiffs moved for leave to amend their complaint to assert additional claims
for breach of contract and the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing
alleging that we included a hidden fee within its room rate charge.  On August 28, 2008, the court granted
plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend. 
The plaintiffs filed their second amended complaint on September 12,
2008, and we answered that complaint on September 26, 2008.  The parties  summary judgment motions have
been submitted and a hearing was held in January 2009; we are awaiting the
court s ruling.  

Chiste,
et al. v. priceline.com Inc., et al.  :  On December 11, 2008, a
putative class action was filed by plaintiff Matthew R. Chiste and two other
individuals on behalf of themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly
situated consumers nationwide against us, Lowestfare.com, Inc. and
Travelweb, LLC.  The complaint alleges
the defendants overcharge consumers by collecting Hotel Occupancy and sales
taxes over and above that necessary to pay the actual taxes on the hotel room
reserved by the customer.  The complaint
asserts claims for deceptive business practices, declaratory and injunctive
relief, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of contract.  Defendants have not yet answered the
complaint. 

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings
described above.  

Administrative Proceedings and Other Possible Actions   

At
various times we have also received inquiries or proposed tax assessments from
municipalities and other taxing jurisdictions relating to our charges and
remittance of amounts to cover state and local hotel occupancy and other
related taxes.  Among others, the City of
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Miami-Dade County, Florida; the City of Anaheim,
California; the City of Phoenix, Arizona; the City of San Francisco,
California; and state tax officials from Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Indiana,
have begun formal or informal administrative procedures or stated that they may
assert claims against us relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel
occupancy or related taxes.  The City of
San Francisco, California, and the Indiana Department of Revenue have each
issued assessments from which we intend to appeal to a court of competent
jurisdiction.  

Litigation
Related to Securities Matters   

On March 16, March 26, April 27, and June 5, 2001,
respectively, four putative class action complaints were filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York naming priceline.com, Inc.,
Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter  
Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston
Robertson Stephens, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants
(01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576, 01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).  Shives  et
al . v. Bank of America Securities LLC  et al ., 01 Civ. 4956, also names other defendants and states
claims unrelated to us.  The complaints
allege, among other things, that priceline.com and the individual defendants
violated the federal securities laws by issuing and selling priceline.com
common stock in priceline.com s March 1999 initial public offering without
disclosing to investors that some of the underwriters in the offering,
including the lead underwriters, had allegedly solicited and received excessive
and undisclosed commissions from certain investors.  By Orders of Judge Mukasey and Judge  

42  

Table of Contents   

Scheindlin dated August 8, 2001, these cases were consolidated for
pre-trial purposes with hundreds of other cases, which contain allegations
concerning the allocation of shares in the initial public offerings of
companies other than priceline.com, Inc. 
By Order of Judge Scheindlin dated August 14, 2001, the following
cases were consolidated for all purposes: 
01 Civ. 2261; 01 Civ. 2576; and 01 Civ. 3590.  On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs filed a
Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint in these cases.  This Consolidated Amended Class Action
Complaint makes similar allegations to those described above but with respect
to both our March 1999 initial public offering and our August 1999
second public offering of common stock. 
The named defendants are priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock,
Jay S. Walker, Paul E. Francis, Nancy B. Peretsman, Timothy G. Brier, Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Goldman Sachs   Co., Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., Robertson Stephens, Inc.
(as successor-in-interest to BancBoston), Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. (as
successor-in-interest to Donaldson Lufkin   Jenrette Securities
Corp.), Allen   Co., Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc.  Priceline.com, Richard Braddock, Jay Walker,
Paul Francis, Nancy Peretsman, and Timothy Brier, together with other issuer
defendants in the consolidated litigation, filed a joint motion to dismiss on July 15,
2002.  On November 18, 2002, the
cases against the individual defendants were dismissed without prejudice and
without costs.  In addition, counsel for
plaintiffs and the individual defendants executed Reservation of Rights and
Tolling Agreements, which toll the statutes of limitations on plaintiffs 
claims against those individuals.  On February 19,
2003, Judge Scheindlin issued an Opinion and Order granting in part and denying
in part the issuer s motion.  None of the
claims against us were dismissed.  On June 26,
2003, counsel for the plaintiff class announced that they and counsel for the
issuers had agreed to the form of a Memorandum of Understanding (the
 Memorandum ) to settle claims against the issuers.  The terms of that Memorandum provide that
class members will be guaranteed $1 billion in recoveries by the insurers of
the issuers and that settling issuer defendants will assign to the class
members certain claims that they may have against the underwriters.  Issuers also agree to limit their abilities
to bring certain claims against the underwriters.  If recoveries in excess of $1 billion are
obtained by the class from any non-settling defendants, the settling
defendants  monetary obligations to the class plaintiffs will be satisfied; any
amount recovered from the underwriters that is less than $1 billion will be
paid by the insurers on behalf of the issuers. 
The Memorandum, which is subject to the approval of each issuer, was
approved by a special committee of the priceline.com Board of Directors on
Thursday, July 3, 2003.  Thereafter,
counsel for the plaintiff class and counsel for the issuers agreed to the form
of a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement with Defendant Issuers and
Individuals ( Settlement Agreement ). 
The Settlement Agreement implements the Memorandum and contains the same
material provisions.  On June 11,
2004, a special committee of the priceline.com Board of Directors authorized
our counsel to execute the Settlement Agreement on behalf of us.  The Settlement Agreement was submitted to the
Court for approval.  Subsequently, the
Second Circuit reversed the District Court s granting of class certification in
certain of the related class actions.  As
a result, the parties entered into a stipulation and order dated June 25,
2007 which terminated the Settlement Agreement. 
We intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of these
proceedings.  

On May 3, 2007, we entered into a
Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement ( Settlement Agreement ) to settle a
class action lawsuit brought after our announcement that third quarter 2000
revenues would not meet expectations. 
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the class received $80
million in return for a release, with prejudice, of all claims against us and
the individual defendants (the  Settling Defendants ) that are related to the
purchase of our securities by class members during the class period.  Our insurance carriers funded $30 million of
the settlement.  As a result, we recorded
a net charge in the year ended 2007 of approximately $55.4 million
representing our share of the cost to settle the litigation and cover related
expenses.  

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings
described in this Item 3.  We have
accrued for certain legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  Except as disclosed, such amounts accrued are
not material to our consolidated balance sheets and provisions recorded have
not been material to the consolidated results of operations.  We are unable to estimate the potential
maximum range of loss.  

43  

Table
of Contents   

From time to time, we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject
to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including
claims of alleged infringement of third party intellectual property
rights.  Such claims, even if not meritorious,
could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial
resources, divert management s attention from our business objectives and could
adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows.  

Item 4. 
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders      

No matters were submitted for
a vote of stockholders of priceline.com during the fourth quarter of the year
ended December 31, 2008.  

44  

Table
of Contents   

PART II     

Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      

Price Range of Common Stock   

Our
common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol
 PCLN.   The following table sets forth,
for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the
common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market:  

Holders   

As
of February 1, 2009, there were approximately 597 stockholders of record
of priceline.com s common stock, although we believe that there are a
significantly larger number of beneficial owners.  

Dividend Policy   

We
have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock since our
inception and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable
future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the
expansion of our business.  

Equity Compensation Plan Information          Information required by Part II, Item 5, relating to Equity Compensation Plan Information will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.          Performance Measurement Comparison          The following graph shows the total stockholder return through December 31, 2008 of an investment of $100 in cash on January 1, 2004 for priceline.com common stock and an investment of $100 in cash on January 1, 2004 for (i) the NASDAQ Market Index and (ii) the Hemscott Group Index.  The Hemscott Group Index is an index of stocks representing the Internet industry, including Internet software and services companies and e-commerce companies.  Historic stock
 performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.  All values assume reinvestment of the full amount of all dividends and are calculated as of the last day of each month:         45    

Table of Contents           COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN      AMONG PRICELINE. COM INC.,      NASDAQ MARKET INDEX AND HEMSCOTT GROUP INDEX                    ASSUMES $100 INVESTED ON JAN. 1, 2004    ASSUMES DIVIDEND REINVESTED    FISCAL YEAR ENDING DEC. 31, 2008       

Sales of Unregistered Securities   

In
2008, holders of our 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes converted approximately
$125.0 million principal amount of notes into approximately 1,890,600 shares of
our common stock; holders of our 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes converted
approximately $30,000 principal amount of notes into 508 shares of our common
stock; holders of our 2011 Notes converted approximately $37.9 million
principal amount of notes into 277,946 shares of our common stock and holders
of our 2013 Notes converted approximately $14.0 million principal amount of
notes into 95,082 shares of our common stock. 
Such issuances of shares of our common stock were made under Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
See Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.   

46  

Table
of Contents   

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The following table sets forth information relating
to repurchases of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31,
2008:  

ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES    

(1)      Pursuant to
a stock repurchase program announced on November 2, 2005, whereby the
Company was authorized to repurchase up to $50,000,000 of its common stock. 

(2)      Pursuant to
a stock repurchase program announced on September 21, 2006, whereby the
Company was authorized to repurchase up to $150,000,000 of its common stock. 

(3)      Pursuant to
a general authorization, not publicly announced, whereby the Company is
authorized to repurchase shares of its common stock to satisfy employee
withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation. 

47  

Table
of Contents   

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data      

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   

The
following selected consolidated financial data presented below are derived from
our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of the Company, and
should be read in connection with those statements, some of which are included
herein.    Selected financial data
reflects data related to Agoda, Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and
Travelweb LLC from their respective acquisition dates of November 2007, July 2005,
September 2004 and May 2004. 
The information set forth bel  ow is not necessarily
indicative of future results and should be read in conjunction with Item 7,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.    

(1)       The Company recorded a $55.4 million
expense related to a litigation settlement in 2007.  

(2)       The Company recorded income tax benefits
in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, amounting to $47.9
million, $28.1 million and $170.5 million, respectively, resulting from a
reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets.  

(3)       Includes convertible debt which is
classified as a current liability as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.  

48  

Table of Contents   

Item 7.
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations      

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial
statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K, and the Section entitled  Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements  in this Form 10-K.  As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled
 Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,  this discussion contains
forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties.  Our actual results may differ materially from
the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that might cause those differences
include, but are not limited to, those discussed in  Risk Factors.     

Overview   

General   .  We are a leading online travel company that
offers our customers a broad range of travel services, including hotel rooms,
car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, cruises and destination
services.  In the United States, we offer
our customers a unique choice: the ability to purchase travel services in a
traditional, price-disclosed manner or the opportunity to use our unique  Name Your Own Price       service, which allows our customers to make
offers for travel services at discounted prices.  Internationally, we offer our customers hotel
room reservations in 75 countries and 27 languages.  

We launched our business in
the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded
our operations to include, among others, the brands Booking.com and Active
Hotels in Europe and Agoda in Asia.  Our
principal goal is to be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation
service.  At present, we derive
substantially all of our revenues from the following sources:  

Transaction
revenues from our Name Your Own Price  hotel room, rental car and airline
ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service;  

Commissions
earned from the sale of price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental cars, cruises and
other travel services;  

Customer
processing fees charged in connection with the sale of both  Name Your Own Price       and price-disclosed hotel rooms and  Name Your Own Price       airline tickets and rental car services.  We eliminated processing fees for our
price-disclosed airline ticket service in June 2007;  

Transaction
revenue from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room service;  

Global
distribution system ( GDS ) reservation booking fees related to both our  Name Your Own Price       airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and  

Other revenues
derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.  

Over
the last several years, our business has transitioned from one driven primarily
by domestic results to one driven primarily by international results.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our
revenues were generated within the United States.  In September 2004, we acquired
Booking.com Limited, a U.K.-based online hotel service; in July 2005, we
acquired Booking.com B.V., a Netherlands-based online hotel service (together with Booking.com Limited,
 Booking.com  and in November 2007, we acquired priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an online hotel service with operations in
Singapore and Thailand ( Agoda ).  During
the year ended December 31, 2008, our international business   the
significant majority of which is currently generated by our European operations
  represented approximately 58.4% of our gross bookings (an operating and
statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes
and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and contributed
more than two-thirds of our consolidated operating income.  Given that our international business is
primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, revenue earned   

49  

Table of Contents   

in
connection with the reservation of hotel room nights has come to represent a
substantial majority of our gross profit.  

Worldwide recession  is negatively affecting the broad travel market and, as a result, our
business.  Most recently, global economic
and financial market conditions have worsened markedly, creating uncertainty
for consumers and pressuring consumer spending on travel.  For example, hotel operators have recently
reported significant decreases in occupancy rates (a common metric that
measures hotel customer usage) and average daily rates ( ADRs ) in both the
United States and Europe.  We believe
that the positive trends impacting our domestic and international business
overshadowed these negative influences in 2008. 
However, market conditions have worsened significantly recently, with
particular deterioration in the fourth quarter 2008, and continuing into 2009.
We believe worldwide recession and these
weakening travel market trends, including, without limitation, decreased
consumer demand, further deterioration in ADRs and increases in cancellations,
have had a negative impact on our business, particularly in Europe, and will
continue to have a negative impact in the near term.  We cannot predict the magnitude or duration
of this worldwide recession, but our
current limited visibility does not suggest any near-term improvement. 

The
hotel industry has recently experienced a significant decrease in occupancy
rates and we have experienced slowing demand growth, an increase in reservation
cancellation rates and declining ADRs   trends which have continued to
deteriorate and for which we do not anticipate any near-term improvement.  While lower occupancy rates have historically
resulted in hotel suppliers increasing their distribution of hotel rooms
through third-party intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for hotel
transactions changes proportionately with room price, and therefore, lower ADRs
generally have a negative effect on our hotel business and a negative effect on
our gross profit.  

We
believe the current worldwide recession and
lower ADRs are also responsible for the increase in the number of hotel
cancellations, particularly at our international operations.  Our international operations distribute hotel rooms primarily through an agency model where
reservations are generally cancellable, as opposed to merchant models operated
by us (principally in the U.S.) and our competition and through which
reservations are generally not cancellable without penalty.  As ADRs decline, customers who have existing
reservations may cancel those reservations and rebook at a lower rate, and in
times of economic stress, travelers are more likely to cancel their vacation
plans outright.  While decreasing ADRs
and a worldwide recession make it relatively more attractive for consumers to
make a cancellable agency reservation than a pre-paid reservation, our agency
business will likely have higher cancellation rates compared to companies who
offer predominantly merchant model hotel rooms.  

International Trends  .  The size of the travel market
outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the
United States.  Historically, Internet
adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed
those of the United States.  However,
international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing
travel.  Accordingly, recent
international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are
expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  In addition, the base of hotel suppliers in
Europe is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where
the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains.  We believe online reservation systems like
ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly
found outside of the United States.  We
believe these trends have enabled us to become the top online hotel service
provider in Europe, and will allow us to successfully expand our service
offerings internationally beyond Europe. 

As
our international operations have become significant contributors to our
results and international hotel bookings have become of increased importance to
our earnings, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in certain
of our operating expenses and other financial metrics.  For example, because our international
operations utilize online affiliate and search marketing as the principal means
of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has increased
significantly since our acquisition of those companies, a trend we expect to
continue in 2009 and beyond.  In
addition,   

50  

Table
of Contents   

and
as discussed in more detail below, since the acquisitions of Booking.com, we
have seen the effects of seasonal fluctuations on our operating results change
as a result of different revenue recognition policies that apply to our price-disclosed
services (including our international hotel service) as compared to our  Name Your Own Price      services. 

Another
impact of the growing importance that our international operations represent to
our business is our increased exposure to foreign currency exchange risk.  Because we are conducting a significant and
growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our
results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency
exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are
translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound
Sterling) into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. 
Our international operations contributed approximately $619.8 million to
our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, which compares to
$372.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.  Approximately $11.3 million of this increase
is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  As a result, our year-over-year revenue
growth in the year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately 63.3% on a
local currency basis compared to approximately 66.4% after giving effect to
currency fluctuations.  The U.S. dollar
has generally weakened since we acquired Booking.com B.V. in July 2005,
and as a result, the year over year growth rates in our international results,
when reported in U.S. dollars, have been positively impacted by changes in
foreign exchange rates.  However, the
U.S. dollar has recently strengthened significantly against the Euro and the
British Pound Sterling, which results in decreased net assets, revenues,
operating expenses, and net income, and in October 2008, for the first
time since our acquisition of Booking.com B.V., the foreign exchange impact was
negative rather than positive. 
Accordingly, it will become increasingly difficult for us to grow our
gross bookings, revenues and earnings on a U.S. dollar-denominated basis during
2009 and beyond if the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen.  If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local
currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated balances will
result in increased net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses,
and net income.  The impact of short-term
currency fluctuations on our income for the year ended December 31, 2008
was minimized by certain derivatives we held. 
As of December 31, 2008, derivatives with a notional value of 25.0
million Euros were outstanding.  As of December 31,
2007, derivatives with notional values of 16.0 million Euros and 3.7 million
British Pounds Sterling were outstanding. 
Furthermore, our derivative instruments are not designed to hedge
against currency fluctuation that could impact our foreign currency denominated
gross bookings.  

Domestic Trends  . 
While demand for online travel services continues to experience
annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party
distributors, like priceline.com, has declined over the recent past and that
the growth of the domestic online market for travel services has slowed.  We believe the decline in market share is
attributable, in part, to a concerted initiative by travel suppliers to direct
customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses
and establish more direct control over their pricing. 

In
addition, recent decreases in domestic airline capacity and the emerging
prospect of industry consolidation, as evidenced by the recent merger agreement
between Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, could further reduce the amount
of airline tickets available to us.  Furthermore, we have recently observed a sharp
decline in passenger traffic and airfares across the airline industry, and we
believe the airlines are experiencing significant year-over-year declines in
yield, all of which we believe is principally due to the worldwide
recession.  Decreases in capacity
and lower traveler demand negatively impact our domestic air business, which in
turn has negative repercussions on our domestic hotel and rental car
businesses.  In addition, the current worldwide recession is partially responsible
for a change in the arrangements between rental car companies and automobile
manufacturers.  Where manufacturers have
historically supplied cars to rental car companies under a lease or another arrangement
whereby the manufacturer would buy the car back when it is taken out of the
fleet, manufacturers have begun to require the rental car companies to purchase
the cars for their fleets, which shifts the burden of risk of selling the car
to the rental car company.  Because of
the worldwide recession, rental car
companies have struggled to sell such cars, and as a result, they are faced
with excess supply.  This, along with an
intensely competitive environment, leads to lower retail rental car rates,
which in turn, are beneficial to   

51  

Table
of Contents   

our
retail rental car business, but detrimental to our  Name Your
Own Price      business.   
Notwithstanding these trends, we continue to believe that the market for
domestic online travel services is an attractive market with continued
opportunity for growth. 

We also rely on fees paid to
us by global distribution systems, or GDSs, for travel bookings made through
GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and operating income.  Connectivity to a GDS does not guarantee us
access to the content of a travel supplier such as an airline or hotel company.  We have agreements with a number of suppliers
to obtain access to content, and are in continuing discussions with others to
obtain similar access.  If we were denied
access to a suppliers  full content or had to incur service fees in order to
access or book such content, our results could suffer.  

We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to
maintain profitability, primarily from our hotel business, to continue to
promote the priceline.com brand in the United States, the Booking.com brand
internationally, the Agoda brand in Asia and, over time, to offer other travel
services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond
our control, such as worldwide recession, terrorist
attacks, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices,
imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related
accidents, travel related health concerns, unusual weather patterns, including
natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes; or the
withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could
adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability
to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above.  For example, recent
civil unrest during the peak booking season in Thailand, a key market for our
Agoda business, negatively impacted booking volumes and future civil or
political unrest would further disrupt Agoda s business.  We intend to continue to invest in marketing
and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with
attempts to improve operating results. 
We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we
explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other
things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to improve volume and sustain
gross margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment
described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult,
and accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will sustain revenue
growth and profitability.  

Seasonality  .  Our  Name Your Own Price     services are generally
non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the
time a booking is generated.  However, we
recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including our
international operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the
hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount
of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and
reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized as revenue
until future quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the
substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which
is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  Therefore, as our retail hotel business
continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly
impacted by these seasonal factors. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are
based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in
Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting
policies are particularly important to our financial position and results of
operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as
a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently
uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to
determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of
certain estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including
those related to the items described below. Those estimates are based on, among
other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our
observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions
that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results
may differ from these estimates under different   

52  

Table
of Contents   

assumptions or conditions.  A
summary of our significant accounting policies that involve significant
estimates and judgments of management, including the following:  

Deferred
Tax Valuation Allowance   .  As
required by SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  we periodically
evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce
the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to
the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors
when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets,
including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction,
expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available to us for tax
reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. 
Based upon management s assessment of positive and negative evidence, we
recorded non-cash tax benefits in 2007 and 2006 of $47.9 million and $28.1
million, respectively, resulting from a reversal of a portion of our valuation
allowance on our deferred tax assets. 
Despite robust growth in the Company s domestic earnings during 2008,
the valuation allowance has not been reduced due to inherent uncertainty and
the likely negative potential impact the worldwide
recession will have on our future operating results and future
realization of our deferred tax assets.  

Stock-Based
Compensation.     We record
stock-based compensation expense over the service period based upon the grant
date fair value of equity-based grants. 
We estimate forfeiture rates in determining the amount of compensation
to record.  In addition, we record
stock-based compensation expense for grants that include a performance
contingency based upon the estimated probable outcome at the end of the
performance period.  We periodically
adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when estimated
forfeiture rates are adjusted, or when the probable outcome for
performance-based shares is updated based upon changes in facts and
circumstances.  

Accounting
for State and Local  Hotel Occupancy  Taxes   .  As discussed in Note 18 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, several jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against many
on-line travel companies, including us, alleging among other things, that sales
or hotel occupancy tax is applicable to the differential between the price paid
by a customer for our service and the cost of the underlying room. In addition,
a number of jurisdictions have initiated audit proceedings against us
purportedly to determine whether taxes are owed on this differential or issued
assessments claiming that we owe tax on this differential for prior
periods.  Additional state and local
jurisdictions could assert that we are subject to sales or hotel occupancy
taxes on this differential and could seek to collect such taxes, either
retroactively or prospectively, or both. Historically, we have not collected
taxes on this differential. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in
asserting that a tax collection responsibility applies to transactions
conducted through the priceline.com service, we might have additional tax
exposures. We accrue for legal contingencies where it is probable that a
loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  

Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts.     Because we act
as merchant of record in the majority of our transactions, we may be held
liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our website as well as other
payment disputes with our customers. Additionally, we are also held liable for
accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not
act as merchant of record. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance
for the resulting credit card charge-backs. In addition, in connection with
hotel agency transactions, we provide an allowance for doubtful accounts based
on past experience, current trends and the age of commissions receivable.  

53  

Table
of Contents   

Valuation
of Goodwill   .  We have
recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired including Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited, Travelweb, Agoda and priceline.com europe Ltd.
Goodwill is   reviewed at least annually for impairment using appropriate valuation
techniques.  In the event that future
circumstances indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an
impairment charge would be recorded.  

Valuation
of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles.     We evaluate
whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying
amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired or not
recoverable. The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an
impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or
the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or
expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic
trends.  In evaluating an asset for
possible impairment, management estimates that asset s future undiscounted cash
flows to measure whether the asset is recoverable. If it is determined that the
asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based on the projected
discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life.  

Airline
Debit Memos.    Our airline suppliers periodically send us debit
memos that make claims for additional amounts due to them related to the cost
of airline tickets we sold on their behalf. 
We process the debit memos received and, when appropriate, make payments
to the airlines.  Based on our historical
experience and our contractual arrangements with the airlines, we establish
reserves for estimated losses when appropriate resulting from these claims.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements     On January 1, 2008,
we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements 
( SFAS 157 ), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures
about fair value measurements. The adoption
of SFAS 157 did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.  See Note 7 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding fair value
measurements. 

In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position No. SFAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 
( FSP FAS 157-2 ).  FSP
FAS 157-2 defers the effective date of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial
assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or
disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at
least annually), to fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal
years, beginning after November 15, 2008. 
We do not expect a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements for adoption of this Statement for nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities.  

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an Amendment of FASB Statement
133  ( SFAS 161 ).  SFAS 161 provides new
disclosure requirements for an entity s derivative and hedging activities.  SFAS 161 is effective for periods beginning
after November 15, 2008.  We will
comply with the expanded reporting requirements beginning in the first quarter
of 2009.  

In
April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142-3,
 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets  ( FSP FAS 142-3 ).  In determining the useful life of acquired
intangible assets, FSP FAS 142-3 removes the requirement to consider whether an
intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost of material
modifications to the existing terms and conditions and, instead, requires an
entity to consider its own historical experience in renewing similar
arrangements. FSP FAS 142-3 also requires expanded disclosure related to the
determination of intangible asset useful lives. 
The FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2008, and may impact any intangible assets we
acquire in future transactions.  

54  

Table
of Contents   

In
May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position No. APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May be
Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  ( FSP APB
14-1 ).  FSP APB 14-1 requires cash
settled convertible debt, such as our convertible senior notes, to be separated
into debt and equity components at issuance and a value to be assigned to
each.  The value assigned to the debt
component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar
bond without the conversion feature.  The
difference between the bond cash proceeds and this estimated fair value,
representing the value assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt
discount and amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond.  In addition, if our convertible debt is
redeemed or converted prior to maturity and the fair value of the debt
component immediately prior to extinguishment is different from the carrying
value, it will result in a gain or loss on extinguishment.  Although FSP APB 14-1 will have no impact on
our actual past or future cash flows, it will require us to record a
significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is
amortized and will result in gains or losses on extinguishment that would not
have occurred under previous GAAP.  FSP
APB 14-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2008, and must be applied on a retrospective
basis.  Accordingly, commencing with the
filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31,
2009, our historical financial statements will be adjusted to give effect to
FSP APB 14-1.  We estimate that the
adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will increase non-cash interest expense for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 by approximately $26 million ($16
million net of tax), $28 million ($17 million net of tax),  and $6 million ($3.6 million net of tax),
respectively.  The estimated impact to
fiscal year 2009 non-cash interest expense is expected to be an increase of
approximately $21 million ($13 million net of tax), excluding the impact of
future debt conversions, if any.  The
Company estimates that adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will also result in a gain on
extinguishment of debt of approximately $5 million ($3 million net of tax) for
the year ended December 31, 2008.  

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No.162,  The
Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles  ( SFAS 162 ).  This Statement identifies the sources of
accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used
in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are
presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  SFAS 162 is effective November 15,
2008.  The adoption of the Statement did
not result in a change in our current practices.  

In June 2008, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task
Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 07-5,  Determining Whether an Instrument (or
Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock  ( EITF 07-5 ).  This Issue addresses the determination of
whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own
stock.   EITF 07-5 will be effective for years beginning after December 15,
2008.  We do not expect a material impact
to the financial statements for adoption of this EITF.  

In November 2008, the Emerging Issues Task
Force reached consensus on EITF Issue No. 08-7,  Accounting for Defensive
Intangible Assets  ( EITF 08-7 ).  A
defensive asset is an acquired intangible asset where the acquirer has no
intention of using, or intends to discontinue use of, the intangible asset but
holds it to prevent competitors from obtaining any benefit from it.  The acquired defensive asset will be treated
as a separate unit of accounting and the useful life assigned will be based on
the period during which the asset would diminish in value.  The consensus is effective in fiscal years
beginning on or after December 15, 2008.  

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value
Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  ( SFAS 159 ).  The standard required unrealized gains and
losses to be included in earnings for items reported using the fair value
option.  SFAS 159 permitted
companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value.  SFAS 159 was
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007.  We did not elect the fair value
option described in SFAS 159 for financial instruments and certain other items.  

55  

Table
of Contents   

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (R),  Business
Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) ). SFAS 141(R) requires an entity to
recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies,
and contingent consideration at their fair value on the acquisition date.  Subsequent changes to the estimated fair
value of contingent consideration will be reflected in earnings until the
contingency is settled.  SFAS 141(R) also
requires acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs to be expensed as
incurred rather than treated as part of the purchase price.  The adoption of SFAS 141(R) will
change our accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective
basis beginning January 1, 2009.  

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  ( SFAS 160 ).  SFAS 160 changes the accounting and
reporting for minority interests, which will be characterized as
non-controlling interests and classified as a component of equity.  SFAS 160 is effective for us on a
prospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, except for
presentation and disclosure requirements that will be applied retrospectively.  

Results of Operations   

Year Ended December 31, 2008 compared to Year Ended December 31,
2007   

Operating and Statistical Metrics    

Our financial results are driven by certain
operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel
services.  Specifically, reservations of
hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of
units purchased by our customers.  Gross
bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar
value inclusive of taxes and fees of all travel services booked by our
customers, and is widely used in the travel business.  International gross bookings reflect gross
bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated
to providing gross bookings for our international brands and operations, and
domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by
websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our
domestic operations, in each case without regard to the location of the travel
or the customer purchasing the travel.  

Gross
bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets
sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding):  

56  

Table
of Contents   

Gross
bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets
sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding):  

Gross
bookings increased by 53.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared
to the same period in 2007.  The increase
was primarily attributable to 61.4% growth in our international gross bookings,
virtually all of which relates to retail hotel room night sales (including the
$316 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates).  Domestic gross bookings increased by 43.0%,
primarily due to growth in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets (due in
part to the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007),  Name Your Own Price      hotel room nights, merchant
price-disclosed hotel room nights and  Name
Your Own Price     airline tickets. 

Agency
gross bookings increased 60.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008,
compared to the same period in 2007, due to growth in Booking.com hotel
operations and in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets due in part to
the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007.  Merchant gross bookings increased 33.5% for
the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same period in 2007, due
to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own
Price      hotel room nights, the inclusion
of room nights sold by Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007, domestic
merchant price-disclosed hotel room nights and  Name
Your Own Price     airline tickets.  Agoda gross bookings amounted to $118.7
million for the year ended December 31, 2008. 

Hotel
room nights sold increased by 46.9% for the year ended December 31, 2008,
over the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in the sale of
Booking.com agency room nights, an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price      room
nights, the inclusion of merchant room nights sold by Agoda, which we acquired
in November 2007, and an increase in the sale of domestic, price-disclosed
room nights. 

Rental
car days sold increased by 15.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008,
over the same period in 2007, due to increases in sales of both our
price-disclosed and  Name Your Own Price      rental
car services. 

Airline
tickets sold increased by 65.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008, over
the same period in 2007, due primarily to an increase in the sale of
price-disclosed airline tickets due in part to our elimination of processing
fees in June 2007 and increased marketing support.  

57  

Table
of Contents   

Revenues    

Merchant
revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and,
among other things, select suppliers and determine the price we will accept
from the customer.  Merchant revenues
include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of  Name Your Own Price     hotel rooms, rental cars and airline tickets
and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing
the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in
connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant price-disclosed
hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the
sale of  Name Your Own Price     airline tickets, hotel rooms and
rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotels; and (4) ancillary fees,
including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services
listed above. 

Agency
revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the
merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third
parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees
and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed
above and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost
of revenue. In June 2007, we eliminated processing fees on the
priceline.com price-disclosed airline ticket service. 

Other revenues
are derived primarily from advertising on our websites.  

We
continue to experience a shift in the mix of our travel business from a
business historically focused exclusively on the sale of domestic point-of-sale
travel services to a business that includes significant sales of international
point-of-sale hotel services, a significant majority of which are currently
generated in Europe.  Because our
domestic services include merchant  Name Your
Own Price      travel services, which are
reported on a  gross  basis, while both our domestic and international retail
travel services are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, revenue increases and
decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of merchant and retail
travel services and, consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly
important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  Our international operations contributed
approximately $619.8 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31,
2008, which compares to $372.6 million for the same period in 2007.  Approximately $11.3 million of this increase
is due to favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007,
accounted for approximately $17.0 million of the revenue attributable to our
international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. 

Merchant Revenues   

Merchant
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 21.5% compared to
the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price      hotel room nights and airline tickets and the
inclusion of revenues generated by Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007.  In addition, in the year ended December 31,
2007, merchant revenues were positively impacted by an excise tax refund of
$18.6 million (see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).  Our  

58  

Table
of Contents   

international
operations contributed approximately $21.3 million to our merchant revenues for
the year ended December 31, 2008, which compares to $5.6 million for the
same period in 2007.  Agoda contributed
approximately $17.0 million of the merchant revenue attributable to our
international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Agency Revenues   

Agency revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2008 increased 62.9% compared to the same period in
2007, primarily as a result of growth in our international operations, which
contributed approximately $598 million of agency revenue for the year ended December 31,
2008, and approximately $367 million of agency revenue for the year ended December 31,
2007. Approximately $11.7 million of this increase is due to favorable fluctuations
in currency exchange rates.  

Other Revenues   

Other revenues during the year ended December 31,
2008 consisted primarily of advertising revenues.  Other revenues for the year ended December 31,
2008 increased 114.1%, compared to the same period in 2007, primarily as a
result of higher online advertising revenues due primarily to new advertising
partner relationships added during 2007, increased traffic due in part to the
elimination of booking fees on price-disclosed airline tickets in June 2007,
and the inclusion of revenue generated by an online advertising company
acquired in December 2007.  

Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit    

Cost of Revenues   

For
the year ended December 31, 2008, cost of revenues consisted primarily of:
(1) the cost of  Name Your Own Price       hotel rooms from our suppliers, net of
applicable taxes, (2) the cost of  Name
Your Own Price       airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the
federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges
imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets; and (3) the cost
of  Name Your Own Price       rental cars from our suppliers, net of
applicable taxes.  Cost of revenues for
the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 20.6%, compared to the same
period in 2007, due primarily to the increase in merchant revenue discussed
above.  Merchant price-disclosed hotel
revenues in the U.S. and at Agoda are recorded in merchant revenues net of the
amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues
for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues.  

Agency
revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less
amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency
revenues.  

59  

Table of Contents   

Gross Profit   

Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased
by 49.5% compared to the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of
increased revenue discussed above.  Total
gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue)
increased during the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same
period in 2007, because  Name Your Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded
 gross  with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage
of transactions compared to retail, price-disclosed transactions which are
primarily recorded  net  with no corresponding cost of revenues.  In the year ended December 31, 2007,
gross profit and gross margin were also positively impacted by the $18.6
million excise tax refund recorded in merchant revenue in the year ended December 31,
2007 (see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).  Because  Name
Your Own Price       transactions are reported  gross  and retail
transactions are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, we believe that gross
profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our
business.  Our international operations
accounted for approximately $616 million of our gross profit for the year ended
December 31, 2008, which compares to $369.0 million for the same period in
2007.  Approximately $11.6 million of
this increase is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.   Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007,
accounted for approximately $17.0 million of the gross profit attributable to
our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Operating Expenses    

Advertising    

Offline
advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated
with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost
for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, radio and
print advertising.  For the year ended December 31,
2008, offline advertising expenses were higher than in the same period in 2007
primarily as a result of increased costs related to creative talent, television
production and increased print and radio advertising, partially offset by
decreased television advertising during the period.  Online advertising expenses primarily consist
of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate
programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail
campaigns.  For the year ended December 31,
2008, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2007,
primarily due to an increase in online advertising expenses to support
significantly increased price-disclosed agency hotel room nights booked by   

60  

Table
of Contents   

Booking.com as well as increased U.S. travel bookings.  The increase also reflects the inclusion of
online advertising expenses related to price-disclosed merchant hotel room
nights booked through Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007.  Both Booking.com and Agoda rely primarily on
online advertising, in particular keyword purchases and payments to affiliate
advertisers, to support their businesses.  

Sales and Marketing   

Sales
and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing
fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-party
service providers that operate the call centers for our priceline.com business;
(3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for
bad debt primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables.  For
the year ended December 31, 2008, sales and marketing expenses, which are
substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2007,
primarily due to (1) increased gross booking volumes; (2) increased
bad debt provision due to slower payment of agency commissions by hotels and to
reflect the potential for increased losses resulting from the   worldwide recession   and the related impact on the financial health of
our hotel partners; (3) increased credit card chargeback activity
(including chargeback activity aggregating approximately $1.5 million in the
first six months of 2008 associated with the bankruptcies of two of our airline
suppliers); and (4) the inclusion of sales and marketing expenses related
to Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007 and which has experienced
higher customer chargeback activity than our other merchant services.  

Personnel   

Personnel
expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses,
taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year
ended December 31, 2008, personnel expenses increased over the same period
in 2007, primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense, personnel
expenses associated with head count growth of Booking.com, the acquisition of
Agoda in November 2007, and increased employee performance bonus
expense.  Stock-based compensation
expense was approximately $40.5 million for the year ended December 31,
2008 and $16.3 million, for the year ended December 31, 2007.  Stock-based
compensation expense increased over the year ended December 31, 2008, as
compared to the same period in 2007, due to headcount increases, higher stock
prices at grant date and increases in the estimated probable number of shares
to be issued upon completion of specified performance periods for our performance-based
grants (see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).  

61  

Table
of Contents   

General
and Administrative   

General
and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside
professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel
related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and
administrative expenses decreased during the year ended December 31, 2008,
over the same period in 2007, due to a $55.4 million expense related to a
litigation settlement in 2007.  Excluding
the litigation settlement, general and administrative expenses increased during
the year ended December 31, 2008, over the same period during 2007, due to
additional fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses and
expenses related to the evaluation of acquisition opportunities, increased
occupancy expenses associated with new Booking.com offices, and the inclusion
of general and administrative expenses related to Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007.  

Information Technology   

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system
maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs
relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data
communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites;
and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31,
2008, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same
period in 2007 was primarily associated with the growth of Booking.com, and the
inclusion of Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007.  

Depreciation and Amortization   

62  

Table
of Contents   

Depreciation
and amortization expenses consist of:  (1) amortization
of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of
internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer
equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office
equipment and furniture and fixtures. 
For the year ended December 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization
expense increased from the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of
increased amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives,
depreciation and amortization related to investment increases in Booking.com,
and the inclusion of depreciation and amortization related to Agoda, which we
acquired in November 2007.  

Other Income (Expense)    

For
the year ended December 31, 2008, interest income on cash and marketable
securities decreased over the same period in 2007, due to lower prevailing
interest rates and investments in higher quality, lower yielding
securities.  In addition, interest income
for the year ended December 31, 2007 included approximately $3.3 million
of interest received on our excise tax refund. 
Interest expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2008, as
compared to the same period in 2007 due primarily to the conversion of
approximately $176.9 million principal amount of convertible notes.  We estimate that the adoption of FSP APB 14-1
will increase non-cash interest expense for 2009 by $21 million (see Note 2 to
our Consolidated Financial Statements). 
Foreign exchange gains of $4.3 million and losses of $3.3 million for
the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were recorded in
 Foreign currency transactions and other,  and were principally related to
foreign exchange derivative contracts. 
In addition,  Foreign currency transactions and other  includes a loss
in the amount of $0.8 million recorded during the year ended December 31,
2008 to reflect an other-than-temporary impairment in the value of a corporate
note included in long-term investments.  

Income Taxes    

The
provision for income taxes includes U.S. and international income taxes
determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate.  Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31,
2007 includes non-cash tax benefits of (1) $47.9 million, resulting from the
reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our domestic deferred tax
assets and (2) $3.6 million resulting from the recognition of foreign capital
allowance carryforwards.  In addition, our effective tax rate differs from
the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% principally
due to lower foreign tax rates and the foreign tax benefit of interest expense
on intercompany debt, partially offset by state income taxes and certain
non-deductible stock-based compensation expense.  Due to our significant net operating loss
carryforwards, we do not expect to pay significant cash taxes on our U.S.
federal taxable income for the foreseeable future.  We expect to make cash payments for
international income taxes, U.S. alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state
income taxes. Despite robust growth in the Company s domestic   

63  

Table
of Contents   

earnings
during 2008, the valuation allowance has not been reduced due to inherent
uncertainty and the likely negative potential impact the current worldwide recession will have on our future
operating results and future realization of our deferred tax assets.  

Equity in Loss of Investees and Minority Interests    

Equity
in loss of investee and minority interests for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007, represented (1) minority interests associated with the
ownership of priceline.com International that was held by former shareholders
of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, including certain European-based
managers of that business; and (2) equity in loss of investee, comprised
of our pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s net results.  The change versus the prior year was
primarily due to a reduction in the minority interest held by former shareholders
of priceline.com International, partially offset by an increase in the earnings
of priceline.com International.  In September 2008,
we repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares of priceline.com
International and, as a result, there is no longer any minority interest in
priceline.com International.  

Results of Operations   

Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared to Year Ended December 31,
2006   

Operating
Metrics    

Our financial results are
driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the selling activity
generated by our travel services. 
Specifically, sales of airline tickets, hotel room nights and rental car
days capture the volume of units purchased by our customers.  Gross Bookings capture the total dollar value
inclusive of taxes and fees of all travel services purchased by our
customers.  International gross bookings
reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by,
or dedicated to providing gross bookings for our international brands and
operations, and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated
principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross
bookings by our domestic operations, in each case without regard to the
location of the travel or the customer purchasing the travel.  

Gross
bookings resulting from airline tickets, hotel room nights and rental car days
sold through our domestic and international operations in 2007 and 2006 were as
follows:  

64  

Table
of Contents   

Gross
bookings resulting from airline tickets, hotel room nights and rental car days
sold through our agency and merchant models in 2007 and 2006 were as follows:  

Gross
bookings increased by 45.5% for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared
to the same period in 2006.  The increase
was primarily attributable to 98.6% growth in our international gross bookings,
virtually all of which relates to retail hotel room night sales (including the
$223 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates).  Domestic gross bookings increased by 9.2%,
primarily due to growth in the sale of  Name
Your Own Price      hotel room nights, retail airline tickets due
to the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007 and  Name Your Own Price     rental
car days, partially offset by a decrease in the sale of  Name Your Own Price     airline tickets. 

Agency
gross bookings increased 64.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007, due
to growth in our international hotel operations and in the sale of retail
airline tickets due to the elimination of booking fees in June 2007.  Merchant gross bookings increased 9.3% for
the year ended December 31, 2007, due to an increase n the sale of  Name Your Own Price      hotel
room nights and an increase in the sale of  Name
Your Own Price     rental car days, partially
offset by a decrease in the sale of  Name
Your Own Price     airline tickets. 

Hotel
room nights sold increased by 48.9% for the year ended December 31, 2007,
over the same period in 2006, primarily due to an increase in the sale of
agency room nights in connection with our international operations as well as
an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own
Price      hotel room nights in the United
States. 

Rental
car days sold increased by 15.6% for the year ended December 31, 2007,
over the same period in 2006, due to increases in sales of both our  Name Your Own Price      and
retail rental car services. 

Airline
tickets sold increased by 4.8% for the year ended December 31, 2007, over
the same period in 2006.  The increase in
the number of airline tickets sold in the year ended December 31, 2007,
compared to the same period in 2006, was primarily attributable to an increase
in the sale of retail airline tickets, partially offset by a decrease in the
sale of  Name Your Own Price      airline tickets.  Retail airline ticket bookings increased
primarily due to our elimination of booking fees in June 2007. 

Revenues    

Merchant
revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and,
among other things, select suppliers and determine the price we will accept
from the customer.  Merchant revenues
include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of  Name Your Own Price     airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars and
price-disclosed  

65  

Table
of Contents   

vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the
amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in
connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant price-disclosed
hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the
sale of  Name Your Own Price      airline tickets, hotel rooms and
rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotels; and (4) ancillary fees,
including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services
listed above. 

Agency
revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the
merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third
parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees
and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed
above and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost
of revenue. In June 2007, we eliminated processing fees on the
priceline.com price-disclosed airline ticket service. 

Other revenues
are derived primarily from advertising on our websites.  

We
continue to experience a shift in the mix of our travel business from a
business historically focused exclusively on the sale of domestic point-of-sale
travel services to a business that includes significant sales of international
point-of-sale hotel services, a significant majority of which are currently
generated in Europe.  Because our
domestic services include merchant  Name Your
Own Price      travel services, which are
reported on a  gross  basis, while both our domestic and international retail
travel services are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, revenue increases and
decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of merchant and retail
travel services and, consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly
important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  Our international operations contributed
approximately $372.6 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31,
2007, which compares to $182.7 million for the same period in 2006.  Approximately $30.3 million of this increase
is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 

Merchant Revenues   

Merchant
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 10.9% compared to
the same period in 2006, primarily due to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price      and merchant price-disclosed hotel room nights
and  Name Your Own Price     rental car days, partially offset by a
decrease in the sale of  Name Your Own Price     airline tickets.  In addition, as more fully discussed in Note
18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we recorded excise tax refunds of
$18.6 million in merchant revenues in the year ended December 31, 2007. 

66  

Table of Contents   

Agency Revenues   

Agency revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2007 increased 86.2% compared to the same period in
2006, primarily as a result of growth in our international operations, which
contributed $367 million of agency revenue for the year ended December 31,
2007, and $179 million of agency revenue for the year ended December 31,
2006. Approximately $30.0 million of this increase is due to fluctuations in
currency exchange rates.  These increases
were partially offset by declines in agency revenue related to the sale of
price-disclosed airline tickets, for which priceline.com ceased charging
processing fees in June 2007.  

Other Revenues   

Other revenues during the year ended December 31,
2007 consisted primarily of: (1) advertising revenues; and (2) fees
for referring customers to pricelinemortgage.com for home financing
services.  Other revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2007 increased 65.7%, compared to the same period in
2006, primarily as a result of higher online advertising revenues due to new
advertising partner relationships in 2007.  

Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit    

Cost of Revenues   

During the year ended December 31, 2007, cost of revenues entirely
reflect merchant  Name Your Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded
 gross  with a corresponding cost of revenue while retail transactions are
recorded  net  with no corresponding cost of revenues.  

Cost of
Revenues   

For the year ended December 31, 2007, cost of revenues consisted
primarily of: (1) the cost of opaque hotel rooms from our suppliers, net
of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of opaque airline tickets from our
suppliers, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and
passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline
tickets; and (3) the cost of opaque rental cars from our suppliers, net of
applicable taxes.  Cost of revenues for
the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 6.6%, compared to the same
period in 2006, due primarily to the increase in merchant revenue discussed
above.  Merchant price-disclosed hotel
revenues are recorded at their net amounts, which are amounts received less
amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there are no associated costs of
merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues.  

67  

Table of Contents   

Gross Profit   

Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased
by 59.4% compared to the same period in 2006, primarily as a result of
increased revenue.  Total gross margin
(gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the
year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in 2006, because
 Name Your Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded
 gross  with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage
of transactions compared to retail, price-disclosed transactions which are
primarily recorded  net  with no corresponding cost of revenues.  Gross profit and gross margin were also
positively impacted by the $18.6 million excise tax refund recorded in merchant
revenue in the year ended December 31, 2007 (see Note 18 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements). 
Because  Name Your Own Price       transactions are reported  gross  and retail
transactions are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, we believe that gross
profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our
business.  

Operating Expenses    

Advertising    

Offline
advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated
with domestic television, radio and print advertising; and (2) agency
fees, the cost for creative talent and production costs for television, radio
and print advertising. For the year ended December 31, 2007, offline
advertising expenses were higher than in the same period in 2006 primarily as a
result of increased television and print advertising related to our
 Negotiator  advertising campaign, partially offset by a decrease in radio
advertising.  Online advertising expenses
primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate
programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail
campaigns.  For the year ended December 31,
2007, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2006,
primarily due to an increase in online advertising expenses to support
significantly increased retail agency hotel room nights booked by our
international operations, which rely primarily on online advertising, in
particular keyword purchases and payments to affiliate advertisers, to drive
their businesses, partially offset by the elimination of advertising fees paid
under our agreement with Orbitz,   

68  

Table of Contents   

which expired on December 31, 2006, and the impact of higher
efficiency requirements (i.e., higher internal  return on investment  criteria)
on other online spend.  

Sales and
Marketing   

Sales
and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing
fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-party
service providers that operate our call centers   for our priceline.com
business  ; and (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks.  For the year ended December 31, 2007,
sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature,
increased over the same period in 2006, primarily due to increased gross
booking volumes.  

Personnel   

Personnel
expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses,
taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year
ended December 31, 2007, personnel expenses increased over the same period
in 2006, primarily due to increased personnel expenses associated with head
count growth of our international operations and increased employee performance
bonus expense.  Stock-based compensation
expense was approximately $16.3 million for the year ended December 31,
2007 and $14.9 million, for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

General
and Administrative   

General
and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside
professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel
related expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year
ended December 31, 2007, over the same period during 2006, due to (1) a
$55.4 million expense related to our net cost of a litigation settlement,
including related legal fees (see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements), (2) a $1.7 million one-time receipt of certain franchise tax
credits in the third quarter 2006, (3) additional fees for outside
professionals and   

69  

Table of Contents   

expenses related to pending litigation, and (4) increased general
and administrative expenses, particularly occupancy and personnel related
expenses, associated with the growth of our international operations.  

Information Technology   

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced
data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (2) system
maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other
expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to
outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the increase in
information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2006, was primarily
associated with the growth of our international operations.  

Depreciation and Amortization   

Depreciation
and amortization expenses consist of:  (1) amortization
of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of
internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer
equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office
equipment and furniture and fixtures. 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, depreciation and amortization
expense increased from the same period in 2006, primarily as a result of
increased depreciation and amortization related to investment in our
international operations.  

Restructuring Charge, net   

In
the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded a net restructuring charge
of approximately $135,000 related to vacated leased property.  

70  

Table of Contents   

Other Income (Expense)    

For the   year ended December 31,
2007, interest income on cash and
marketable securities increased over the same period in 2006, primarily due to
higher prevailing interest rates and significantly higher cash balances
throughout 2007, and including approximately $3.3 million of interest received
on our excise tax refund.  Interest
expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2007 over the same period in 2006, due primarily to
increased average debt balances in 2007, as well as an increase in prevailing
interest rates on the variable portion of the interest rate swap agreement
related to our 1% Convertible Senior Notes.  Foreign exchange losses of $3.3 million and
$0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
were recorded in  Foreign currency transactions and other.   

Income Taxes    

Income
tax benefit for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 differs from
the expected tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily because it
includes benefits amounting to $47.9 and $28.1 million, respectively, resulting
from a reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax
assets.  Other items resulting in a
difference between our effective tax rate and the statutory rate include a tax
benefit of approximately $3.6 million resulting from the recognition of foreign
capital allowance carryforwards in 2007, the foreign tax benefit of interest expense
on intercompany debt and lower foreign tax rates, partly offset by state income
taxes in 2007 and 2006.  In the fourth
quarter of 2006, the Netherlands enacted a reduction in its statutory tax rate
from 29.6% to 25.5%, effective January 1, 2007.  In the third quarter of 2007, the United
Kingdom enacted a reduction in its statutory tax rate from 30% to 28%,
effective April 1, 2008.  We
recognized benefits of $1.3 million and $3.0 million in the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, resulting from the impact on deferred taxes of
these enacted statutory tax rate reductions. 
Due to our significant net operating loss carryforwards, we do not
expect to pay significant U.S. federal income taxes for the foreseeable
future.  We expect to make cash payments
for U.S. alternative minimum tax and for certain international taxes.  

71  

Table of Contents   

Equity in Loss of Investees and Minority Interests    

Equity
in loss of investees and minority interests for the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006, represented (1) minority interests associated with the
ownership of priceline.com International that is held by former shareholders of
Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, including certain European-based
managers of that business; and (2) equity in income (loss) of investees,
principally comprised of our pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s net
results.  The change in equity in income
of investees and minority interests versus the prior year was primarily due to
an increase in the minority interest in the earnings of priceline.com
International.  Also, the prior year
includes a $1.1 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of our
investment in pricelinemortgage.com to its estimated fair value.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

As
of December 31, 2008, we had $463.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments.  Approximately
$181.6 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are
held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros
and, to a lesser extent, in British Pounds Sterling. Cash equivalents are
primarily comprised of U.S. Treasury money market accounts and foreign
government securities.  Short-term
investments are primarily comprised of U.S. and foreign government securities,
highly liquid, investment grade corporate debt instruments and certificates of
deposit.  

All of our merchant
transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our
customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date.  We therefore tend to experience significant
swings in supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our cost of
revenue during the last few weeks of every quarter.  This can cause volatility in working capital
levels and impact cash balances more or less than our operating income would
indicate.  

Net cash provided by
operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $315.6
million, resulting from net income of $193.5 million, non-cash items not
affecting cash flows of $133.1 million and partially offset by $11.0 million of
changes in working capital.  The changes
in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2008, were primarily
related to a $48.0 million increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses
and other current assets, partially offset by a $37.0 million increase in
accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities.  The increase in accounts receivable is
primarily due to growth in revenues, partially offset by an increase in the
allowance for doubtful accounts.  The increase in allowance for doubtful
accounts results primarily from recently experienced slower payment of agency
commissions by hotels and to reflect the potential for increased losses
resulting from the worldwide recession and
the related impact on the financial health of our hotel partners.  A majority of the increase in accounts
payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities is related to increases in
accrued affiliate commissions, deferred merchant bookings related to our merchant
business and bonus accrual.  Non-cash
items were primarily associated with deferred income taxes, stock-based
compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, primarily related to
intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions of Travelweb, Booking.com
Limited, Booking.com B.V., and Agoda. 
Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31,
2007, was $156.0 million, resulting from net income of $157.1  

72  

Table of Contents   

million and non-cash items not affecting cash
flows of $18.9 million, partially offset by $19.9 million of changes in working
capital.  Net income included $55.4
million paid to settle litigation and $21.9 million received in excise tax
refunds (see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information regarding the litigation settlement and excise tax refund) and a
$1.2 million favorable litigation settlement related to credit card processing
fees.  The changes in working capital for
the year ended December 31, 2007, were primarily related to a $33.4
million increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current
assets, partially offset by a $9.8 million increase in accounts payable,
accrued expenses and other current liabilities. 
The increases in accounts receivable and accounts payable are primarily
due to significant revenue growth for our international operations.  Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
increased primarily due to a $5.3 million increase in bonus accruals and a $3.6
million increase in online advertising accruals.  Non-cash items were primarily associated with
deferred income tax benefit, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and
amortization, primarily related to acquisition-related intangible assets.  The deferred income tax benefit resulted
primarily from the $47.9 million non-cash reversal of a portion of our deferred
income tax valuation allowance, as well as a $3.6 million non-recurring income
tax benefit resulting from the recognition of foreign capital allowance carry
forwards in the fourth quarter of 2007.  

Net cash used in investing
activities was $151.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Investing activities were affected by the purchase of $154.0 million of stock
in priceline.com International held by minority interest shareholders, $1.2
million increase in restricted cash and acquisitions and other equity
investments of $0.6 million.  Investing
activities were also affected by $22.2 million of net maturities of investments
for the year ended December 31, 2008. 
Net cash used in investing activities was $221.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2007.  Investing
activities were affected by $116.1 million of net purchases of investments for
the year ended December 31, 2007, and the purchase of $76.1 million of
stock in priceline.com International held by minority interest
shareholders.  Cash invested in purchases
of property and equipment was $18.3 million and $15.9 million in the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Net cash used in financing
activities was approximately $168.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2008.  The cash used in financing
activities during the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily related
to $176.9 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, $4.4
million of treasury stock purchases, partially offset by $5.5 million of
proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $7.0 million of excess
tax benefits from stock-based compensation. 
Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $19.4
million for the year ended December 31, 2007.  The cash provided by financing activities
during the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily related to $19.8
million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $3.6
million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset
by $2.6 million of treasury stock purchases and $1.3 million of debt issuance
costs.  

The
following table represents the Company s material contractual obligations and
commitments as of December 31, 2008 (see Note 18 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements):  

(1)              At December 31, 2008 the Company s convertible
debt is a current liability because the contingent conversion thresholds on
each of the Notes were exceeded.  As a
result, the Notes are convertible at the option of the holder.  See Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements.  Also includes interest
payable on the Notes through 2009.  

73  

Table of Contents   

Based
upon the closing price of our common stock for the prescribed measurement
periods during the three months ended December 31, 2008, the contingent
conversion thresholds on each of our convertible senior note issues were
exceeded.  As a result, the notes
(aggregate principal amount $393 million) are convertible at the option of the
holder as of December 31, 2008 and, accordingly, have been classified as a
current liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that date.  Worldwide
recession has increased the likelihood that certain holders, such as
investment funds seeking liquidity to fund investor withdrawals, will elect to
convert our convertible senior notes prior to maturity. In the year ended December 31,
2008, approximately $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 1% Notes,
$37.9 million aggregate principal amount of 2011 Notes, $14.0 million aggregate
principal amount of 2013 Notes and $30,000 of the 2.25% Notes were converted.  We also received notices of conversion from
the holders of approximately $8.0 million of the 2.225% Notes, which are
expected to be settled in the first quarter of 2009.  If holders elect to convert, we would be
required to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash and intend to
satisfy any conversion premium in shares of common stock.  We would likely fund the repayment of the
principal amount with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments (totaling approximately $463.4 million at December 31, 2008)
and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  

In
September 2007, we entered into a $175 million five-year committed
revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, which is secured, subject to
certain exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on substantially all
of our assets and related intangible assets located in the United States. 
In addition, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed
by substantially all of the assets and related intangible assets of our
material direct and indirect domestic and foreign subsidiaries.  Borrowings under the revolving credit
facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to the
greater of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association s prime lending
rate and (b) the federal funds rate plus   of 1%, plus an applicable
margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%; or at an adjusted LIBOR for the
interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin
ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%.  Undrawn
balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to
commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%.  

The
revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50.0 million of
letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as
swingline loans, which are available in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling
and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans
made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate
purposes.  As of December 31, 2008,
there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility and we have issued
approximately $2.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit
facility.  

We
believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient
to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations
through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or
thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from
operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts
and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital
expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which
could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or
results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of
equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders
would be diluted.  There are no
assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the
future, that revenue growth or sustained profitability will be realized or that
future borrowings or equity sales will be available in amounts sufficient to
make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our
indebtedness.  

74  

Table of Contents   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.   

As
of December 31, 2008, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements
that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our
financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or
capital resources.  

Item
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk      

We
manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk through
internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate,
through the use of derivative financial instruments. We use foreign exchange
derivative contracts to manage short-term foreign currency risk.  

The
objective of our policies is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow
and fair value exposures resulting from possible future adverse fluctuations in
rates. We evaluate our exposure to market risk by assessing the anticipated
near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange
rates. This evaluation includes the review of leading market indicators,
discussions with financial analysts and investment bankers regarding current
and future economic conditions and the review of market projections as to
expected future rates. We utilize this information to determine our own
investment strategies as well as to determine if the use of derivative
financial instruments is appropriate to mitigate any potential future market
exposure that we may face. Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative
instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for
which there are no underlying exposures. We do not use financial instruments
for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.  

We
did not experience any material changes in interest rate exposures during the
year ended December 31, 2008.  Based upon economic conditions and
leading market indicators at December 31, 2008, we do not foresee a
significant adverse change in interest rates in the near future.  

As
of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of our debt is approximately $393
million.  We estimate that the market
value of such debt was approximately $742 million as of December 31,
2008.  Substantially all of the market
value of our debt in excess of the carrying value is related to the conversion
premium on the bonds.  

As
a result of the acquisitions of our European and Asian operations, we are
conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United
States through subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S.
dollar (primarily Euros and British Pounds Sterling).  As a result, we face exposure to adverse
movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international
operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon
consolidation.  If the U.S. dollar
weakens against the local currency, the translation of these
foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net
revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss.  Similarly, our net assets, net revenues,
operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the
U.S. dollar strengthens against local currency. Additionally, foreign
exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than
the functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in our
Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
Our international operations are subject to risks typical of
international business, including, but not limited to, differing economic
conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other
regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility.  

From
time to time, we enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to minimize
the impact of short-term foreign currency fluctuations on our consolidated
operating results.  As of December 31,
2008, derivatives with a notional value of 25.0 million Euros were
outstanding.  As of December 31,
2007, derivatives with notional values of 16.0 million Euros and 3.7 million
British Pounds Sterling were outstanding. 
Foreign exchange gains of $4.3 million and losses of $3.3 million and
$0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, were recorded in  Foreign currency transactions and   

75  

Table of Contents   

other, 
and were principally related to foreign exchange derivative contracts.  We may enter into additional foreign exchange
derivative contracts or other economic hedges in the future.  

Additionally,
fixed rate investments are subject to unrealized gains and losses due to
interest rate volatility.  To the extent
that changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates affect general
economic conditions, priceline.com would also be affected by such changes.  

Item 8. 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      

The following Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and the report of our independent
registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
(See Item 15).  

Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007; Consolidated Statements
of Operations, Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Cash Flows for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006; Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

Item
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      

None.  

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures      

Disclosure Controls and Procedures   . Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and
procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.  

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting.     Our management is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework in  Internal
Control - Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

Based
on our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.  

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. 
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.  

Deloitte  
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that also audited
the Company s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K, audited the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2008, and issued their related attestation
report which is included herein.  

76  

Table of Contents   

Changes in Internal Controls.     No change in our internal control over financial reporting
(as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) occurred during
the quarter ended December 31, 2008 that materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.  

In
November 2007, we acquired Agoda, and as a result of that acquisition, we
have undertaken a review of their internal controls and intend to make changes,
if necessary, that we believe to be appropriate to those internal controls as
we integrate its business with ours. As we further integrate Agoda s business,
we will continue to review its internal controls and may take further steps to
ensure that its internal controls are effective and integrated appropriately.  

In
March 2008, we initiated the implementation of an enterprise resource
planning ( ERP ) system for our domestic operations. The implementation is
expected to be completed over the next year and involves changes in systems
that include internal controls.  We
expect to review each system as it is being implemented and the controls
affected by the implementation of the new systems, and are making appropriate
changes to affected internal controls as we implement the new systems.  However, the possibility exists that our
migration to the new ERP system could adversely affect our internal controls
over financial reporting and procedures.  

Item 9B.
Other Information      

None.  

77  

Table of Contents   

PART III     

Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance      

Information
required by Part III, Item 10, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 11.
Executive Compensation      

Information
required by Part III, Item 11, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters      

Information
required by Part III, Item 12, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence      

Information
required by Part III, Item 13, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services      

Information
required by Part III, Item 14, will be included in or Proxy Statement
relating to our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the SEC
within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008,
and is incorporated herein by reference.  

78  

Table of Contents   

PART IV     

Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.      

(a)                                      List of
Documents Filed as a Part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  

The
following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the report of
our independent registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.  

Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007; and the related
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Cash
Flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006; Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements; and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm.  

(b)                                     Exhibits  

The
exhibits listed below are filed as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  In
reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding
their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure
information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements.  The agreements contain representations and
warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.  These representations and warranties have
been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement
and:  

should not in
all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way
of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be
inaccurate; 

have been
qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with
the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not
necessarily reflected in the agreement; 

may apply
standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as
material to you or other investors; and 

were made only
as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may
be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. 

Accordingly,
these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of
affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional
information about the Company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
and the Company s other public filings, which are available without charge
through the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov.  

Exhibit   

Number   

Description   

2.1(m)  

Share Sale and
  Purchase Agreement, dated July 14, 2005 by and between the Registrant,
  ACME Limited and Blue Sky Investments B.V.  

2.2(o)  

Articles of
  Association of priceline.com International Limited, as amended.  

3.1(a)  

Amended and
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant.  

3.2(b)  

Certificate of
  Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
  Registrant  

3.3(a)  

By-Laws of the
  Registrant.  

4.1  

Reference is
  hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.  

4.2(a)  

Specimen
  Certificate for Registrant s Common Stock.  

79  

Table of Contents   

4.3(a)  

Amended and
  Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 8, 1998,
  among the Registrant and certain stockholders of the Registrant.  

4.4(b)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2003, among the Registrant and
  the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.5(b)  

Indenture, dated
  as of August 1, 2003, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.6(b)  

Supplemental
  Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2003, between the Registrant and
  American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.7(d)  

Second
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.8(c)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004, among priceline.com
  Incorporated and the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.9(c)  

Indenture, dated
  as of June 28, 2004, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.10(d)  

First
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.11(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A
  Convertible Redeemable PIK Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.12(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series B
  Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.13(u)  

Indenture, dated as of September 27, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.14(u)  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2006,
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as
  representative of the Initial Purchasers.  

4.15(w)  

Indenture relating to New 1.00% Notes, dated as of November 6,
  2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and
  Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.16(w)  

Indenture relating to New 2.25% Notes, dated as of November 6,
  2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and
  Trust Company, as Trustee.  

10.1(a)+  

1997 Omnibus
  Plan of the Registrant.  

10.2(e)+  

1999 Omnibus
  Plan of the Registrant, as amended.  

10.3(f)+  

Priceline.com
  2000 Employee Stock Option Plan.  

10.4(e)+  

Form of
  Stock Option Grant Agreement.  

10.5(e)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants to Board of Directors.  

10.6(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.).  

10.7(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.).  

10.8(g)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement with covenants (U.S.).  

10.9(g)+  

Restricted Stock
  Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the
  Registrant.  

10.10(h)+  

Stock Option and
  Restricted Stock Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, by and between the
  Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.11(g)+  

Restricted Stock
  Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and the
  Registrant.  

10.12(i)+  

Employment Agreement, dated February 8, 2006, by and between the
  Registrant and Peter J. Millones.  

10.13(i)+  

Form of
  priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for
  Non-Employee Directors.  

10.14(j)*  

Formation and Funding Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2000, by
  and between the Registrant and Alliance Partners, L.P.  

10.15(k)  

Restructuring
  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003, between Hutchison-Priceline
  Limited, Trio Happiness Limited and PCLN Asia, Inc.  

10.16(k)  

Amended and
  Restated Securityholders  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003, among
  Hutchison-Priceline Limited, PCLN Asia, Inc. and Trio Happiness Limited.  

10.17(k)  

Master
  Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003, between Credit Suisse First
  Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.18(k)  

Schedule to the
  Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003 between Credit Suisse
  First Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.19(k)  

Letter
  Agreement, dated November 26, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston
  International and priceline.com Incorporated.  

10.20(k)  

Securities
  Purchase Agreement dated as of May 3, 2004, between Lowestfare.com
  Incorporated, Hilton Electronic Distribution Systems, LLC, HT-HDS, Inc.,
  MI Distribution, LLC, Starwood Resventure LLC, Pegasus Business Intelligence,
  LP and Travelweb LLC.  

10.21(l)  

Sale and
  Purchase Agreement dated September 21, 2004 by and among Priceline.com
  Holdco U.K. Limited and the security holders of Active Hotels Limited listed
  therein.  

10.22(n)+  

Stock Option
  Grant Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna.  

10.23(n)+  

Indemnification
  Agreement, dated June 2, 2005, by and between the Registrant and
  Marshall Loeb.  

10.24(p)+  

Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between the
  Registrant and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.25(p)+  

Restricted Stock Grant Agreement, dated October 19, 2005,
  reflecting grant of restricted stock to Daniel J. Finnegan.  

80  

Table of Contents   

10.26(q)+  

Form of Registrant s 1999 Omnibus Plan Award Agreement  
  Restricted Stock Units for Employees in the Netherlands.  

10.27(r)+  

Form of Performance Share Agreement under the priceline.com
  Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan.  

10.28(s)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated September 5, 2006, among
  priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II
  thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.29(t)  

Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as representative of the
  Initial Purchasers.  

10.30(t)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated
  as of September 21, 2006.  

10.31(t)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated
  as of September 21, 2006.  

10.32(t)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and
  priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.33(t)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and
  priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.34(v)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year
  Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs  
  Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and
  Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between
  Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.35(v)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year
  Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
  Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as
  of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share
  Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  
  Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.36(x)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated December 4, 2006, among
  priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II
  thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.37(y)+  

Priceline.com
  Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated as of February 20, 2007.  

10.38(z)  

Stipulation and
  Agreement of Settlement between P. Warren Ross, Thomas Linton, and John
  Anderson and the class and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  May 3, 2007.  

10.39(aa)  

Credit Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 among
  priceline.com Incorporated, RBC citizens, National Association, and Bank of
  Scotland plc as co-documentation Agents, bank of America, N.A. as syndication
  Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as Administrative Agent.  

10.40(aa)  

Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 by
  and among priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
  Association.  

10.41(aa)  

Guaranty dated as of September 26, 2007 by each of the
  subsidiaries of priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
  Association.  

10.42(bb)*  

Equity Purchase Agreement by and among priceline.com Mauritius Co.
  Ltd, priceline.com Incorporated and the shareholders of Agoda Company Ltd.
  and members of AGIP LLC dated November 6, 2007.  

10.43(cc)+  

Performance
  share unit agreement dated December 1, 2007.  

10.44(  dd)*+  

Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under
  the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company s
  consolidated operations.  

10.45(  dd)*+  

Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under
  the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company s
  domestic operations on an unconsolidated basis.  

10.46(  dd)*+  

Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under
  the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of Agoda Company
  Ltd., Agoda Company Pte. Ltd. and Agoda Services Co. Ltd.  

10.47(  ee)+  

priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (As Amended and Restated
  Effective June 4, 2008).  

10.48(  ff)+  

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to non-U.S.
  participants under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended.  

10.49(  gg)+  

Separation Agreement, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Stef Norden.  

10.50(  gg)+  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated August 22, 2008,
  by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd.  

10.51(  gg)+  

Performance share unit agreement, by and between priceline.com
  Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd.  

10.52  +  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 18, 2008, to   Amended and Restated
  Employment Agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery
  H. Boyd.  

10.53  +  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18,
  2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Robert J. Mylod.  

10.54  +  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18,
  2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Peter J. Millones.  

10.55  +  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18,
  2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Chris Soder.  

10.56+  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 16, 2008, to   Letter agreement, dated
  October 19, 2005 by and between priceline.com and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.57+  

Amended and Restated Employment Contract, by and between Booking.com
  B.V. and Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen.  

12.1  

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

81  

Table of Contents   

82  

Table of Contents   

Signatures     

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED  

By:  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:   Jeffery H. Boyd  

Title:     Chief Executive Officer  

Date:     February 20, 2009  

Power of
Attorney   

KNOW
ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below
constitutes and appoints Jeffery H. Boyd,   Daniel J. Finnegan   and Peter J.
Millones, and each of them severally, his or her true and lawful
attorney-in-fact with power of substitution and resubstitution to sign in his
or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all
things and execute any and all instruments that such attorney may deem
necessary or advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules,
regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
hereto, as fully and for all intents and purposes as he or she might do or
could do in person, and hereby ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/ Ralph M. Bahna  

Chairman  

February 20, 2009  

Ralph M. Bahna  

and Director  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

President, Chief Executive Officer and  

February 20, 2009  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Director (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ Daniel J. Finnegan  

Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting  

February 20, 2009  

Daniel J. Finnegan  

Officer (Principal Financial Officer and 
  Principal Accounting Officer)  

83  

Table
of Contents   

84  

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

85  

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  

  priceline.com
Incorporated  

  Norwalk,
Connecticut  

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company )
as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, changes in stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.  We also have audited the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
criteria established in  Internal Control 
   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The Company s management is responsible for
these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in  Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting  appearing in Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control
over financial reporting based on our audits.  

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements
included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  Our audit
of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.  

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by,
or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by
the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis.  Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over
financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

86  

Table of Contents   

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the priceline.com
Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

87  

Table
of Contents   

priceline.com Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS     

   (In thousands, except share and per share data)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

88  

Table of Contents   

priceline.com Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

89  

Table of Contents   

priceline.com
Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY     

   FOR THE
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (In thousands)   

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

90  

Table of Contents   

priceline.com Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

   (In thousands)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

91  

Table
of Contents   

priceline.com Incorporated  

  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

1.                                          BUSINESS DESCRIPTION  

Priceline.com
Incorporated ( priceline.com,  or the  Company ) is a leading global online
travel company that offers its customers a broad range of travel services,
including the opportunity to purchase hotel rooms, car rentals, airline
tickets, vacation packages, cruises and destination services in a traditional
price-disclosed manner.  The Company also
offers its unique  Name Your Own Price       service that enables its customers to use the
Internet to save money by allowing them to make offers for travel services at
prices they set, while enabling sellers, which include many of the major
domestic hotel, airline and rental car companies, to generate revenue.  

2.                                          SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Basis of Presentation      The Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, including without limitation, priceline.com International Ltd.
( priceline.com International ), Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited,
priceline.com Europe Ltd, and   priceline.com Mauritius
Company Limited (formerly known as the   Agoda
Company, Ltd.)   ( Agoda ). 
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation. Investments in affiliates in which the Company does not have
control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted
for by the equity method.  

Reclassification      Certain
prior year amounts in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements have been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.  

Use of Estimates      The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
footnotes thereto.  Actual results may
differ from those estimates.  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments      The
Company s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents,
restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and
deferred merchant bookings, are carried at cost which approximates their fair
value because of the short-term nature of these financial instruments.  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
estimated fair value of the Company s outstanding Convertible Senior Notes was
approximately $742 million and $1.66 billion, respectively.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents      The Company invests excess
cash primarily in U.S. Treasury money market accounts and foreign government
securities. All highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three
months or less are considered cash equivalents.  

Investments      The Company also invests
excess cash in short-term investment grade fixed income securities.  In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities,  the Company has classified its investments as
available-for-sale.  These securities are
carried at estimated fair value with the aggregate unrealized gains and losses
related to these investments, net of taxes, reflected as a part of accumulated
other comprehensive income within stockholders  equity.  

The
fair value of the investments is based on the specific quoted market price of
the securities at the Consolidated Balance Sheet dates.  Investments are considered to be impaired
when a decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary.  Once a decline in fair value is determined to
be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis
in the investment is established. The   

92  

Table
of Contents   

marketable securities are
presented as current assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets, if
they are available to meet the short-term working capital needs of the Company.
Investments with a maturity date greater than one year from the balance sheet
date are classified as long-term investments.  

Restricted Cash      Restricted cash at December 31,
2008 and 2007 collateralizes office leases and supplier obligations, and, at December 31,
2007, the counterparty to the interest rate hedge agreement in connection with
the Company s 1% Convertible Senior Notes.  

Property and Equipment      Property and equipment are
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and
amortization of property and equipment is computed on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, when applicable, the life of
the lease, whichever is shorter.  

Goodwill      The Company accounts for
acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which requires that
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of
acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price,
including related transaction costs, over the estimated fair values of the net
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
The Company s Consolidated Financial Statements reflect an acquired
business starting at the date of the acquisition.  

Goodwill
is reviewed at least annually for impairment, or earlier if there is indication
of impairment, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ).  SFAS 142 also requires the Company to
compare the fair value of the reporting units to its carrying amount on an annual
basis to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value
of the reporting units is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is
recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than its
carrying value. Fair values for acquired businesses are determined based on
discounted cash flows, market multiples or appraised values.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangible Assets      The Company
reviews long-lived assets and intangible assets for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
not be recoverable. An asset is considered to be impaired when the sum of the
undiscounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset
and its eventual disposition exceeds its carrying amount. The amount of
impairment loss, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the
asset over the present value of estimated future cash flows using a discount
rate commensurate with the risks involved.  

Software Capitalization      Certain direct development
costs associated with internal-use software are capitalized and include
external direct costs of services and payroll costs for employees devoting time
to the software projects principally related to software coding, designing
system interfaces and installation and testing of the software. These costs are
recorded as property and equipment and are generally amortized over a period
not to exceed three years beginning when the asset is substantially ready for
use. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, as well as
maintenance and training costs, are expensed as incurred.  

Merchant
Revenues and Cost of Merchant Revenues   

Name Your
Own Price        Services : 
Merchant revenues and related cost of revenues are derived from
transactions where priceline.com is the merchant of record and, among other
things, selects suppliers and determines the price it will accept from the
customer.  The Company recognizes such
revenues and costs if and when it fulfills the customer s non-refundable offer.
Merchant revenues and cost of merchant revenues include the selling price and
cost, respectively, of the travel services and are reported on a gross
basis.  In very limited circumstances,
priceline.com makes certain customer accommodations to satisfy disputes and
complaints.  The Company accrues for such
estimated losses and classifies the resulting expense as adjustments to
merchant revenue and cost of merchant revenues.    Pursuant to the
terms of the Company s hotel service, its hotel suppliers are permitted to bill
the Company   

93  

Table
of Contents   

for the underlying cost of the
service during a specified period of time. 
In the event that the Company is not billed by its hotel supplier within
the specified time period, the Company reduces its cost of revenues by the
unbilled amounts.  

Merchant
Price-Disclosed Hotel Service   :  Merchant revenues for the Company s   merchant
price-disclosed   hotel service are derived from transactions where
its customers purchase hotel rooms from hotel suppliers at disclosed rates
which are subject to contractual arrangements. 
Charges are billed to customers at the time of booking and are included
in deferred merchant bookings until the customer completes the stay. Such
amounts are generally refundable upon cancellation prior to stay, subject to
cancellation penalties in certain cases. Merchant revenues and accounts payable
to the hotel supplier are recognized at the conclusion of the customer s stay
at the hotel. The Company records the difference between the selling price and
the cost of the hotel room as merchant revenue.  

Agency Revenues   

Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where the
Company is not the merchant of record and where the prices of the services sold
are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions,
customer processing fees and global distribution system ( GDS ) reservation
booking fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any
associated cost of revenue. Such revenues are generally recognized by the
Company when the customers complete their travel.  

Advertising  - Offline    Advertising-offline expenses are comprised primarily of costs
of television, radio and newspaper advertising, agency fees, creative talent
and production cost for television and radio commercials.  The Company
expenses the production costs of advertising the first time the advertising
takes place. 

Advertising   - Online           Advertising-online expenses consist primarily of keyword searches,
affiliate programs, banners, pop-ups, and email advertisements and are
recognized as expense as the advertisements take place.  

Sales and Marketing      Sales and marketing
expenses are comprised primarily of credit card processing fees   associated
with merchant transactions  , fees paid to third-party service providers
that operate the Company s call centers for its   priceline.com business  , provisions
for credit card charge-backs and provisions for bad debt   primarily
related to agency hotel commission receivables  , all of which are expensed
as incurred.  

Personnel         Personnel expenses consist of compensation to the Company s
personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health
insurance and stock based compensation. 
Included in accrued expenses were accrued compensation expenses of $29.4
million and $19.8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Information Technology      Information technology
expenses are comprised primarily of outsourced data center costs, system
maintenance and software license fees, data communications and other expenses
associated with operating the Company s Internet sites and payments to outside
contractors. Such costs are expensed as incurred.  

Stock-Based Compensation     The Company records stock-based
compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123
(Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ( SFAS 123(R) ).  Effective January 1, 2006, the Company
adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective method. Under this
transition method, compensation cost recognized in the year ended December 31,
2006, includes amounts of: (a) compensation cost of all share-based awards
granted to employees prior to, but unvested as of, January 1, 2006, based
on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original
provisions of SFAS 123, net of estimated forfeitures, and (b) compensation
cost for all stock- 

94  

Table
of Contents   

based awards granted subsequent
to January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in
accordance with the new provisions of SFAS 123(R).  The Company determined the excess tax
benefits available as of the adoption date for use in offsetting future tax
shortfalls using the alternative transition method of FASB Staff Position 123(R)-3.
The adoption of SFAS 123(R) resulted in an increase in net earnings
attributable to the cumulative effect of this accounting change caused by SFAS
123(R) s requirement to apply an estimated forfeiture rate to unvested
awards.  The Company previously recorded
forfeitures when they occurred. The cumulative effect of accounting change as
of January 1, 2006 totaled approximately $0.2 million ($0.1 million net of
related tax effect) and was recorded in personnel expense for the year ended December 31,
2006 since its impact on net income and net income per share was not
significant. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), deferred compensation
related to restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards was classified as
a separate component of stockholders  equity. In accordance with the provisions
of SFAS 123(R), on January 1, 2006, the balance in deferred compensation
was reclassified to additional paid-in capital.  

SFAS
123(R) requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment
transactions be recognized in financial statements based upon fair value.  The fair value of restricted stock,
performance share units and restricted stock units is determined based on the
number of units or shares, as applicable, granted and the quoted price of the
Company s common stock as of the grant date. 
Stock-based compensation related to performance share units reflects the
estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period.  The fair value of stock options is determined
as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Such value is
recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures,
using the straight line method under SFAS 123(R).  

SFAS
123(R) also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of
recognized compensation costs to be reported as financing cash flows, rather
than as operating cash flows, but only when such excess tax benefits are
realized.  

Income Taxes      The Company accounts for
income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes,  which requires recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for
the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax
liabilities and assets are determined based on the temporary difference between
the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using presently
enacted tax rates in effect. Valuation allowances are established when
necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized.  

Segment Reporting      The
Company operates and manages its business as a single reportable unit.  Operating segments that have similar economic
characteristics are aggregated.  For
geographic related information, see Note 20 to the Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

Foreign Currency Translation      The functional currency of
the Company s foreign subsidiaries is generally their respective local
currency.  Assets and liabilities are
translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange existing at the balance sheet
date.  Income statement amounts are
translated at the average exchange rates for the period.  Translation gains and losses are included as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Foreign
currency transaction gains and (losses) are included in the Company s
Consolidated Statement of Operations, principally in  Foreign currency
transactions and other,  and were not significant for any period.  

Derivative Financial Instruments      The Company
recognizes all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value.  The Company uses derivative instruments
principally in the management of interest rate and foreign currency exposure.
On the date on which the Company enters into a derivative transaction, the derivative
is designated as a hedge of the identified exposure. The Company formally
documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as
well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge
transaction. In this documentation, the Company specifically identifies the
asset, liability, firm commitment, forecasted transaction, or net   

95  

Table
of Contents   

investment that has been
designated as the hedged item and states how the hedging instrument is expected
to reduce the risks related to the hedged item. The Company measures
effectiveness of its hedging relationships both at hedge inception and on an
ongoing basis.  The Company s derivative
instruments do not contain leverage features. Gains and losses on a derivative
designated as a cash flow hedge are reported as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss). Gains and losses on a derivative designated
as a fair value hedge are offset by the loss or gain of the hedged item.   Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the
statement of operations as incurred, and was not significant for any period.  

From time to time, the
Company enters into derivative contracts with counterparties to minimize the
impact of short-term foreign currency fluctuations on consolidated operating
results.  Realized and unrealized gains
and losses resulting from the derivatives are recognized in the period in which
they occur.  As of December 31,
2008, derivatives with a notional value of 25.0 million Euros were
outstanding.  As of December 31,
2007, derivatives with notional values of 16.0 million Euros and 3.7 million
British Pounds Sterling were outstanding. 
Foreign exchange gains (losses) from forward contracts in the amount of
$4.0 million, $(3.0) million and $(1.5) million were recorded in  Foreign
currency transactions and other  for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements     On January 1,
2008, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ), which defines fair value, establishes a framework
for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and
expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The adoption of SFAS 157 did not have a material
impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  See Note 7 for more information regarding
fair value measurements. 

In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position No. SFAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 
( FSP FAS 157-2 ).  FSP
FAS 157-2 defers the effective date of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial
assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or
disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at
least annually), to fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal
years, beginning after November 15, 2008. 
The Company does not expect a material impact on the  Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements for adoption of this Statement for nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities. 

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an Amendment of FASB Statement
133  ( SFAS 161 ).  SFAS 161 provides new
disclosure requirements for an entity s derivative and hedging activities.  SFAS 161 is effective for periods beginning
after November 15, 2008.  The
Company will comply with the expanded reporting requirements beginning in the
first quarter of 2009.  

In
April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142-3,
 Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets  ( FSP FAS 142-3 ).  In determining the useful life of acquired
intangible assets, FSP FAS 142-3 removes the requirement to consider whether an
intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost of material
modifications to the existing terms and conditions and, instead, requires an
entity to consider its own historical experience in renewing similar
arrangements. FSP FAS 142-3 also requires expanded disclosure related to the
determination of intangible asset useful lives. 
The FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2008, and may impact any intangible assets
the Company acquires in future transactions.  

In
May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position No. APB 14-1,  Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May be
Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)  ( FSP APB
14-1 ).  FSP APB 14-1 requires cash
settled convertible debt, such as the Company s convertible senior notes, to be
separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a value to be
assigned to each.  The value assigned to
the debt component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a
similar bond without the conversion feature. 
The difference between the bond cash proceeds   

96  

Table
of Contents   

and this
estimated fair value, representing the value assigned to the equity component,
is recorded as a debt discount and amortized to interest expense over the life
of the bond.  In addition, if the
Company s convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity and the
fair value of the debt component immediately prior to extinguishment is
different from the carrying value, it will result in a gain or loss on
extinguishment.  Although FSP APB 14-1
will have no impact on the Company s actual past or future cash flows, it will
require the Company to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense
as the debt discount is amortized and will result in gains or losses on
extinguishment that would not have occurred under previous GAAP.  FSP APB 14-1 is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and
must be applied on a retrospective basis. 
Accordingly, commencing with the filing of the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2009, the
Company s historical financial statements will be adjusted to give effect to
FSP APB 14-1.  The Company estimates that
the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will increase non-cash interest expense for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 by approximately $26 million
($16 million net of tax), $28 million ($17 million net of tax),  and $6 million ($3.6 million net of tax),
respectively.  The estimated impact to
fiscal year 2009 non-cash interest expense is expected to be an increase of
approximately $21 million ($13 million net of tax), excluding the impact of
future debt conversions, if any.  The
Company estimates that adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will also result in a gain on
extinguishment of debt of approximately $5 million ($3 million net of tax) for
the year ended December 31, 2008.  

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No.162,  The
Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles  ( SFAS 162 ).  This Statement identifies the sources of
accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used
in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are
presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  SFAS 162 is effective November 15,
2008.  The adoption of the Statement did
not result in a change in the Company s current practices.  

In June 2008, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task
Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 07-5,  Determining Whether an Instrument (or
Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock  ( EITF 07-5 ).  This Issue addresses the determination of
whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own stock.
  EITF 07-5 will be effective for years beginning after December 15,
2008.  The Company does not expect a
material impact to the financial statements for adoption of this EITF.  

In November 2008, the Emerging Issues Task
Force reached consensus on EITF Issue No. 08-7,  Accounting for Defensive
Intangible Assets  ( EITF 08-7 ).  A
defensive asset is an acquired intangible asset where the acquirer has no
intention of using, or intends to discontinue use of, the intangible asset but
holds it to prevent competitors from obtaining any benefit from it.  The acquired defensive asset will be treated
as a separate unit of accounting and the useful life assigned will be based on
the period during which the asset would diminish in value.  The consensus is effective in fiscal years
beginning on or after December 15, 2008.  

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value
Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  ( SFAS 159 ).  The standard required unrealized gains and
losses to be included in earnings for items reported using the fair value
option.  SFAS 159 permitted
companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value.  SFAS 159 was
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007.  The Company did not elect the fair
value option described in SFAS 159 for financial instruments and certain other
items.  

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (R),  Business
Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) ). SFAS 141(R) requires an entity to
recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies,
and contingent consideration at their fair value on the acquisition date.  Subsequent changes to the estimated fair
value of contingent consideration will be reflected in earnings until the
contingency is settled.  SFAS 141(R) also
requires acquisition-related costs and restructuring   

97  

Table
of Contents   

costs to be expensed as
incurred rather than treated as part of the purchase price.  The adoption of SFAS 141(R) will
change the Company s accounting treatment for business combinations on a
prospective basis beginning January 1, 2009.  

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  ( SFAS 160 ).  SFAS 160 changes the accounting and
reporting for minority interests, which will be characterized as
non-controlling interests and classified as a component of equity.  SFAS 160 is effective for the Company on
a prospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, except for
presentation and disclosure requirements that will be applied retrospectively.  

3.                                          BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS  

On November 6, 2007,
the Company and a newly-formed, indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, acquired 100% of the total issued share capital of priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.) ( Agoda ) and AGIP LLC.  The purchase
price for the acquisition, including acquisition costs, consists of an initial
purchase price payable by the Company in cash of approximately $16 million and
up to an additional $141.6 million    in
cash, which is payable by the Company if Agoda achieve the maximum  gross
bookings  and earnings targets from January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2010.  Assets acquired totaled $13.7 million and consisted principally of
cash, accounts receivable and intangible assets.  Liabilities assumed totaled approximately
$13.1 million and consisted of accounts payable, accrued expenses, deferred
merchant bookings and deferred taxes. 
Goodwill resulting from the acquisition amounted to approximately $16.0
million. The contingent consideration, if any, will be recorded to goodwill as
an additional purchase price adjustment when the contingency is resolved.  

On December 21, 2007,
the Company acquired 100% of the total issued share capital of an online
advertising company for approximately $4.1 million in cash, including
acquisition costs.  Assets acquired
totaled $2.6 million and consisted principally of cash, accounts receivable and
intangible assets.  Liabilities assumed totaled
approximately $0.6 million and consisted of accounts payable, accrued expenses,
and deferred taxes.  Goodwill resulting
from the acquisition amounted to approximately $3.9 million.  The Company could be required to pay
additional cash if the online advertising company achieves certain specified
financial targets in each year over a three year period commencing January 1,
2008.  The contingent cash consideration
is calculated based on a formula applied to operating results and can range
from zero to $3.8 million in each year. 
Based upon 2008 results, the Company recorded a liability and increased
goodwill by $1.5 million in December 2008 to reflect this purchase price
adjustment.  

The acquisitions have been
accounted for as purchase business combinations. The Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements include the results of operations of the acquired
companies since their respective acquisitions.  

4.                                          STOCK-BASED EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION       

  The
Company has adopted the following stock compensation plans from which
broad-based employee grants may be made:  the priceline.com Incorporated
1997 Omnibus Plan (the  1997 Plan ), the priceline.com Incorporated 1999
Omnibus Plan (the  1999 Plan ) and the priceline.com Incorporated 2000 Employee
Stock Option Plan (the  2000 Plan ), each of which provides for grants of
share-based compensation as incentives and rewards to encourage employees,
officers, consultants and directors in the long-term success of the
Company.  The 1997 Plan, 1999 Plan and
2000 Plan provide for grants of share-based compensation to purchase up to
3,979,166, 9,195,833 and 1,000,000 shares of priceline.com common stock,
respectively, at a purchase price equal to the fair value on the date of grant.  

98  

Table
of Contents   

Stock-based
compensation issued under the plans generally consists of non-qualified stock
options, restricted stock, performance share units and restricted stock
units.  Stock options are granted to
employees at exercise prices equal to the fair value of the common stock at the
date of grant and have a term of 10 years. 
Generally, stock option grants to employees vest over three years from
the grant date.  Restricted stock,
performance share units and restricted stock units generally vest over periods
from 1 to 4 years.  The Company issues
new shares of common stock upon the issuance of restricted stock, the exercise
of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units and performance
share units.  

In
addition, the Company has granted restricted stock and restricted stock units
in shares of priceline.com International to certain managers of its European
operations.  These awards generally
vested over two to three years.  

Stock-based
compensation cost was approximately $40.5 million, $16.3 million and $14.9
million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  The related tax benefit
was $6.3 million, $5.3 million and $5.4 million for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 
Included in the above amounts are stock-based compensation and related
tax benefit for restricted stock and restricted stock units related to shares
of priceline.com International ( PIL Share-Based Awards ).  

The
following table summarizes stock option activity during the year ended December 31,
2008:  

No
stock options were granted during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
or 2006.  The intrinsic value of stock
options exercised was approximately $23.2 million, $46.5 million and $12.6
million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  As of December 31,
2008, all stock options were fully vested and exercisable so there is no future
compensation cost to be recognized.  

The
following table summarizes the activity of unvested restricted stock,
restricted stock units and performance share units ( Share-Based Awards )
during the year ended December 31, 2008:  

99  

Table
of Contents   

The
Company granted 292,812, 520,090 and 322,620 restricted shares, performance
share units and restricted stock units during the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, with an aggregate grant-date fair value of
approximately $32.0 million, $40.7 million and $8.1 million, respectively.  During the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, 164,893, 151,992 and 157,542 shares of
restricted stock vested with a total grant date fair value of $4.7 million,
$3.6 million and $3.5 million.  

As
of December 31, 2008, there was $74.5 million of total future compensation
cost related to unvested Share-Based Awards to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.1 years.  

The
Share-Based Awards include 183,067 performance share units granted in 2008 to
certain employees, with a weighted average grant date fair value of
approximately $114.11 per share.  At December 31, 2008, there were
176,459 unvested performance share units outstanding, net of actual
forfeitures, related to this 2008 grant.  The 176,459 units represent the
current  target  number of shares of priceline.com common stock that may be
issued to employees if the Company, and, with respect to certain grants, its
subsidiaries, priceline.com International and Agoda, achieve certain financial
performance goals.  The actual number of shares to be issued will be
determined upon completion of the performance period, assuming there is no
accelerated vesting for, among other things, a termination of employment under
certain circumstances, or a change in control, and could range from 74,426 to
an additional 478,840 shares over the  target  number of shares if the maximum
performance threshold associated with the performance share units is met by the
Company and/or its subsidiaries, as applicable. 
Stock-based compensation related to the performance share units is
recorded based upon the estimated probable outcome at the end of the
performance period.  During the year
ended December 31, 2008, the estimated probable number of shares to be
issued at the end of the performance period was increased by 120,027
shares.  At December 31, 2008, the
estimated number of probable shares to be issued, net of forfeitures, increased
by 119,526 shares to a total of 295,985 shares.  

In
2007, the Share-Based Awards granted included 276,110 performance share unit
awards at a weighted average grant date fair value of approximately $96.73 per
share.  At December 31, 2008, there
were 240,082 unvested performance share units outstanding, net of actual
forfeitures, related to this 2007 grant.  The 240,082 units represent the
current  target  number of shares of priceline.com common stock that may be
issued to employees if the Company, and, with respect to certain grants, its
subsidiaries, priceline.com International and Agoda, achieve certain financial
performance goals.  The actual number of shares to be issued will be
determined upon completion of the performance period, assuming there is no
accelerated vesting for, among other things, a termination of employment under
certain circumstances, or a change in control, and could range from 98,832 to
an additional 659,188 shares over the  target  number of shares if the maximum
performance threshold associated with the performance share units is met by the
Company and/or its subsidiaries, as applicable. 
Stock-based compensation related to the performance share units is
recorded based upon the estimated probable outcome at the end of the
performance period.  During the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the estimated probable number of shares
to be issued at the end of the performance period was increased by 91,310
shares and 381,440 shares, respectively. 
At December 31, 2008, the estimated number of probable shares to be
issued, net of forfeitures, increased by 401,750 shares to a total of 641,832
shares.  

In
2006, the Share-Based Awards granted included 164,095 performance awards at a
weighted average grant date fair value of approximately $25.39 per share.  At December 31, 2008, there were 157,195
unvested performance share units outstanding, net of actual forfeitures,
related to this 2006 grant.  The 157,195 units represent the current
 target  number of shares of priceline.com common stock that may be issued to
employees if the Company achieves certain financial performance versus a peer group
of companies.  During the year ended December 31,
2006, the estimated probable number of shares to be issued at the end of the
performance period was increased by 328,190 shares.  Based upon results achieved during the
performance period which ended as of December 31, 2008, the Company
estimates that 471,585 shares will be issued in the first quarter 2009 related
to these performance share units.  

100  

Table
of Contents   

At
December 31, 2007, 46,459 shares were unvested for the PIL Share Based
Awards.  All shares vested during
2008.  The weighted average grant date
fair value of priceline.com International restricted stock based on exchange
rates as of December 31, 2008 was $26.45 per share.  During the years ended December 31, 2007
and 2006, 20,228 and 23,382 shares of priceline.com International restricted
stock vested with a total grant date fair value of approximately $0.7 million
and $0.8 million, respectively.  

5.                                           RESTRUCTURING  

At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had a restructuring liability of
$1.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively, for the estimated remaining costs
related to leased property vacated by the Company in 2000. During the first
quarter of 2006, the Company recorded a $0.1 million restructuring charge based
upon a re-evaluation of the estimated disposal costs related to the vacated
leased property.  The Company estimates
that, based on current available information, the remaining net cash outflows
associated with its restructuring related commitments will be paid in
2009-2011. The current portion of the restructuring accrual in the amount of
$0.7 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007 is recorded in  Accrued
expenses and other current liabilities  and the non-current portion of $0.3
million and $0.5 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is
recorded in  Other long-term liabilities  on the Company s Consolidated Balance
Sheet.  

6.                                           INVESTMENTS  

The
following table summarizes, by major security type, the Company s short-term
investments as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):  

Long-term
investments amounting to $0.2 million and $2.5 million as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively, were comprised of corporate notes with a maturity
date greater than one year and are included in  Other assets  on the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheet.   During the
year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary
impairment in the value of a corporate note included in long-term investments
in the amount of $0.8 million.  The loss
is recorded in  Foreign currency transactions and other  in the Company s
Consolidated Statement of Operations. The long-term investments are recorded
net of unrealized losses of approximately $0.2 million as of December 31,
2007.  There were no material realized
gains or losses related to investments for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006.  

101  

Table
of Contents   

The
Company s short-term investments as of December 31, 2007 were as follow
(in thousands):  

7.             FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  

Effective
January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS 157, which defines fair value as
the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date.  The standard describes
three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:  

Level 1:           Quoted prices in active markets that are accessible by the Company at
the measurement date for identical assets and liabilities. 

  Level 2:           These prices are not directly accessible by the Company.  Such prices may be based upon quoted prices
in active markets or inputs not quoted on active markets, but corroborated by
market data. 

  Level 3:           Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is
available. 

Financial
assets and liabilities carried at fair value as of December 31, 2008 are
classified in the table below in the categories described above:  

Fair
values for investments in U.S. Treasury and foreign government securities are
considered  level 1  valuations because the Company has access to quoted prices
in active markets as of the measurement date.  
Fair values for other investments are considered  level 2  instrument
valuations because they are obtained from professional pricing sources for
these or comparable instruments, rather than direct observation of quoted
prices in active markets.  As of December 31,
2008, the Company did not have any  level 3  assets or liabilities without
observable market values that would require a high level of judgment to
determine fair value. The Company s derivative instruments are valued using
pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms as well as
multiple inputs where applicable, such as interest rate yield curve, option
volatility and currency rates. The Company s derivative instruments are
typically short-term in nature.  

102  

Table
of Contents   

As
of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of the Company s cash and cash
equivalents approximated their fair value and consisted primarily of AAA-rated
U.S. Treasury money market funds, foreign government securities and bank
deposits.  

8.                                           ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE RESERVES  

The Company accrues for costs associated with purchases made on its
websites by individuals using fraudulent credit cards and for other amounts
 charged back  as a result of payment disputes. 
The Company also records a provision for uncollectible agency
commissions principally receivable from hotels related to agency
reservations.  Changes in accounts
receivable reserves consisted of the following (in thousands):  

The
increased bad debt provision in 2008 was due to slower payment of agency
commissions by hotels and to reflect the potential for increased losses
resulting from the worldwide recession and the related impact on the financial
health of our hotel partners. In addition, the Company incurred $1.5 million of
credit card chargebacks associated with the bankruptcy of two airline suppliers
and a higher level of chargeback activity at Agoda, which the Company acquired
in November 2007.  

9.             NET INCOME PER SHARE  

The
Company computes basic and diluted net income per share in accordance with SFAS
No. 128,  Earnings per Share.  Basic net income per share is calculated by
dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted net income per share is based upon the weighted
average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the
period.  

Common
equivalent shares related to stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock
units, performance share units and warrants are calculated using the treasury
stock method. Performance share units are included in the weighted average
common equivalent shares based on the number of shares that would be issued if
the end of the reporting period were the end of the performance period, if the
result would be dilutive. The warrants underlying Series B Preferred Stock
were considered for inclusion in fully diluted net income per share using the
 if-converted  method.  

The
Company s convertible debt issues have net share settlement features requiring
the Company upon conversion to settle the principal amount of the debt for cash
and the conversion premium for cash or shares of the Company s common stock.
Pursuant to EITF 90-19,  Convertible Bonds with Issuer Options to Settle for
Cash upon Conversion,  the convertible notes are included in the calculation of
diluted net income per share if their inclusion is dilutive under the treasury
stock method.  

Prior
to the Company executing an exchange offer in November 2006 that modified
certain terms in the 1% Notes and 2.25% Notes, such notes were convertible into
a fixed amount of common stock if certain specified conditions were met.
Pursuant to EITF 04-08  Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted
Earnings per Share , these convertible notes were included in the calculation
of diluted earnings per share if their inclusion was dilutive to earnings per
share under the  if-converted  method for the year ended December 31,
2006.  

103  

Table
of Contents   

A
reconciliation of net income and the weighted average number of shares
outstanding used in calculating diluted earnings per share is as follows (in
thousands):  

Anti-dilutive
potential common shares for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006 includes approximately 4.0 million shares, 7.9 million shares and 9.3
million shares, respectively, that could be issued under the Company s
convertible debt if the Company experiences substantial increases in its common
stock price. Under the treasury stock method, the convertible notes will
generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share if the Company s
average stock price for the period exceeds the conversion price for the
convertible notes. As an example, at stock prices of $40 per share, $60 per
share, $80 per share and $100 per share, common equivalent shares would include
approximately 0.1 million, 3.3 million, 5.0 million and 6.0 million equivalent
shares, respectively, related to the convertible notes (excluding the
offsetting impact of the Convertible Spread Hedges   see Note 13).  The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the
effective conversion price of the Company s Convertible Senior Notes due September 30,
2011 and September 30, 2013 from $40.38 to $50.47 per share from the
Company s perspective and are designed to reduce potential dilution upon
conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes at maturity.  Since the
beneficial impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is anti-dilutive it is
excluded from the calculation of net income per share.  

10.               PROPERTY AND
EQUIPMENT  

Property and equipment at December 31,
2008 and 2007 consists of the following (in thousands):  

104  

Table of Contents   

Fixed
asset depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $14.4 million,
$11.8 million and $10.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.  

11.                                    INTANGIBLE
ASSETS AND GOODWILL 

The
Company s intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):  

Intangible assets with
determinable lives are amortized on a straight-line basis.  Intangible assets amortization expense was
approximately $28.8 million, $25.7 million and $24.8 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

The annual estimated
amortization expense for intangible assets for the next five years and
thereafter is expected to be as follows (in thousands):  

A
substantial majority of the Company s goodwill relates to its acquisitions of
Booking.com Limited in 2004, Booking.com B.V. in 2005 and subsequent purchases
of the minority interest in their parent company, priceline.com International.  

105  

Table
of Contents   

A
roll forward of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007
consists of the following (in thousands):  

Impairment
tests performed in 2008 and 2007 did not result in any adjustments to the
carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets.  

12.                                     OTHER ASSETS  

Other assets at December 31,
2008 and 2007 consist of the following (in thousands):  

Investment in pricelinemortgage.com represents the Company s 49% equity
investment in pricelinemortgage.com and, accordingly, the Company recognizes
its pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s operating results, not to exceed
an amount that the Company believes represents the investment s estimated fair
value.  The Company recognized
approximately $311,000, $321,000 and $80,000 of losses from its investment in
pricelinemortgage.com for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively.  The Company earned
an insignificant amount of advertising fees from pricelinemortgage.com for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

Deferred debt issuance costs arose from the Company s issuance of $125
million aggregate principal amount of 1% Notes in August 2003, $100
million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% Notes in September 2004,
$172.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% Notes in September 2006,
$172.5 million of aggregate principal amount 0.75% Notes in September 2006
and a $175 million revolving credit facility in September 2007.  Deferred debt issuance costs are being
amortized using the effective interest rate method over the term of
approximately five years, except for the 0.75% Notes, which are amortized over
their term of seven years.  The period of
amortization for the Company s debt issue costs was determined at inception of
the related debt agreements to be the stated maturity date or the first stated
put date, if earlier.  Debt issuance
costs written off in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to early
conversion of convertible debt amounted to $0.9 million.  

Long-term investments amounting to $0.2 million and $2.5 million as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively, were comprised of corporate notes and U.S.
government securities with a maturity date greater than one year.  

106  

Table
of Contents   

13.           DEBT  

Revolving Credit Facility   

In
September 2007, the Company entered into a $175 million five-year
committed revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, which is secured,
subject to certain exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on
substantially all of the Company s assets and related intangible assets located
in the United States.  In addition, the Company s obligations under the
revolving credit facility are guaranteed by substantially all of the assets and
related intangible assets of the Company s material direct and indirect domestic
and foreign subsidiaries.  Borrowings
under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at the Company s
option, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) JPMorgan Chase
Bank, National Association s prime lending rate and (b) the federal funds
rate plus   of 1%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%; or at
an adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing
plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%.  Undrawn balances available under the
revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate
ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%.  

The
revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50.0 million of
letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as
swingline loans, which are available in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling
and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans
made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate
purposes.  As of December 31, 2008,
there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility and the Company has
issued approximately $2.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving
credit facility.  

Convertible Debt   

The
Company s convertible debt is convertible into the Company s common stock
subject to certain conditions.  Based
upon the closing price of the Company s common stock for the prescribed
measurement periods during the three months ended December 31, 2008 and
2007, the contingent conversion thresholds on each of the Company s convertible
senior note issues were exceeded. As a result, the notes are convertible at the
option of the holder as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and, accordingly,
have been classified as a current liability on the Company s Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of those dates. 
However, contingencies continue to exist regarding the holders  ability
to convert such notes in future quarters. 
The determination of whether or not the notes are convertible must
continue to be performed on a quarterly basis. 
Consequently, the convertible debt may not be convertible in future
quarters, and therefore may again be classified as long-term debt, if the
contingent conversion thresholds are not met in such quarters.  In cases where holders decide to convert prior
to the maturity date or first stated put date, the Company writes off the
proportionate amount of remaining debt issue costs.  If the note holders exercise their option to
convert, the Company would deliver cash to repay the principal amount of the notes
and would deliver cash or shares of common stock, at its option, to satisfy the
conversion value in excess of the principal amount.  

In
the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately $125.0 million aggregate
principal amount of the 1% Notes, $37.9 million aggregate principal amount of
2011 Notes, $14.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes and $30,000
of the 2.25% Notes were converted.  The
Company delivered cash of $176.9 million to repay the principal amount and
issued 2,264,136 shares in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of
the principal amount.  The Company also
received notices of conversion from the holders of approximately $8.0 million
of the 2.225% Notes, which are expected to be settled in the first quarter of
2009.  In August 2008, the Company
exercised its right to redeem the 1% Notes, however, the holders of all of the
then-outstanding 1% Notes tendered their notes for conversion prior to the
redemption date.  Debt issuance costs
written off in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to converted debt
amounted to approximately $0.9 million.  
As of December 31, 2008, the estimated market value of the
outstanding senior notes was approximately $742 million.  Substantially all of the   

107  

Table
of Contents   

market
value of the Company s debt in excess of the carrying value relates to the
conversion premium on the bonds.  

Convertible
debt consists of the following as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in
thousands):  

The
$125 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due August 1,
2010, with an interest rate of 1.00% (the  1% Notes ) were convertible, subject
to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion price of
approximately $40.00 per share. Prior to August 1, 2008, the 1% Notes were
convertible if the closing price of the Company s common stock for at least 20
trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the first day of a
conversion period was more than 110% of the then current conversion price of
the 1% Notes, or after August 1, 2008, if the closing price of the
Company s common stock is more than 110% of the then current conversion price
of the 1% Notes.  Both of these
conditions have been met and, as discussed above, holders of all the
outstanding 1% Notes have tendered their 1% Notes for conversion during 2008.  

In
November 2003, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
whereby it swapped the fixed 1% interest on its 1% Notes for a floating
interest rate based on the 3-month U.S. Dollar LIBOR, minus the applicable
margin of 221 basis points, on $45 million notional value of debt. In May 2008,
the Company terminated the swap agreement and received a payment in the amount
of $0.1 million representing the estimated fair value, including net accrued
interest. Hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006. The fair value of the swap as of December 31, 2007
was a liability of approximately $0.1 million and was recorded in accrued
expenses and other current liabilities with a related adjustment to the
carrying value of debt.  

In
2006, the Company issued in a private placement $172.5 million aggregate
principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011, with
an interest rate of 0.50% (the  2011 Notes ), and $172.5 million aggregate
principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013, with an
interest rate of 0.75% (the  2013 Notes ). 
The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes are convertible, subject to certain
conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion price of
approximately $40.38 per share. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes are convertible,
at the option of the holder, prior to June 30, 2011 in the case of the
2011 Notes, and prior to June 30, 2013 in the case of the 2013 Notes, upon
the occurrence of specified events, including, but not limited to a change in
control, or if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for at
least 20 trading days in the period of the 30 consecutive trading days ending
on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more
than 120% of the applicable conversion price in effect for the notes on the
last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter. In the event that all or
substantially all of the Company s common stock is acquired on or prior to the
maturity of the 2011 Notes or the 2013 Notes, in a transaction in which the
consideration paid to holders of the Company s common stock consists of all or
substantially all cash, the Company would be required to make additional
payments in the form of additional shares of common stock to the holders
of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes, collectively, in aggregate value ranging
from $0 to approximately $45.2 million depending upon the date of the
transaction and the then current stock price   

108  

Table
of Contents   

of the Company.  No
additional payments are due at stock prices in excess of $100 per share.  As of June 30, 2011, with respect to the
2011 Notes, and as of June 30, 2013, with respect to the 2013 Notes,
holders shall have the right to convert all or any portion of such security.
Neither the 2011 Notes nor the 2013 Notes may be redeemed by the Company
prior to maturity. The holders may require the Company to repurchase the
2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes for cash in certain circumstances. Interest on
the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes is payable on March 30 and September 30
of each year.  

In
2006, the Company entered into hedge transactions relating to potential
dilution of the Company s common stock upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and
the 2013 Notes (the  Conversion Spread Hedges ). Under the Conversion Spread
Hedges, the Company is entitled to purchase from Goldman Sachs and Merrill
Lynch approximately 8.5 million shares of the Company s common stock (the
number of shares underlying the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes) at a strike
price of $40.38 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in
2011 and 2013, and the counterparties are entitled to purchase from the Company
approximately 8.5 million shares of the Company s common stock at a strike
price of $50.47 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in
2011 and 2013.  The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective
conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes to $50.47 per share from
the Company s perspective and are designed to reduce the potential dilution
upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. If the market value per
share of the Company s common stock at maturity is above $40.38, the Conversion
Spread Hedge will entitle the Company to receive from the counterparties net
shares of the Company s common stock based on the excess of the then current
market price of the Company s common stock over the strike price of the hedge
(up to $50.47). Holders of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes do not have any
rights with respect to the Conversion Spread Hedges. The Conversion Spread
Hedges are separate transactions entered into by the Company with the
counterparties, are not part of the terms of the Notes and will not affect
the holders  rights under the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. The Conversion
Spread Hedges are exercisable at dates coinciding with the scheduled maturities
of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes. The Conversion Spread Hedges do not immediately
hedge against the associated dilution from conversions of the Notes prior to
their stated maturities.  Therefore, if the holders of the 2011 Notes or
the 2013 Notes elect to convert all or a portion of their notes prior to
maturity, the Company will be obligated to immediately deliver any related
conversion premium in shares of common stock or a combination of cash and
shares.  However, the hedging counterparties will not be obligated to
deliver the Company shares or cash that would offset the dilution associated
with the early conversion activity until 2011 and 2013.  Because of this
potential timing difference, it is possible that the number of shares, if any,
that the Company receives from its Conversion Hedge Spread could differ materially
from the number of shares, if any, that it is required to deliver to holders of
the Notes upon their early conversion.  This potential difference in
timing potentially makes the hedges ineffective, which could negatively impact
the Company s future diluted shares outstanding and diluted earnings per share.  

The
$100 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due January 15,
2025, with an interest rate of 2.25% (the  2.25% Notes ) are convertible,
subject to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion
price of approximately $37.95 per share. The 2.25% Notes will be convertible
if, on or prior to January 15, 2020, the closing sale price of the
Company s common stock for at least 20 consecutive trading days in the period
of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the first day of a conversion period
is more than 120% of the then current conversion price of the 2.25% Notes. The
2.25% Notes are also convertible in certain other circumstances, such as a
change in control of the Company. In the event that all or substantially all of
the Company s common stock is acquired on or prior to January 15, 2010, in
a transaction in which the consideration paid to holders of the Company s
common stock consists of all or substantially all cash, the Company would be
required to make additional payments in the form of common shares to the
holders of the 2.25% Notes of amounts ranging from $0 to $10.5 million
depending upon the date of the transaction and the then current stock price of
the Company. Based on the stock price at December 31, 2008, the Company
would be required to make $2.5 million in additional payments.  In addition, the 2.25% Notes will be
redeemable at the Company s option beginning January 20, 2010, and the
holders may require the Company to repurchase the 2.25% Notes on   

109  

Table
of Contents   

January 15, 2010, 2015
or 2020, or in certain other circumstances. Interest on the 2.25% Notes is
payable on January 15 and July 15 of each year.  

14.           TREASURY STOCK  

In
the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $50 million of the Company s common stock from time to time
in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In addition, in the
third quarter of 2006, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to an additional $150 million of the Company s common stock
with a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Notes and the 2013
Notes. The Company s Board of Directors has also given the Company the general
authorization to repurchase shares of its common stock to satisfy employee
withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation.  

Under
these programs, the Company repurchased approximately 4.1 million shares of its
common stock at an aggregate cost of $134.7 million in the year ended December 31,
2006, at prevailing market prices. Repurchases of 38,640, 43,358 and 40,496
shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $4.4 million, $2.6 million and
$1.1 million were made in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively, to satisfy employee withholding taxes related to
stock-based compensation.  

The
Company may make additional repurchases of shares under its stock
repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses
of capital and other factors. Whether and when to initiate and/or complete any
purchase of common stock and the amount of common stock purchased will be
determined in the Company s complete discretion. As of December 31, 2008,
there were approximately 6.7 million shares of the Company s common stock held
in treasury.  

15.           REDEEMABLE PREFERRED
STOCK  

There
were 13,470 shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding as of December 31,
2006, with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $13.5 million
and a semi-annual dividend requirement of 40,240 shares of common stock.  In the first quarter of 2007, Delta Air Lines, Inc.
exercised warrants to purchase 756,199 shares of the Company s common stock by
surrendering 13,470 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, representing all
of the remaining outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock.  In the three months ended March 31,
2007, the Company issued a final pro-rated dividend to Delta Airlines, Inc.
in the amount of 34,874 shares of common stock. The exercise of the warrant was
a non-cash transaction.  The Company
recorded non-cash dividends of approximately $1.6 million and $1.9 million for
the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

16.           MINORITY INTERESTS  

In
connection with the Company s acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005
and Booking.com Limited in September 2004 and the reorganization of its
European operations, key managers of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited
purchased shares of priceline.com International.  In addition, these key managers were granted
restricted stock and restricted stock units in priceline.com International
shares that vested over time.  

The
holders of the minority interest in priceline.com International had the right
to put their shares to the Company and the Company had the right to call their
shares at a purchase price reflecting the fair value of the shares at the time
of the exercise of the put or call right.  Subject to certain exceptions,
the shares were subject to the put and call options in March and August 2008. 
In April 2008, in connection with the March 2008 put and call
options, the Company repurchased 62,020 shares underlying minority interest
with a carrying value of $3.6 million for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $30.9 million based upon fair value.   In September 2008, in connection with
the August 2008 put and call options, the Company repurchased all of the
remaining outstanding 253,693 shares underlying minority interest with a
carrying value of $17.4 million for an aggregate purchase price of   

110  

Table
of Contents   

approximately
$123.2 million based upon fair value.  In
2007 and 2006, the Company repurchased shares underlying minority interest with
a carrying value of $13.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively, for an
aggregate purchase price of $76.0 million and $19.8 million, respectively,
based upon fair value.  As a result of
the September 2008 purchase, there is no longer any minority interest in
priceline.com International.  The
purchases have been accounted for as step acquisitions and accordingly, the
excess of the purchase price over the carrying value is recorded as an increase
of intangible assets, deferred income taxes and goodwill based upon preliminary
estimated values.  

17.           INCOME TAXES  

Domestic pre-tax income was
$85.6 million, $25.9 million and $27.6 million for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 
Foreign pre-tax income was $210 million, $119.1 million and $34.5
million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  

The
income tax expense (benefit)  for the year ended  December 31, 2008 is as follows (in
thousands): 

The  income tax expense (benefit) for the year ended December 31, 2007 is
as follows (in thousands): 

The  income tax expense (benefit) for the year ended December 31, 2006 is
as follows (in thousands): 

At
December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $3 billion of net
operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs ) for U.S. federal income tax purposes
mainly expiring from December 31, 2019 to 2021.  The utilization of these NOL s is subject to
limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and is also
dependent upon the Company s ability to generate sufficient future taxable
income.  

111  

Table
of Contents   

Section 382
imposes limitations on the availability of a company s net operating losses
after a more than 50 percentage point ownership change occurs.  The Section 382 limitation is based upon
certain conclusions pertaining to the dates of ownership changes and the value
of the Company on the dates of the ownership changes.  As a result of a study, it was determined
that ownership changes, as defined in Section 382, occurred in 2000 and
2002.  The amount of the Company s net
operating losses incurred prior to each ownership change is limited based on
the value of the Company on the respective dates of ownership change.  It is estimated that the effect of Section 382
will generally limit the total cumulative amount of net operating loss
available to offset future taxable income to approximately $1.5 billion.  Pursuant to Section 382, subsequent
ownership changes could further limit this amount.  

As required by SFAS No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes,  the Company periodically evaluates the
likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduces the carrying
amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent it
believes a portion will not be realized. The Company considers many factors
when assessing the likelihood of future realization of the deferred tax assets,
including its recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction,
expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available for tax
reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Based upon such assessments, in
the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company recorded non-cash
income tax benefits in the amount of $47.9 million and $28.1 million, respectively,
resulting from a reversal of a portion of its valuation allowance on its
domestic deferred tax assets.  In addition, the Company recognized $3.6
million of deferred tax assets in 2007 related to foreign capital allowance
deductions that are considered more likely than not to be realized.  Despite robust growth in the Company s
domestic earnings during 2008, the valuation allowance has not been reduced due
to the inherent uncertainty and the likely negative potential impact the
worldwide recession will have on our future operating results and future
realization of our deferred tax assets. 
The deferred tax asset at December 31, 2008 and 2007 amounted to
$196.0 million and $232.6 million, respectively.  It is more likely than not that the remaining
deferred tax assets will not be realized and, accordingly, a valuation
allowance remains against those assets.  The valuation allowance may need
to be adjusted in the future if facts and circumstances change, causing a
reassessment of the amount of deferred tax assets more likely than not to be
realized.  

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2008 and
2007 are as follows (in thousands):  

The
Company has recorded a deferred tax liability in the amount of $48.9 million
and $46.5 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily
related to the assignment of estimated fair value to certain purchased
identifiable intangible assets associated with the acquisitions of Booking.com
Limited, Booking.com B.V. and priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly
known as the   Agoda Company, Ltd.)  .  Income tax benefits in the amount of $1.3
million and $3.0 million, respectively, were recorded in 2007 and 2006
resulting from the impact on deferred taxes of enacted reductions in certain
foreign statutory tax rates.  At December 31,
2008, no provision had been made for U.S. taxes on   

112  

Table of Contents   

approximately
$268.0 million of foreign earnings that are expected to be reinvested
indefinitely.  Estimating the tax
liability that would arise if these earnings were repatriated is not
practicable at this time.  

The
valuation allowance decreased by approximately $5 million for the year ended December 31,
2008, primarily as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of
$7 million on the Company s foreign net operating loss carryforwards, partially
offset by $2 million additional valuation allowance recognized on a foreign net
operating loss.  The valuation allowance
decreased by approximately $62 million and $38 million for the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, resulting primarily from a reversal of a portion
of its valuation allowance to adjust the estimated amount of deferred tax
assets more likely than not to be realized.  

At
December 31, 2008, the Company has approximately $667.2 million of state
net operating loss carryforwards that expire mainly between 2020 and 2021, 3.4
million of foreign net operating loss carryforwards that expire in 2028, and
approximately $76.1 million of foreign net operating loss carryforwards and
$5.8 million of foreign capital allowance carryforwards that do not
expire.    At December 31, 2008, the
Company also had approximately $1.4 million of U.S. research credit
carryforwards that expire from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020
and are also subject to annual limitation. 
  Approximately $1.9 billion of the federal NOL tax benefits were
generated through equity-related transactions, including equity-based
compensation and stock warrants and would be a recorded as an increase to
additional paid-in capital if subsequently utilized.  

The
effective income tax rate of the Company is different from the amount computed
using the expected U.S. statutory federal rate of 35% as a result of the
following items (in thousands):  

The
Company accounts for uncertain tax positions pursuant to the provisions of 
FASB issued Interpretation No. 48,  Uncertainty in Income Taxes  ( FIN
48 ). FIN 48 applies to all  income
tax positions and provides
for a two-step approach of recognition and measurement. The first step involves
assessing whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon
examination based upon its technical merits. The second step involves
measurement of the amount to recognize. Tax positions that meet the more likely
than not threshold are measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is
greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate finalization with the
taxing authority. The Company believes
that its income tax filing positions and deductions will be sustained on audit
and does not anticipate any
adjustments that will result in a material adverse effect on the Company s
financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.  Therefore, no reserves for uncertain income tax
positions have been recorded pursuant to FIN 48. 

113  

Table
of Contents   

The
Company s U.K., Netherlands, U.S. Federal and Connecticut income tax returns,
constituting the returns of the major taxing jurisdictions, are subject to
examination by the taxing authorities for all open years as prescribed by
applicable statute. No income tax waivers have been executed that would extend
the period subject to examination beyond the period prescribed by statute.  

18.           COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

Litigation
Related to Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes   

Statewide Class Actions and Putative Class Actions   

A
number of cities and counties have filed class actions or putative class
actions on behalf of themselves and other allegedly similarly situated cities
and counties within the same respective state against the Company and other
defendants, including, but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb
LLC, both of which are subsidiaries of the Company, and Hotels.com, L.P.;
Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.; Cheaptickets, Inc.; Travelport, Inc.
(f/k/a Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.); Expedia, Inc.;
Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC;
Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.;
Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  Each complaint alleges, among other things,
that the defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax
ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes
under each ordinance.  Each complaint
typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law,
attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such
actions include:  

City
of Los Angeles v. Hotels.com, Inc., et al.  :  On December 30,
2004, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Superior Court for the
County of Los Angeles by the City of Los Angeles on behalf of itself and an
alleged class of California cities, counties and other municipalities that have
enacted occupancy taxes.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under
California Business and Professions Code   17200, et seq. ( Section 17200 ).  On August 31, 2005, the City of Los
Angeles filed an amended complaint adding a claim for a declaratory
judgment.  On September 26, 2005,
the court sustained the defendants  demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims, and therefore, dismissed the amended complaint, with
leave to file a second amended complaint. 
On February 8, 2006, the City of Los Angeles filed a second amended
complaint that asserts the same claims but includes additional allegations of
fact.  On March 27, 2006, at the
direction of the court, the defendants filed renewed demurrers to the second
amended complaint on grounds of improper joinder of defendants and claims.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
a petition to coordinate this matter with the City of San Diego case (discussed
below).  On July 12, 2006, that
petition was granted, and, as a result, this case and the City of San Diego
case will now proceed in the Superior Court of Los Angeles.   On January 17, 2007, the defendants
filed demurrers to the City of Los Angeles  second amended complaint on all
issues other than misjoinder of defendants and claims.  On March 1, 2007, the court denied
defendants  previously-filed demurrers on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims.  On March 2,
2007, the City of Los Angeles filed a third amended complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the defendants filed
renewed demurrers to the third amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s third amended complaint
without prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City has not yet
completed those administrative procedures. 

City
of Rome, Georgia, et al., v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On November 18,
2005, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia by the City of Rome, Hart County and
the City of Cartersville on behalf of themselves and a putative class of
Georgia cities, counties and governments which have enacted transient occupancy
taxes and/or excise taxes on lodging.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of
Georgia s Uniform Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act, conversion, unjust
enrichment, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On February 6, 2006, the Company and
certain other  

114  

Table
of Contents   

defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On May 8,
2006, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss all claims relating to
the Georgia sales and use tax and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the
excise tax claims.  The plaintiffs filed
an amended complaint on June 7, 2006 naming additional plaintiffs.  On February 9, 2007, the defendants
moved for summary judgment on the plaintiffs  claims for plaintiffs  failure to
exhaust the administrative procedures required by Georgia law and plaintiffs 
respective ordinances.  On May 10,
2007, the court denied the defendants  motion but concluding that plaintiffs
were required to estimate, assess and attempt to collect the taxes at
issue.  The court stayed further
litigation to permit plaintiffs to comply with those administrative procedures.  On March 26, 2008, certain of the
plaintiffs in the  City of Rome  action sent the
defendants, including the Company and its subsidiaries, proposed assessments of
hotel occupancy tax.  The Company and its
subsidiaries promptly responded on March 31, 2008.  Certain of the plaintiffs in the  City of Rome  action sent the defendants, including the
Company and its subsidiaries, renewed assessments.  The administrative process of those
plaintiffs remains ongoing and the action remains stayed pending the decision
of the Georgia Supreme Court in  City of Atlanta, Georgia
v. Hotels.com L.P., et al . (described below).  

Pitt
County v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On December 1, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the North Carolina General Court
of Justice, Superior Court Division by Pitt County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of North Carolina political subdivisions that impose occupancy
taxes.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for violation of North Carolina General Statute
  75-1, et seq., conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory
judgment.  On February 13, 2006, the
defendants removed this action to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.  On March 13,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 29, 2007, the court denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On April 13, 2007, the defendants moved for reconsideration of that
decision or, in the alternative, interlocutory appeal.  On August 13, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion for reconsideration of the court s prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss, and dismissed the action in its entirety.  On September 6, 2007, Pitt County filed
a notice of appeal of that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit.  On January 14,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed the
district court s decision rejecting Pitt County s tax claims.  On January 27, 2009, the County filed a
petition for re-hearing en banc.  On February 10,
2009, the petition for re-hearing en banc was denied. 

City
of San Antonio, Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On May 8,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Texas, San Antonio Division, by the City of
San Antonio on behalf of itself and putative classes of Texas
municipalities.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claim for conversion and a declaratory
judgment.  On June 30, 2006, the
Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On August 28, 2006, the plaintiff moved
for class certification.  Following
briefing of the motion to dismiss and motion for class certification, on October 30,
2006, the plaintiff filed a first amended complaint that limited the putative
classes of Texas municipalities to 175 specifically enumerated municipalities
that plaintiff alleges to have hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to that
of the plaintiff.  On March 21,
2007, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the City of San Antonio s
amended complaint.  On September 7,
2007, the defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s March 21,
2007 order denying the defendants  motion to dismiss, and that motion was
denied on October 1, 2007.  On May 27,
2008, the court granted the City of San Antonio s motion to certify a class of
175 specifically enumerated Texas municipalities that the City alleges to have
hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to it. 
On June 10, 2008, the defendants petitioned the United States Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for interlocutory review of the class
certification decision, which petition was denied on July 3, 2008.  On August 12, 2008, the court granted
plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to add equitable claims of
unjust enrichment, money had and received, and for a constructive trust.  Plaintiff amended its complaint on August 13,
2008 and the defendants answered the amended complaint on August 27,
2008.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

115  

Table
of Contents   

Lake
County Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc. and Marshall County v.
Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On June 12, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Indiana, Hammond Division, by the Lake County Convention and Visitors Bureau
and Marshall County on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Indiana
counties, convention and visitors bureaus and any other local governments which
have enacted or benefit from taxes on innkeepers.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and breach of fiduciary
duties.  On November 3, 2006, the
Company and other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On July 14, 2008, the court denied the
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On July 28, 2008, the defendants answered the complaint.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On September 21,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Kentucky by the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government on behalf of itself and a putative class of Kentucky cities,
counties and townships that have enacted transient room taxes.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, money had and received, unjust enrichment,
a constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment.  On December 15, 2006, the plaintiff
moved to amend the complaint to make certain changes to the identity of the
defendants. That motion was granted, and, on January 8, 2007, plaintiff
filed its amended complaint.  On December 22,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the original complaint, and, on January 17,
2007, renewed their motion to dismiss with respect to the amended
complaint.  On August 10, 2007, the
court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss. 
On September 13, 2007, the defendants answered.  On October 26, 2007, the defendants
filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s order denying the defendants 
motion to dismiss, or, in the alternative, certification of interlocutory
appeal to the Kentucky Supreme Court or the United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit.  On November 9,
2007, the plaintiff moved to strike the defendants  motion for
reconsideration.  On February 20,
2008, the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government ( Lexington ) filed a
motion to intervene in this action as an additional plaintiff, which the
defendants did not oppose.  On March 20,
2008, Lexington s motion was granted, and its intervening complaint was filed
on April 16, 2008.  Lexington s
intervening complaint makes substantially the same claims asserted by the
Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government, except it does not seek to
represent a class.  On March 21,
2008, the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government filed an unopposed
motion to amend its complaint to withdraw its allegations relating to the
proposed certification of a class of Kentucky cities, counties and townships
that have enacted transient room taxes, and to make certain other changes to the
alleged facts.  That motion was granted
on June 6, 2008 and the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government was
ordered to file an amended complaint.  On
May 16, 2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the intervening complaint
filed by the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government.  On September 30, 2008, the court granted
the defendants  motion for reconsideration of its prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss the claims brought by the Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government, and dismissed all of that plaintiff s claims.  The court also granted the defendants  motion
to dismiss the claims brought by the Lexington-Fayette Urban County
Government.  The court dismissed all
claims against the defendants with prejudice. 
Both plaintiffs have filed notices of appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. 

County
of Nassau, New York v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On October 24,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of New York by Nassau County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New York cities, counties and other local governmental
entities that have imposed hotel taxes since March 1, 1995.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment and a constructive
trust.  On January 31, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On August 17, 2007, the court granted the defendants  motion to
dismiss the complaint for the County of Nassau s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On September 12, 2007, the County of
Nassau filed a notice of appeal of that order to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.  On January 22,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, heard oral
argument on the County s appeal of the lower court s order dismissing the
action and ordered further briefing on certain issues. 

116  

Table
of Contents   

City
of Jefferson, Missouri v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On June 27,
2007, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Cole
County, Missouri by the City of Jefferson, Missouri on behalf of itself and a
putative class of Missouri cities, counties and governments that have enacted
taxes on lodging.  In addition to the
claim for hotel taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for violation of the
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment,
declaratory judgment, breach of fiduciary duties and a constructive trust.  On November 5, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On June 19,
2008, the court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss in part and denied it
in part.  The court dismissed the claim
for violation of the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, but did not dismiss
the remaining claims.  On July 21,
2008, the defendants answered the complaint. 

City
of Gallup, New Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On July 6,
2007, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of New Mexico by the City of Gallup on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New Mexico taxing authorities that have enacted lodgers 
taxes.  The complaint asserts claims for
violation of the New Mexico Lodger s Tax Act and municipal ordinances.  On August 27, 2007, the defendants
answered the City of Gallup s complaint. 
On January 8, 2009, the City filed an unopposed motion to amend its
complaint to narrow its class allegations and to seek injunctive relief.  On February 2, 2009 the defendants
answered the amended complaint. The parties are currently conducting discovery. 

City
of Jacksonville v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  In July 2006,
a putative class action was filed in the Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial
Circuit, in and for Duval County, Florida, by the City of Jacksonville on
behalf of itself and a putative class of Florida counties that collect tourist
development taxes and/or convention development taxes and that have elected
self administration of such taxes.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion,
unjust enrichment, a constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment.  On August 21, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint for the City of Jacksonville s
failure to exhaust its mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.
On September 10, 2007, the City of Jacksonville moved for a stay of
proceedings pending the outcome of that administrative process.  That motion was denied on October 31,
2007 and the case was closed.   No appeal
was taken by the City of Jacksonville. 
On July 1, 2008, the City of Jacksonville filed a first amended
complaint.  The proposed first amended
complaint asserts only a declaratory judgment claim related to the defendants 
alleged liability for tourist development taxes and/or convention development
taxes.  On July 15, 2008, the
defendants moved to dismiss and to strike the amended complaint.   On July 30, 2008, the plaintiff filed a
motion to amend its complaint.  Those
motions are pending. 

The
City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.  :  On June 2,
2008, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Middle District of Tennessee by the City of Goodlettsville and the City of
Brentwood, Tennessee on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Tennessee
political subdivisions that impose a tax on the privilege of occupancy of a
hotel or other lodging establishment.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust
enrichment and conversion.  On August 7,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  That motion is pending.  On Oct. 2, 2008, the City of Brentwood,
Tennessee voluntarily dismissed its claims, and the case will proceed with the
City of Goodlettsville as the sole plaintiff. 

The
Township of Lyndhurst, New Jersey v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.  :  On June 18,
2008, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey by the Township of Lyndhurst on behalf of itself and
a putative class of New Jersey political subdivisions that impose hotel
occupancy taxes.   In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, conversion, a
constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment. 
On August 19, 2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  That motion is pending. 

117  

Table
of Contents   

County
of Monroe, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc. et al   : On January 12,
2009, the County filed a purported class action complaint in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Florida. In addition to claims with
respect to the application of the Tourist Development Tax, the complaint also
asserted claims for conversion and unjust enrichment. The defendants have not
yet answered the complaint.  

The
Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the
proceedings described above.  

Actions Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities and Counties   

Several
cities, counties, municipalities and other political subdivisions across the
country have filed actions relating to the collection of hotel occupancy taxes
against the Company and other defendants, including, but not in all cases,
Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC, both of which are subsidiaries of the
Company, and Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.;
Cheaptickets, Inc.; Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.;
Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com);
Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC;
Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  In each, the complaint alleges, among other
things, that each of these defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective
hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of
amounts to cover taxes under each ordinance. 
Each complaint typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement,
penalties available by law, attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such actions include:  

City
of Findlay v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al   and  City of Columbus, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al. :  On October 25, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Common Pleas Court of Hancock County, Ohio by
the City of Findlay on behalf of itself and a putative class of Ohio cities, counties
and townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes on lodging.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for violation of the Ohio Consumer Sales Practices Act,
conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On November 22, 2005, the Company and
certain other defendants removed this action to the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio. 
On July 26, 2006, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss
the Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and denied defendants  motion to
dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 8,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio by the cities of Columbus and Dayton on
behalf of themselves and a putative class of Ohio cities, counties and
townships.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, money had and
received, conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.   On July 10, 2007, defendants  motion to
transfer the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Ohio, where the  City of Findlay 
case is pending was granted.  On July 23,
2007, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the plaintiffs  Consumer
Sales Practices Act claims and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the
remaining claims.  On August 2,
2007, the City of Findlay filed a motion seeking leave to amend its complaint
to withdraw its allegations seeking to assert claims on behalf of a state-wide
class of Ohio cities, counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or
excise taxes on lodging.  On August 15,
2007, the court granted that motion and an amended complaint withdrawing those
class allegations was filed.  On August 31,
2007, the defendants answered the  City of Columbus c omplaint.   On September 4, 2007, the defendants
answered the  City of Findlay  amended
complaint.  On November 6, 2007, the
parties  joint motion to consolidate the  City of Findlay 
action with the  City of Columbus  action for
pre-trial purposes was granted.   On February 19,
2008, the cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay moved to amend their
respective complaints to drop all class action allegations and to add nine
additional Ohio municipalities as plaintiffs.  
That motion was granted on February 27, 2008, and the plaintiffs 
first amended consolidated complaint was filed that day.  On March 26, 2008, the defendants moved
to dismiss the first amended consolidated complaint.  On June 19, 2008, the court denied the
defendants  motion.  On July 3,
2008, the defendants answered the first amended consolidated complaint.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

118  

Table of Contents   

City
of Chicago, Illinois v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al  .:  On November 1,
2005, the City of Chicago, Illinois filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, imposition of
a constructive trust, and a demand for a legal accounting.  On January 31, 2006, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On September 27,
2007, the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On November 2, 2007, the defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
currently conducting discovery. 

City
of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.  :  On February 9,
2006, the City of San Diego, California filed a complaint in Superior Court for
the County of San Diego, California.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition
claims under Section 17200.  On March 31,
2006, the defendants filed with a petition to coordinate this matter with the  City of Los Angeles  case (discussed above).  On July 12, 2006, that petition was
granted, and, as a result, this case was coordinated with the  City of Los Angeles  action and will proceed in the Superior
Court of Los Angeles.  As discussed
above, on March 1, 2007, the court denied defendants  previously-filed
demurrers to the City of Los Angeles  Second Amended Complaint on misjoinder
grounds, which the parties deemed applicable to the City of San Diego s
complaint.  On January 17, 2007, the
defendants filed demurrers to the City of San Diego s complaint on all issues
other than misjoinder of defendants and claims. 
On March 8, 2007, the City of San Diego filed an amended
complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the
defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss the amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  demurrers and dismissed the City s amended complaint without
prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City is presently
conducting those administrative procedures. 

City
of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.  :  On March 29,
2006, the City of Atlanta, Georgia filed a complaint in the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for a declaratory judgment,
conversion, unjust enrichment, a constructive trust and a demand for an
equitable accounting.  On June 5,
2006, certain defendants, including the Company and its subsidiaries, answered
the complaint.  The parties proceeded to
conduct discovery.  On October 12,
2006, as directed by the court, the defendants submitted briefs regarding the
City of Atlanta s failure to exhaust the administrative remedies dictated by
Georgia law and its own ordinance.  On December 12,
2006, the court dismissed the City of Atlanta s action for lack of jurisdiction
because the City of Atlanta failed to exhaust mandatory administrative remedies
prior to bringing suit.  On January 10,
2007, the City of Atlanta filed a notice of appeal to the court s order
deciding it lacked jurisdiction.  On October 26,
2007, the Georgia Court of Appeals affirmed the order of the Georgia Superior
Court.  On November 5, 2007, the
City moved for reconsideration of the October 26, 2007 opinion, and that
motion was denied on November 13, 2007. 
On December 10, 2007, the City filed a petition for certiorari with
the Georgia Supreme Court. On May 20, 2008, the Georgia Supreme Court
granted certiorari to certain questions raised by plaintiff from the October 26,
2007 decision of the Georgia Court of Appeals affirming the dismissal of this
action.   On September 8, 2008, the
Georgia Supreme Court heard the plaintiff s appeal from the October 26,
2007 decision of the Georgia Court of Appeals affirming the dismissal of this
action.  The Company is awaiting the
decision of the Georgia Supreme Court. 

City
of Charleston, South Carolina v. Hotel.com, et al.  :  On April 26,
2006, the City of Charleston, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of
Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, a constructive trust and a demand for a
legal accounting.  On May 31, 2006,
defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the
District of South Carolina, Charleston Division.  On July 7, 2006, the defendants answered
the complaint.  On January 23, 2007,
the City of Charleston moved to amend the complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.   On April 23, 2007, the court granted
plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and plaintiff amended its
complaint to assert such claims on May 14, 2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court granted
defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this 

119  

Table of Contents   

case
with  Town of Mount Pleasant  (discussed
below).  On June 4, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5, 2007, the court denied
that motion.  The parties are currently
conducting discovery.  

Town
of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, et al.  :  On May 23,
2006, the Town of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court
of Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On July 21, 2006, the defendants removed
the case to the United States District Court for the District of South
Carolina, Charleston Division.  On September 15,
2006, the defendants answered the complaint. 
On January 22, 2007, the Town of Mount Pleasant moved to amend the
complaint to assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade
Practices Act.  On April 23, 2007,
the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert
claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and
plaintiff amended its complaint to assert such claims on May 14,
2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court
granted defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  City of Charleston  (discussed above).  On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the court denied that motion.  On November 30,
2007, the defendants answered the amended complaint.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery. 

City
of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On August 28,
2006, the City of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the
Court of Common Pleas, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On October 27, 2006, the Company and
certain other defendants removed the case to the United States District Court
for the District of South Carolina, Florence Division.  On December 1, 2006, the defendants
filed their motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On September 30, 2007, the court denied that motion.  On January 29, 2008, the City of North
Myrtle Beach moved to amend its complaint to assert claims arising under the
South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.  
On June 25, 2008, the court granted the plaintiff s motion to amend
its complaint to assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade
Practices Act.  On August 1, 2008,
the plaintiff filed an amended complaint asserting claims arising under the
South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act. 
On August 15, 2008, the defendants answered the amended
complaint.  The parties are currently
conducting discovery. 

Wake
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.; Dare County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al and
Buncombe County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al  :  On November 3,
2006, Wake County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of
Justice, Superior Court Division, Wake County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy
Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq. ,
and breach of agency duties and statutory penalties. On January 31, 2007,
the defendants moved to dismiss this action. 
On February 1, 2007, the defendants moved to designate the case as
a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina
Business Court, to which plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to
the Business Court.   On January 26,
2007, Dare County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court alleging
the same claim.  On February 1,
2007, Buncombe County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court.  The Buncombe complaint seeks a declaratory
judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes, as well as supplemental
relief including, without limitation, an accounting and a determination of the
amount of taxes due but unpaid.  On April 4,
2007, the  Wake County, Buncombe County and Dare County 
actions were consolidated for pre-trial purposes, and the following discussion
applies to all four actions.  On May 7,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the  Dare County and Buncombe
County  actions.  On November 19,
2007, the court granted in part and denied in part the motions to dismiss the
three actions.  The court dismissed all
claims for conversion, all claim for violation of North Carolina General
Statute   75-1, et seq.  The remaining
claims brought by the other three plaintiffs survived the defendants  motions.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery. 

City
of Branson v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.  :  On December 28, 2006, the
City of Branson, Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Greene
County, Missouri.  In addition to the
claim for Tourism Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory
judgment, conversion and a legal accounting. 
On April 23, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint,
and that motion was denied on  

120  

Table
of Contents   

November 26,
2007.  The defendants answered the
complaint on December 20, 2007.  The
parties are presently conducting discovery.  

Horry
County, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On February 2,
2007, Horry County, South Carolina and the Horry County Administrator filed a
complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment
that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and that the plaintiffs are
entitled to other relief, including penalties and interest.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.  On March 18,
2008, the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On May 9, 2008, the defendants answered
the complaint.  On August 14, 2008,
the defendants moved to dismiss the plaintiff s declaratory judgment claims,
and that motion was denied on September 17, 2008.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

City
of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  : On February 2, 2007, the City of
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas,
Horry County.  The complaint seeks a
declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and
that the plaintiff is entitled to other relief, including penalties and
interest.  On April 23, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On December 11, 2007, the court heard argument on that motion,
along with the motion in the Horry County action (discussed above). On August 14,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the plaintiff s declaratory judgment
claims, and that motion was denied on September 17, 2008.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

City
of Houston, Texas v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.  :  On March 5, 2007, the City of Houston,
Texas filed a petition (i.e., a complaint) in the District Court of Harris
County, Texas.  In addition to the claim for violation of the Houston
hotel occupancy tax ordinance, the petition also asserted claims for
conversion, constructive trust, civil conspiracy, and a legal accounting. 
On April 30, 2007, the defendants filed special exceptions, seeking to
dismiss the petition.  On July 5, 2007, the court denied in part
and granted in part the defendants  special exceptions.  The court denied
the special exceptions relating to the adequacy of the plaintiff s allegations,
but granted the special exceptions requiring the plaintiff to state with
specificity the maximum amount of damages claimed.  On October 2,
2007, the City of Houston filed an amended petition adding the Harris
County Sports Authority as a plaintiff.  On October 15, 2007, the
Company and the other defendants filed renewed special exceptions to the
complaint and affirmative defenses.  On November 19, 2007, the court
granted those special exceptions. On January 22, 2008, the plaintiffs
filed a second amended petition.  On February 4, 2008, the Company
and the defendants filed renewed special exceptions to the petition and moved
to dismiss the action.  On March 13, 2008, the court granted the
defendants  special exceptions and dismissed the action.  On April 14,
2008, the plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to have their petition reinstated,
which was granted on May 27, 2008. 

City
of Oakland, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On June 29,
2007, the City of Oakland, California filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
City of Oakland s Transient Tax Ordinance, the complaint also asserted unfair
competition claims under California Business and Professions Code   17200,  et seq. , and claims for conversion, unjust enrichment,
punitive damages, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On September 18, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On November 6,
2007, the court granted the defendants  motion and dismissed the City of
Oakland s complaint with prejudice for the City s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On December 5, 2007, the City of Oakland
filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The plaintiff s appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
remains pending.  On July 16, 2008,
the Company and Lowestfare.com LLC received audit notices from the City.  On August 4, 2008, the Company and
Lowestfare.com LLC responded and requested a hearing before the City s Business
Tax Board of Review.  That hearing
request remains pending. 

121  

Table
of Contents   

Mecklenburg
County v. Hotels.com LP, et al.  :  On January 14, 2008,
Mecklenburg County filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior
Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for room occupancy
taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1, et seq., and breach of
agency duties and statutory penalties. 
At the time it filed the complaint, Mecklenburg also moved to designate
the case as a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North
Carolina Business Court.  On February 19,
2008, this action was consolidated with  Wake County ,
which is discussed in further detail above. 
On May 15, 2008, the court granted in part and denied in part the
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint, adopting the reasoning of the
court s prior opinion on the motion to dismiss in the  Wake County 
action. 

City
of Baltimore, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.  :  On December 10,
2008, the City filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the
District of Maryland.  In addition to
claims for declaratory and injunctive relief with respect to the application of
the City s Hotel Room Tax, the complaint also asserted claims for
conversion, unjust enrichment, assumpsit, constructive trust, and punitive
damages.  The defendants have not yet
answered the complaint. 

County
Commissioners of Worcester, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.  :  On January 6,
2009, the County filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the
District of Maryland.  In addition to the
claim for violation of the County s Hotel Room Tax, the complaint also
asserted claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and assumpsit.  The defendants have not yet answered the
complaint. 

The Company has also been
informed by counsel to the plaintiffs in certain of the aforementioned actions
that various, undisclosed municipalities or taxing jurisdictions may file
additional cases against the Company, Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC in
the future.  Some municipalities or
taxing jurisdictions have sent the Company and/or its subsidiaries tax notices
or demands, including Brunswick County and Stanly County, North Carolina;
Jefferson County, Arkansas; City of North Little Rock, Arkansas; and the Pine
Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission.  

The Company intends to
defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings described above.  

Judicial Actions Relating to Assessments Issued by Individual Cities
and Counties   

After
administrative remedies have been exhausted, the Company may seek judicial
review of assessments issued by an individual city or county.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
et al. v. Broward County, Florida  :  In May 2008, the Company
and Travelweb LLC received assessments from the County.  On June 19, 2008, the Company and
Travelweb LLC submitted formal protests of the assessments.  In July 2008, the Company and Travelweb
LLC received additional audit requests from the County.  On November 13, 2008, the Company s and
Travelweb LLC s protests were denied.  On
January 13, 2009, the Company and Travelweb LLC filed suit in the Circuit
Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and for Leon County, Florida, against
the County and the Florida Department of Revenue challenging the
assessments.  The County and the
Department of Revenue answered and filed a counterclaim on February 2,
2009.  In addition to claims for
injunctive relief with respect to the County s tourist development tax, the
counterclaim also asserted claims for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion and
statutory civil theft.  The counterclaim
defendants have not yet answered the counterclaim. 

Priceline.com
Inc. et al. v. City of Anaheim et al.   :  In May 2008, the Company, Travelweb LLC and
Lowestfare.com LLC received assessments from the City.  On June 2, 2008, the
companies submitted formal protests of the assessments.  On February 6, 2009, the City-appointed
hearing officer issued a ruling upholding the determination that the companies
were liable for the Transient Occupancy Tax, but reducing the amounts of the
assessments issued.  On February 11, 2009,
the Company and Travelweb LLC   

122  

Table of Contents   

filed suit in Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Orange, against the City and the
hearing officer challenging the assessments and the liability determination. On
February 18, 2009, the Company and Travelweb LLC joined a motion filed by
Expedia, Inc. seeking a ruling that the Company does not have to pay the amount
assessed by the City until resolution of the matter by the courts.  

The Company intends to
prosecute vigorously its claims in these actions.  

Consumer Class Actions   

Two
purported class actions brought by consumers were pending against the Company:  

Marshall,
et al. v. priceline.com, Inc.  :  On February 17, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
Delaware for New Castle County by Jeanne Marshall and three other individuals
on behalf of themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated
consumers nationwide against the Company. 
The complaint alleged that the Company violated the Delaware Consumer
Fraud Act, Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6,   2511,  et seq. ,
relating to its disclosures and charges to customers to cover taxes under city
hotel occupancy tax ordinances nationwide, and service fees.  The Company moved to dismiss the complaint on
April 21, 2005.  On June 10,
2005, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that asserts claims under the Delaware
Consumer Fraud Act and for breach of contract and the implied duty of good
faith and fair dealing.  On October 31,
2006, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to
dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims
arising under the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. 
The court also dismissed all claims for breach of contract and the
implied duty of good faith and fair dealing that relate to the Company s
charges for service fees.  The court
denied the Company s motion to dismiss the breach of contract and implied duty
of good faith and fair dealing claims as they relate to the Company s charges
to consumers to cover taxes under city hotel occupancy tax ordinances.  On February 1, 2008, two of the four
plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against the Company.  On February 29, 2008, the remaining
plaintiffs moved for leave to amend their complaint to assert additional claims
for breach of contract and the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing
alleging that the Company included a hidden fee within its room rate
charge.  On August 28, 2008, the
court granted plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend.  The plaintiffs filed their second amended
complaint on September 12, 2008, and the Company answered that complaint
on September 26, 2008.  The parties 
summary judgment motions have been submitted and a hearing was held in January 2009;
the Company is awaiting the court s ruling. 

Chiste,
et al. v. priceline.com Inc., et al.  :  On December 11, 2008, a
putative class action was filed by plaintiff Matthew R. Chiste and two other
individuals on behalf of themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly
situated consumers nationwide against the Company, Lowestfare.com, Inc.
and Travelweb, LLC.  The complaint
alleges the defendants overcharge consumers by collecting Hotel Occupancy and
sales taxes over and above that necessary to pay the actual taxes on the hotel
room reserved by the customer.  The
complaint asserts claims for deceptive business practices, declaratory and
injunctive relief, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of
contract.  Defendants have not yet
answered the complaint. 

The Company intends to
defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings described above.  

Administrative Proceedings and Other Possible Actions   

At various times the Company
has also received inquiries or proposed tax assessments from municipalities and
other taxing jurisdictions relating to its charges and remittance of amounts to
cover state and local hotel occupancy and other related taxes.  Among others, the City of Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania; Miami-Dade County, Florida; the City of Anaheim, California; the
City of Phoenix, Arizona; the City of San Francisco, California; and state tax
officials from Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Indiana, have begun formal or
informal administrative procedures or stated that they may assert claims
against the Company relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel occupancy
or related taxes.  The City   

123  

Table
of Contents   

of
San Francisco, California, and the Indiana Department of Revenue have each
issued assessments from which the Company intends to appeal to a court of competent
jurisdiction.  

Litigation
Related to Securities Matters   

On March 16, March 26,
April 27, and June 5, 2001, respectively, four putative class action
complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York naming priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul
Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston Robertson Stephens, Inc.
and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants (01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576,
01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).  Shives  et al . v. Bank of America Securities LLC  et al ., 01 Civ. 4956, also names other
defendants and states claims unrelated to the Company.  The complaints allege, among other things,
that priceline.com and the individual defendants violated the federal
securities laws by issuing and selling priceline.com common stock in
priceline.com s March 1999 initial public offering without disclosing to
investors that some of the underwriters in the offering, including the lead
underwriters, had allegedly solicited and received excessive and undisclosed
commissions from certain investors.  By
Orders of Judge Mukasey and Judge Scheindlin dated August 8, 2001, these
cases were consolidated for pre-trial purposes with hundreds of other cases, which
contain allegations concerning the allocation of shares in the initial public
offerings of companies other than priceline.com, Inc.  By Order of Judge Scheindlin dated August 14,
2001, the following cases were consolidated for all purposes:  01 Civ. 2261; 01 Civ. 2576; and 01 Civ.
3590.  On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs
filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint in these cases.  This Consolidated Amended Class Action
Complaint makes similar allegations to those described above but with respect to
both the Company s March 1999 initial public offering and the Company s August 1999
second public offering of common stock. 
The named defendants are priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock,
Jay S. Walker, Paul E. Francis, Nancy B. Peretsman, Timothy G. Brier, Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Goldman Sachs   Co., Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., Robertson Stephens, Inc.
(as successor-in-interest to BancBoston), Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. (as
successor-in-interest to Donaldson Lufkin   Jenrette Securities
Corp.), Allen   Co., Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc.  Priceline.com, Richard Braddock, Jay Walker,
Paul Francis, Nancy Peretsman, and Timothy Brier, together with other issuer
defendants in the consolidated litigation, filed a joint motion to dismiss on July 15,
2002.  On November 18, 2002, the
cases against the individual defendants were dismissed without prejudice and
without costs.  In addition, counsel for
plaintiffs and the individual defendants executed Reservation of Rights and
Tolling Agreements, which toll the statutes of limitations on plaintiffs 
claims against those individuals.  On February 19,
2003, Judge Scheindlin issued an Opinion and Order granting in part and denying
in part the issuer s motion.  None of the
claims against the Company were dismissed. 
On June 26, 2003, counsel for the plaintiff class announced that
they and counsel for the issuers had agreed to the form of a Memorandum of
Understanding (the  Memorandum ) to settle claims against the issuers.  The terms of that Memorandum provide that
class members will be guaranteed $1 billion in recoveries by the insurers of
the issuers and that settling issuer defendants will assign to the class
members certain claims that they may have against the underwriters.  Issuers also agree to limit their abilities
to bring certain claims against the underwriters.  If recoveries in excess of $1 billion are
obtained by the class from any non-settling defendants, the settling
defendants  monetary obligations to the class plaintiffs will be satisfied; any
amount recovered from the underwriters that is less than $1 billion will be
paid by the insurers on behalf of the issuers. 
The Memorandum, which is subject to the approval of each issuer, was
approved by a special committee of the priceline.com Board of Directors on
Thursday, July 3, 2003.  Thereafter,
counsel for the plaintiff class and counsel for the issuers agreed to the form
of a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement with Defendant Issuers and
Individuals ( Settlement Agreement ). 
The Settlement Agreement implements the Memorandum and contains the same
material provisions.  On June 11,
2004, a special committee of the priceline.com Board of Directors authorized
the Company s counsel to execute the Settlement Agreement on behalf of the
Company.  The Settlement Agreement was
submitted to the Court for approval. 
Subsequently, the Second Circuit reversed the District Court s granting
of class certification in certain of the related class actions.  As a result, the parties entered into a
stipulation and order dated June 25, 2007 which terminated the Settlement
Agreement.  The Company intends to defend
vigorously against the claims in all of these proceedings.  

124  

Table
of Contents   

On May 3, 2007, the Company entered into a
Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement ( Settlement Agreement ) to settle a
class action lawsuit brought after its announcement that third quarter 2000
revenues would not meet expectations. 
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the class received $80
million in return for a release, with prejudice, of all claims against the
Company and the individual defendants (the  Settling Defendants ) that are
related to the purchase of the Company s securities by class members during the
class period.  The Company s insurance
carriers funded $30 million of the settlement. 
As a result, the Company recorded a net charge in the year ended 2007 of
approximately $55.4 million representing its share of the cost to settle
the litigation and cover related expenses.  

The
Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the
proceedings described in this Note 18. 
The Company has accrued for certain legal contingencies where it is
probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
estimated.  Except as disclosed, such
amounts accrued are not material to the Company s consolidated balance sheets
and provisions recorded have not been material to the consolidated results of
operations.  The Company is unable to
estimate the potential maximum range of loss.  

From time to time, the Company has been and expects to continue to be
subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business,
including claims of alleged infringement of third party intellectual property
rights.  Such claims, even if not
meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, divert management s attention from the Company s business
objectives and could adversely affect the Company s business, results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

Employment Contracts   

The
Company has employment agreements with certain members of senior management
that provide for cash severance payments of up to approximately $19 million,
accelerated vesting of equity instruments, including without limitation,
restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units upon,
among other things, death or a termination without  cause  or  good reason , as
those terms are defined in the agreements, and a gross-up for the payment of
 golden parachute  excise taxes.  In
addition, certain of the agreements provide for the extension of health and
insurance benefits after termination for periods of up to three years.  

Operating Leases   

The
Company leases certain facilities and equipment through operating leases.
Rental expense for operating leases was approximately $6.4 million, $4.4
million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. The Company s executive, administrative, operating offices
and network operations center are located in approximately 92,000 square feet
of leased office space located in Norwalk, Connecticut.    The Company also leases
approximately 45,670 of office space in Grand Rapids, Michigan.    Booking.com Limited leases
approximately 11,000 square feet of office space primarily in Cambridge,
England.  Booking.com B.V. leases
approximately 102,000 square feet of office space primarily in Amsterdam,
Netherlands.  Agoda leases approximately
20,000 square feet of office space primarily in Bangkok, Thailand.  The Company also leases office space in 13
other countries in support of its international operations.  Minimum payments for operating leases having
initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows
(in thousands):  

125  

Table
of Contents   

Airline Excise Tax Refund   

The
online travel industry received guidance in the fourth quarter of 2006 in the
form of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the fee earned by
online intermediaries in connection with the facilitation of the purchase of
airline tickets is not subject to Federal Excise Tax.  Due to the prior
lack of clear guidance related to the application of federal excise taxes to
amounts earned by online travel intermediaries, the Company historically
remitted such taxes on the amounts it earned for facilitating the purchase of
airline tickets.  The tax at issue was on the amounts earned by the
Company and was not added to the ticket price paid by its customers. 
Accordingly, the Company sought refunds of the taxes it paid while the on-line
travel industry pursued clarification on the issue.  The Company recorded refunds received in the
amount of $18.6 million in revenue, plus $3.3 million of interest income during
the year ended December 31, 2007.  

Contingent Purchase Price   

On
November 6, 2007, the Company and a newly-formed, indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% of the total share capital of   priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the   Agoda
Company, Ltd.)   ( Agoda ) and AGIP LLC.  The purchase price for the acquisition,
including acquisition costs, consists of an initial purchase price payable by
the Company in cash of approximately $16 million and up to an additional $141.6
million in cash, which is payable by the Company if Agoda achieves the maximum
 gross bookings  and earnings targets from January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2010.  The contingent consideration, if
any, related to this acquisition will be recorded to goodwill as an additional
purchase price adjustment when the contingency is resolved.  

On
December 21, 2007, the Company acquired 100% of the total issued share capital
of an online advertising company for approximately $4.1 million in cash,
including acquisition costs.  The Company
could be required to pay an additional amount of up to $3.8 million in cash
each year from 2008 through 2010, if the acquired company achieves certain
performance targets.  Based upon 2008
results, the Company recorded a liability and increased goodwill by $1.5
million in December 2008 to reflect this purchase price adjustment.  

19.          BENEFIT PLAN  

Priceline.com
has a defined contribution 401(k) savings plan (the  Plan ) covering all
U.S. employees who are at least 21 years old. The Plan allows eligible
employees to contribute up to 75% of their eligible earnings, subject to a
statutorily prescribed annual limit.  All
participants are fully vested in their contributions and investment earnings.
As of January 1, 2007, the Company instituted a 50% match of employee
contributions up to 6% of qualified compensation.   The Company also maintains
certain other defined contribution plans outside of the United States for which
it provides 50% of the contributions for participating employees.   The   Company s matching
contributions during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006   were
approximately $1.1 million, $0.9 million and $0.1 million, respectively.  

126  

Table of Contents   

20.                                   GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION  

The geographic information
is based upon the location of Company s subsidiaries (in thousands).  

127  

Table
of Contents   

21.          SELECTED QUARTERLY
FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)  

(1) The Company recorded charges of $54.9
million, $0.4 million and $0.1 million in the first, second and third quarters
of 2007, respectively, related to a litigation settlement.  

(2) The Company recorded an income tax benefit
in the third quarter of 2007 of $47.9 million resulting from a reversal of a
portion of the valuation allowance on its deferred tax asset.  

128  

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
EXHIBITS   

In
reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding
their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure
information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements.  The agreements contain representations and
warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.  These representations and warranties have
been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable
agreement and:  

should not in all instances be treated as
categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to
one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; 

have been qualified by disclosures that
were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the
applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the
agreement; 

may apply standards of materiality in a way
that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other
investors; and 

were made only as of the date of the
applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the
agreement and are subject to more recent developments. 

Accordingly,
these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of
affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional
information about the Company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
and the Company s other public filings, which are available without charge
through the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov.  

Exhibit 
  Number   

Description   

2.1(m)  

Share Sale and
  Purchase Agreement, dated July 14, 2005 by and between the Registrant,
  ACME Limited and Blue Sky Investments B.V.  

2.2(o)  

Articles of
  Association of priceline.com International Limited, as amended.  

3.1(a)  

Amended and
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant.  

3.2(b)  

Certificate of
  Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
  Registrant  

3.3(a)  

By-Laws of the
  Registrant.  

4.1  

Reference is
  hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.  

4.2(a)  

Specimen
  Certificate for Registrant s Common Stock.  

4.3(a)  

Amended and
  Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 8, 1998,
  among the Registrant and certain stockholders of the Registrant.  

4.4(b)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2003, among the Registrant and
  the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.5(b)  

Indenture, dated
  as of August 1, 2003, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.6(b)  

Supplemental
  Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2003, between the Registrant and
  American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.7(d)  

Second
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.8(c)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004, among priceline.com
  Incorporated and the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.9(c)  

Indenture, dated
  as of June 28, 2004, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.10(d)  

First
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.11(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A
  Convertible Redeemable PIK Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.12(b)  

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series B
  Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

129  

Table of Contents   

4.13(u)  

Indenture, dated as of September 27, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.14(u)  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2006,
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as
  representative of the Initial Purchasers.  

4.15(w)  

Indenture relating to New 1.00% Notes, dated as of November 6,
  2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and
  Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.16(w)  

Indenture relating to New 2.25% Notes, dated as of November 6,
  2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust
  Company, as Trustee.  

10.1(a)+  

1997 Omnibus
  Plan of the Registrant.  

10.2(e)+  

1999 Omnibus
  Plan of the Registrant, as amended.  

10.3(f)+  

Priceline.com
  2000 Employee Stock Option Plan.  

10.4(e)+  

Form of
  Stock Option Grant Agreement.  

10.5(e)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants to Board of Directors.  

10.6(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.).  

10.7(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.).  

10.8(g)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement with covenants (U.S.).  

10.9(g)+  

Restricted Stock
  Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the
  Registrant.  

10.10(h)+  

Stock Option and
  Restricted Stock Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, by and between the
  Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.11(g)+  

Restricted Stock
  Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and the
  Registrant.  

10.12  (  i)+  

Employment Agreement, dated February 8, 2006, by and between the
  Registrant and Peter J. Millones.  

10.13(i)+  

Form of
  priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for
  Non-Employee Directors.  

10.14(j)*  

Formation and Funding Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2000, by
  and between the Registrant and Alliance Partners, L.P.  

10.15(k)  

Restructuring Agreement,
  dated as of October 3, 2003, between Hutchison-Priceline Limited, Trio
  Happiness Limited and PCLN Asia, Inc.  

10.16(k)  

Amended and
  Restated Securityholders  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003, among
  Hutchison-Priceline Limited, PCLN Asia, Inc. and Trio Happiness Limited.  

10.17(k)  

Master
  Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003, between Credit Suisse First
  Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.18(k)  

Schedule to the
  Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003 between Credit Suisse
  First Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.19(k)  

Letter
  Agreement, dated November 26, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston
  International and priceline.com Incorporated.  

10.20(k)  

Securities
  Purchase Agreement dated as of May 3, 2004, between Lowestfare.com
  Incorporated, Hilton Electronic Distribution Systems, LLC, HT-HDS, Inc.,
  MI Distribution, LLC, Starwood Resventure LLC, Pegasus Business Intelligence,
  LP and Travelweb LLC.  

10.21(l)  

Sale and
  Purchase Agreement dated September 21, 2004 by and among Priceline.com
  Holdco U.K. Limited and the security holders of Active Hotels Limited listed
  therein.  

10.22(n)+  

Stock Option
  Grant Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna.  

10.23(n)+  

Indemnification
  Agreement, dated June 2, 2005, by and between the Registrant and
  Marshall Loeb.  

10.24(p)+  

Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between the
  Registrant and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.25(p)+  

Restricted Stock Grant Agreement, dated October 19, 2005,
  reflecting grant of restricted stock to Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.26(q)+  

Form of Registrant s 1999 Omnibus Plan Award Agreement  
  Restricted Stock Units for Employees in the Netherlands.  

10.27(r)+  

Form of Performance Share Agreement under the priceline.com
  Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan.  

10.28(s)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated September 5, 2006, among
  priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II
  thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.29(t)  

Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2006, between
  priceline.com Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as
  representative of the Initial Purchasers.  

10.30(t)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated
  as of September 21, 2006.  

10.31(t)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated
  as of September 21, 2006.  

10.32(t)  

Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and
  priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.33(t)  

Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction
  between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com
  Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.34(v)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year
  Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs  
  Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and
  Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between
  Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.35(v)  

Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year
  Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
  Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com  

130  

Table of Contents   

Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of
  7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch,
  Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated,
  dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.36(x)  

Underwriting Agreement, dated December 4, 2006, among
  priceline.com Incorporated, the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II
  thereto and Goldman, Sachs   Co.  

10.37(y)+  

Priceline.com
  Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated as of February 20, 2007.  

10.38(z)  

Stipulation and
  Agreement of Settlement between P. Warren Ross, Thomas Linton, and John
  Anderson and the class and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  May 3, 2007.  

10.39(aa)  

Credit Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 among
  priceline.com Incorporated, RBC citizens, National Association, and Bank of
  Scotland plc as co-documentation Agents, bank of America, N.A. as syndication
  Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as Administrative Agent.  

10.40(aa)  

Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 by
  and among priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
  Association.  

10.41(aa)  

Guaranty dated as of September 26, 2007 by each of the
  subsidiaries of priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
  Association.  

10.42(bb)*  

Equity Purchase Agreement by and among priceline.com Mauritius Co.
  Ltd, priceline.com Incorporated and the shareholders of Agoda Company Ltd.
  and members of AGIP LLC dated November 6, 2007.  

10.43(cc)+  

Performance share
  unit agreement dated December 1, 2007.  

10.44(  dd)*+  

Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under
  the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company s
  consolidated operations.  

10.45(  dd)*+  

Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under
  the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company s
  domestic operations on an unconsolidated basis.  

10.46(  dd)*+  

Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under
  the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of Agoda Company
  Ltd., Agoda Company Pte. Ltd. and Agoda Services Co. Ltd.  

10.47(  ee)+  

priceline.com
  Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective
  June 4, 2008).  

10.48(  ff)+  

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to non-U.S.
  participants under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended.  

10.49(  gg)+  

Separation Agreement, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Stef Norden.  

10.50(  gg)+  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated August 22, 2008,
  by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd.  

10.51(  gg)+  

Performance share unit agreement, by and between priceline.com
  Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd.  

10.52  +  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 18, 2008, to   Amended and Restated
  Employment Agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery
  H. Boyd.  

10.53  +  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18,
  2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Robert J. Mylod.  

10.54  +  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18,
  2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Peter J. Millones.  

10.55  +  

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18,
  2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Chris Soder.  

10.56+  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 16, 2008, to   Letter agreement, dated
  October 19, 2005 by and between priceline.com and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.57+  

Amended and Restated Employment Contract, by and between Booking.com
  B.V. and Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen.  

12.1  

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

14(k)  

Priceline.com Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  

21  

List of Subsidiaries.  

23.1  

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP.  

24.1  

Power of Attorney (included in the Signature Page).  

31.1  

Certificate of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 302 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  

Certificate of   Daniel J. Finnegan  , pursuant to
  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1(hh)  

Certification of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 906 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of
  Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code).  

32.2(hh)  

Certification of   Daniel J. Finnegan  , pursuant to
  Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and
  (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code).  

131  

Table of Contents   

(i)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on February 8, 2006.  

(j)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
  March 31, 2000.  

(k)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2003.  

(l)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2004.  

(m)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on July 20, 2005.  

(n)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on June 3, 2005.  

(o)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on September 29, 2005.  

(p)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on October 21, 2005.  

(q)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on November 8, 2005.  

(r)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
  March 31, 2006.  

(s)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on September 7, 2006.  

(t)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on September 27, 2006.  

(u)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on September 28, 2006.  

(v)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on October 16, 2006.  

(w)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on November 9, 2006.  

(x)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on December 8, 2006.  

(y)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the form 8-K filed on February 23, 2007.  

(z)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on May 4, 2007.  

(aa)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30,
  2007.  

(bb)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007  

(cc)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2007.  

(dd)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on March 11, 2008.  

(ee)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on June 6, 2008.  

(ff)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
  September 30, 2007.  

(gg)  

Previously filed
  as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on August 6, 2008.  

(hh)  

This document is
  being furnished in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8212 and 34-47551.  

*  

Certain portions
  of this document have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment
  request filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2. The omitted
  confidential material has been filed separately with the Commission.  

+  

Indicates a
  management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  

132  

<EX-10.52>
 2
 a09-1364_1ex10d52.htm
 EX-10.52

Exhibit 10.52   

December 18, 2008  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

  c/o priceline.com Incorporated  

  800 Connecticut Avenue  

  Norwalk, CT 06854  

Dear
Jeff:  

This letter serves to amend an incorrect
cross-reference in Section 16 of the amended and restated employment
agreement between you and priceline.com Incorporated (the    Company   ), dated August 22,
2008 (the    Employment
Agreement   )  . 
Capitalized terms that are used herein shall have the same meaning as
those terms used in the Employment Agreement.  

Effective as of the date hereof, the second
sentence of the second paragraph of Section 16(a) shall be amended in
its entirety to read as follows:  

The reduction of the amounts payable
hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing the payments under Section 9(c)(i) or
Section 9(c)(ii), as applicable, in the following order: first, the
payments under clause (A), second, the payments under clause (E), and third,
all other payments ratably.   

Except as otherwise provided herein, the Employment Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.  

Warm Regards,  

/s/ Craig Rydin  

Craig Rydin  

Chairman  

Compensation Committee  

Acknowledged and Agreed: 

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.53>
 3
 a09-1364_1ex10d53.htm
 EX-10.53

Exhibit 10.53   

AMENDED
AND RESTATED 
   EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

AMENDED AND
RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of December 18, 2008 (the   Effective Date  ), by and between Priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation, with its principal office at 800 Connecticut Avenue,
Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the   Company  ), and
Robert Mylod (  Executive  ).  

W     I    T 
 N    E    S    S    E    T    H :  

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and Executive entered into an employment agreement, dated November 20,
2000 (the   Prior Employment Agreement   

WHEREAS  ,
the Company desires that Executive be employed as Vice Chairman and Head of
Worldwide Strategy and Planning of the Company, and the Company and Executive
desire to amend the Prior Employment Agreement to account for the effect of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (  Section 409A of the Code  ) on the agreement; and 

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and Executive desire to replace and supersede the Prior Employment
Agreement in its entirety and enter into this Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement (the   Agreement  ) providing for the
terms of Executive s employment by the Company. 

NOW,
THEREFORE  , in consideration of the premises and mutual
covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
parties agree as follows: 

1 .                 Term of Employment .  Except for earlier termination as provided in
Section 8 hereof, Executive s employment under this Agreement shall
continue on the same basis as set forth in the Prior Employment Agreement and,
as a result, shall end on November 20, 2009 (the   Initial
Employment Term  ), provided that the Initial Employment Term shall
be automatically extended for additional terms of successive one (1) year
periods (each, an   Additional Employment Term  )
unless the Company or Executive gives written notice to the other at least
ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Employment Term or
then-current Additional Employment Term that Executive s employment hereunder
shall not be so extended.  The Initial
Employment Term and each Additional Employment Term shall be referred to herein
as the   Employment Term .  

2 .                Positions .  (a) Executive shall serve
as the Vice Chairman and Head of Worldwide Strategy and Planning of the Company.  Executive shall also serve, if requested by
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as an executive officer and
director of subsidiaries and a director of associated companies of the Company
and shall comply with the policy of the Compensation Committee of the Company s
Board of Directors (the   Compensation Committee  )
with regard to retention or forfeiture of director s fees. 

(b)              Executive shall report
directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and, shall have such
duties and authority, consistent with his then position as shall be assigned to
him from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (the   Board  ) or the Chief Executive Officer of
the Company. 

(c)              During the Employment
Term, Executive shall devote substantially all of his business time and efforts
to the performance of his duties hereunder;  provided, however ,
that Executive shall be allowed, to the extent that such activities do not
materially interfere with the performance of his duties and responsibilities
hereunder, to manage his personal financial and legal affairs and to serve on
corporate, civic, charitable and industry boards or committees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive 

shall only serve on
corporate boards of directors if approved in advance by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.  

3 .                 Base Salary .  Commencing on the Effective Date and
continuing during the remainder of the Employment Term, the Company shall pay
Executive a base salary at the annual rate of not less than $420,000.  Base salary shall be payable in accordance
with the usual payroll practices of the Company.  Executive s Base Salary shall be subject to
annual review by the Board or the Compensation Committee during the Employment
Term and may be increased, but not decreased, from time to time by the Board or
the Compensation Committee.  The base
salary as determined as aforesaid from time to time shall constitute   Base Salary   for purposes of this Agreement. 

4 .                 Incentive
Compensation .  (a)   Bonus .  Executive shall be eligible to participate in
any annual bonus plan the Company may implement at any time during Executive s
Employment Term for senior executives at a level commensurate with his
position. 

(b)               Long Term Compensation .  For each fiscal year or portion thereof
during the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible to participate in any
long-term incentive compensation plan generally made available to senior
executives of the Company at a level commensurate with his position in
accordance with and subject to the terms of such plan. 

(c)               Other
Compensation .  The Company may, upon
recommendation of the Compensation Committee, award to Executive such other
bonuses and compensation as it deems appropriate and reasonable. 

5 .                 Employee Benefits
and Vacation .  (a)  During the
Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all benefit
plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally
provided to comparable senior executives of the Company. 

(b)              During the Employment Term, Executive shall
be entitled to vacation each year in accordance with the Company s policies in
effect from time to time, but in no event less than four (4) weeks paid
vacation per calendar year.  Executive
shall also be entitled to such periods of sick leave as is customarily provided
by the Company for its senior executive employees. 

6 .                 Business Expenses .  The Company shall reimburse Executive for the
travel, entertainment and other business expenses incurred by Executive in the
performance of his duties hereunder, in accordance with the Company s policies
as in effect from time to time;  provided ,
 however , that such expenses must
be paid no later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar
year in which such expenses were incurred and  further
provided  that in no event will the amount of expenses so reimbursed
in one taxable year affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in
any other taxable year. 

7.                 Termination .  (a)  The employment of Executive under
this Agreement shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of any of the
following events: 

(i)           the
death of Executive; 

(ii)          the termination of
Executive s employment by the Company due to Executive s Disability pursuant to
Section 7(b) hereof; 

(iii)         the termination of Executive s
employment by Executive for Good Reason pursuant to Section 7(c) hereof; 

(iv)        the termination of Executive s
employment by the Company without Cause; 

2  

(v)         the termination of
employment by Executive without Good Reason upon sixty (60) days prior written
notice; or 

(vi)        the termination of Executive s
employment by the Company for Cause pursuant to Section 7(e). 

(b)               Disability .  If by reason of the same or related physical
or mental illness or incapacity, Executive is unable to carry out his material
duties pursuant to this Agreement for more than six (6) consecutive
months, the Company may terminate Executive s employment for disability (  Disability  ).  Such termination shall be upon thirty (30)
days written notice by a Notice of Disability Termination, at any time thereafter
while Executive consecutively continues to be unable to carry out his duties as
a result of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity.  A Termination for Disability hereunder shall
not be effective if Executive returns to the full time performance of his
material duties within such thirty (30) day period. 

(c)               Termination for Good Reason .  A Termination for Good Reason means a
termination by Executive by written notice given within ninety (90) days after
the occurrence of the Good Reason event, unless such circumstances are fully
corrected prior to the date of termination specified in the Notice of
Termination for Good Reason (as defined in Section 7(d) hereof).  For purposes of this Agreement,   Good Reason   shall mean the occurrence or failure to cause
the occurrence, as the case may be, without Executive s express written
consent, of any of the following circumstances: 
(i) any material diminution of Executive s positions, duties or
responsibilities hereunder (except in each case in connection with the
termination of Executive s employment for Cause or Disability or as a result of
Executive s death, or temporarily as a result of Executive s illness or other
absence), or, the assignment to Executive of duties or responsibilities that are
inconsistent with Executive s then position; (ii) removal of, or the
non-reelection of, Executive from officer positions with the Company specified
herein without election to a higher position or removal of Executive from any
of his then officer positions; (iii) a relocation of the Company s
executive office in Connecticut  to a
location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more
than thirty-five (35) miles further from Executive s residence at the time of
relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus
plan, program or arrangement in which Executive is entitled to participate (the
  Bonus Plans  ), provided that any such
Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company s discretion from time to time but
shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain
substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if
plans providing Executive with substantially similar benefits are not
substituted therefor (  Substitute Plans  ),
or (B) to continue Executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and
Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus
as Executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in
accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material
breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement, including, without
limitation, Section 12 hereof; or (vi) failure of any successor to
the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by merger, acquisition,
consolidation or otherwise) to assume in a writing delivered to Executive upon
the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company hereunder. 

(d)               Notice of Termination for Good Reason .  A Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall
mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 7(c) relied
upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances
claimed to provide a basis for Termination for Good Reason.  The failure by Executive to set forth in the
Notice of Termination for Good Reason any facts or circumstances which
contribute to the showing of Good Reason shall not waive any right of Executive
hereunder or preclude Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in
enforcing his rights hereunder.  The Notice
of Termination for Good Reason shall provide for a date of termination not less
than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days after the date such Notice of
Termination for Good Reason is given, provided that in the case of the events
set forth in Sections 7(c)(i) or (ii), the date may be five (5) days
after the giving of such notice. 

3  

(e)               Cause .  Subject to the notification provisions of Section 7(f) below,
Executive s employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company for
Cause.  For purposes of this Agreement,
the term  Cause  shall be limited to (i) willful misconduct by Executive
with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the
willful refusal of Executive to attempt to follow the proper written direction
of the Board or a more senior officer of the Company, provided that the
foregoing refusal shall not be  Cause  if Executive in good faith believes that
such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and promptly so notifies the
Board or the more senior officer (whichever is applicable); (iii) substantial
and continuing willful refusal by Executive to attempt to perform the duties
required of him hereunder (other than any such failure resulting from
incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for
substantial performance is delivered to Executive by the Board or a more senior
officer of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which it is
believed that Executive has substantially and continually refused to attempt to
perform his duties hereunder; or (iv) Executive being convicted of a
felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation or as a result of
vicarious liability).  For purposes of
this paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on Executive s part shall be
considered  willful  unless done or omitted to be done, by him not in good
faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best
interests of the Company.  A notice by
the Company of a non-renewal of the Employment Term pursuant to Section 1
hereof shall be deemed an involuntary termination of Executive by the Company
without Cause as of the end of the then Employment Term, but Executive may
terminate at any time after the receipt of such notice and shall be treated as
if he was terminated without Cause as of such date. 

(f)                Notice of Termination for Cause .  A Notice of Termination for Cause shall mean
a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 7(e) relied
upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances which
provide for a basis for Termination for Cause. 
Further, a Notification for Cause shall be required to include a copy of
a resolution duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership
of the Board at a meeting of the Board which was called for the purpose of
considering such termination and which Executive and his representative had the
right to attend and address the Board, finding that, in the good faith of the
Board, Executive engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of Cause herein
and specifying the particulars thereof in reasonable detail.  The date of termination for a Termination for
Cause shall be the date indicated in the Notice of Termination.  Any purported Termination for Cause which is
held by a court not to have been based on the grounds set forth in this
Agreement or not to have followed the procedures set forth in this Agreement
shall be deemed a Termination by the Company without Cause. 

8.                 Consequences of
Termination of Employment . 

(a)               Death .  If, Executive s employment is terminated by
reason of Executive s death, the employment period under this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations to Executive s legal representatives under
this Agreement except for:  (i) any
compensation earned but not yet paid, including and without limitation, any
bonus if declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year, any
amount of Base Salary earned but unpaid, any accrued vacation pay payable
pursuant to the Company s policies, and any unreimbursed business expenses
payable pursuant to Section 6 (collectively   Accrued
Amounts  ), which amounts shall be promptly paid in a lump sum to
Executive s estate; (ii) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive
under the then applicable employee benefit plans, long term incentive plans or
equity plans and programs of the Company which shall be paid or treated in
accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (iii) continuation
of Executive s health benefits for Executive s dependents at the same level and
cost as if Executive were an employee of the Company for twelve (12) months;
and (iv) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target
annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive s death, multiplied by (y) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal
year during which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of
which is 365, which bonus shall be paid in a lump sum when bonuses for such
period are  

4  

paid to the Company s
other executives, but, in any event, in the fiscal year following the fiscal
year in which such bonus is earned.  

(b)               Disability .  Subject to Section 8(e), if Executive s
employment is terminated by reason of Executive s Disability, Executive shall
be entitled to receive the payments and benefits to which his representatives
would be entitled in the event of a termination of employment by reason of his
death plus, to the extent not duplicative of the foregoing, Executive shall be
entitled to the continuation of benefits (including, without limitation,
health, life, disability and pension) for a period of twelve (12) months
following such termination of employment as if Executive had been an employee
of the Company. 

(c)               Termination by Executive for Good Reason
or Termination by the Company without Cause .  (i)  Subject to Section 8(e), if
Executive terminates his employment hereunder for Good Reason during the Employment
Term or Executive s employment with the Company is terminated by the Company
without Cause, Executive shall be entitled to receive (A) in equal
installments paid in accordance with the Company s normal payroll practices
commencing with the first pay period after such termination over a period of
twelve (12) months after such termination an amount equal to two (2) times
the sum of his Base Salary and target bonus, if any, for the year in which such
termination occurs (provided, however, in the event that the Base Salary or
target bonus, if any, has been decreased in the twelve (12) months prior to the
termination, the amount to be used shall be the highest Base Salary and target
bonus, if any, during such twelve (12) month period); (B) any Accrued Amounts
at the date of termination; (C) any other amounts or benefits owing to
Executive under the then applicable employee benefit, long term incentive or
equity plans and programs of the Company, which shall be paid or treated in
accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (D) continuation of
benefits (including, without limitation, health, life, disability and pension)
as if Executive were an employee of the Company for twelve (12) months,
provided that, if such termination is after a Change in Control, the period of
benefit continuation shall be twenty-four (24) months, subject to the terms set forth in Section 8(c)(ii); and (E) if
a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for
the fiscal year of Executive s termination, multiplied by (y) a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during
which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is
365, which bonus shall be paid in a lump sum when bonuses for such period are
paid to the Company s other executives, but, in any event, in the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which such bonus is earned. 

(ii)              With respect to the continuation of group health benefits to Executive
in connection with Executive s termination of employment after a Change in
Control pursuant to Section 8(c)(i)(D), Executive shall pay the full cost
for such group health coverage on an after-tax basis for each month that
Executive elects to retain such coverage by payment of the monthly cost of such
coverage as determined for purposes of health care continuation under Section 4980B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   COBRA Premium  ).  Within five (5) business days of the
date of Executive s termination of employment, the Company shall make a payment
to Executive equal to the number of full and partial months remaining in the
calendar year in which Executive s employment is terminated, multiplied by the
difference between the COBRA Premium for such year and the monthly amount that
Executive was required to pay for group health coverage immediately prior to
his termination of employment.  On each January 2
thereafter until the end of the twenty-four (24) month period, if Executive has
maintained group health coverage through the last day of the preceding calendar
year, the Company shall make a payment to Executive equal to the difference
between the COBRA Premium and the monthly amount that Executive was required to
pay for group health coverage immediately prior to his termination of
employment, multiplied by 12, or, if the period of coverage is for less than a
year, by the number of full and partial months remaining in the year until the
end of the twenty-four (24) month period. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first 18 months following the
date of    Executive s termination of
employment shall be considered to be the period during which Executive shall be
eligible for  

5  

continuation coverage under Section 4980B
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   Code  ).  

(d)               Termination with Cause or Voluntary
Resignation without Good Reason or Retirement .  If, Executive s employment hereunder is
terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or (ii) by Executive without
Good Reason, Executive shall be entitled to receive only his Base Salary
through the date of termination, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable
pursuant to Section 6 and, if such termination is by Executive without
Good Reason, any bonus that has been declared or earned but not yet paid for a
completed fiscal year.  Executive s
rights under all benefits plans and equity grants shall be determined in
accordance with the Company s plans, programs and grants. 

(e)               Separation from
Service .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to
the contrary, if Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A
of the Code) and any payment made pursuant to this Section 8 is considered
to be a  deferral of compensation  (as such phrase is defined for purposes of Section 409A
of the Code) that is payable upon Executive s  separation from service  (within
the meaning of Section 409A of the Code), then the payment date for such
payment shall be the date that is the first day of the seventh month after the
date of Executive s  separation from service  with the Company (determined in
accordance with Section 409A of the Code). 
In addition, if the event triggering Executive s right to benefits or
payments hereunder is Executive s termination of employment, but such
termination of employment does not constitute a  separation from service  with
the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the
benefits or payments hereunder payable by reason of such termination of
employment that are considered to be a  deferral of compensation  under Section 409A
of the Code shall not be paid upon such termination of employment, but instead,
shall remain an obligation of the Company to Executive and shall be paid or
provided to Executive upon the first to occur of the following events: (i) Executive s
 separation from service  (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code)
(any amount payable upon such  separation from service  being subject to the
first sentence of this Section 8(e)); (ii) Executive s disability
(within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code); (iii) a  change of
control  of the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code);
or (iv) Executive s death. 

9.                 No Mitigation; No
Set-Off .  In the event of any
termination of employment hereunder, Executive shall be under no obligation to
seek other employment and there shall be no offset against any amounts due
Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration attributable to
any subsequent employment that Executive may obtain.  The amounts payable hereunder shall not be
subject to setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the
Company may have against Executive or others, except upon obtaining by the
Company of a final unappealable judgment against Executive. 

10.               Change in Control .  (a)  For purposes of this Agreement, the
term  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following
events: 

(i)               any Person is or becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s
then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the
  Company Voting Securities    provided ,
 however , that the event described
in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control
if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities
pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below); 

(ii)              individuals who, on the Effective Date,
constitute the Board (the   Incumbent Directors  ) cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board; 
provided ,  however ,
that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose
election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or
by approval of the proxy statement of  

6  

the
Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without
written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the
directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall
be an Incumbent Director;  provided ,
 further , that no individual
initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result
of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or
removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened
solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than
the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;  

(iii)             the consummation of a merger, consolidation,
statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the
Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in
the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable
(any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a   Reorganization  )
or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of
the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a   Sale  ),
unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than
50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or
similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the
Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such
Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all
or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the   Surviving
Entity  ), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that
directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total
voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in
the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the   Parent
Entity  ), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding
immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is
represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted
pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the
Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting
power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the
case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting
securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the
Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board
of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the
Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale
were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial
agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any
Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and
(3) above being deemed to be a   Non-Qualifying Transaction   or 

(iv)             the stockholders of the
Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting
Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities
by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities
outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in
Control;  provided ,  however , that if such Person subsequently
becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company
Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting
Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person to a percentage equal to or
greater than 35, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to
occur.  

(b)              For purposes of this Section 10, the
following terms shall have the following meanings: 

(i)   Affiliate   shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as
defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the   Exchange Act    

7  

(ii)   Beneficial Owner   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  

(iii)   Person   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as
modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that
such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a
trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan
(or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant
to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or
indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of shares of Common Stock or (5) Executive
or any group of persons including Executive (or any entity controlled by
Executive or any group of persons including Executive).  

11.               Confidential
Information .  (a)  Executive
acknowledges that as a result of his employment by the Company, Executive will
obtain Confidential Information as to the Company and its Affiliates and the
Company and its Affiliates will suffer substantial damage, which would be
difficult to ascertain, if Executive should use such Confidential Information
and that because of the nature of the information that will be known to
Executive it is necessary for the Company and its Affiliates to be protected by
the confidentiality restrictions set forth herein.  For purposes of this Agreement,   Confidential Information   means information, observations
and data concerning the business or affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries
and Affiliates, including, without limitation, all business information
(whether or not in written form) which relates to the Company, its subsidiaries
or Affiliates, or their customers, suppliers or contractors or any other third
parties in respect of which the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates has a
business relationship or owes a duty of confidentiality, or their respective
businesses or products, and which is not known to the public generally other
than as a result of Executive s breach of this Agreement, including but not
limited to:  technical information or
reports; trade secrets; unwritten knowledge and  know-how  operating
instructions; training manuals; customer lists; customer buying records and
habits; product sales records and documents, and product development, marketing
and sales strategies; market surveys; marketing plans; profitability analyses;
product cost; long-range plans; information relating to pricing, competitive
strategies and new product development; information relating to any forms of
compensation or other personnel-related information; contracts; and supplier
lists.  Confidential Information will not
include (i) such information known to Executive prior to Executive s
involvement with the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates or information
obtained from a third party (other than pursuant to a breach by Executive of
this Agreement) or (ii) contact information contained in Executive s
personal rolodex or electronic address book. 

(b)              During and for a period of five (5) years
after the Employment Term, Executive shall not use for his own benefit or
disclose Confidential Information obtained by Executive during his employment
by the Company and its Affiliates and not (i) otherwise public knowledge
or known within the applicable industry or (ii) in connection with
performance of his duties hereunder as he deems in good faith to be necessary
or desirable.  Executive shall not,
without prior written consent of the Company, unless compelled pursuant to the
order of a court or other governmental or legal body having jurisdiction over
such matter, communicate or divulge any such Confidential Information to anyone
other than the Company and those designated by it.  In the event Executive is compelled by order
of a court or other governmental or legal body to communicate or divulge any
such Confidential Information to anyone other than the foregoing, he shall
promptly notify the Company of any such order so it may seek a protective
order. 

8  

(c)           Upon
termination of his employment with the Company and its affiliates, or at any
time as the Company may request, Executive will promptly deliver to the
Company, as requested, all documents (whether prepared by the Company, an
affiliate, Executive or a third party) relating to the Company, an affiliate or
any of their businesses or property which he may possess or have under his
direction or control other than documents provided to Executive in his capacity
as a participant in any employee benefit plan, policy or program of the Company
or any agreement by and between Executive and the Company with regard to
Executive s employment or severance.  

(d)           In
the event of a breach or potential breach of this Section 11, Executive
acknowledges that the Company and its affiliates will or could be caused
irreparable injury and that money damages may not be an adequate remedy and
agree that the Company and its Affiliates shall be entitled to injunctive
relief (in addition to its other remedies at law) to have the provisions of
this Section 11 enforced.  It is
hereby acknowledged that the provisions of this Section 11 are for the
benefit of the Company and all of the affiliates of the Company and each such
entity may enforce the provisions of this Section 11 and only the
applicable entity can waive the rights hereunder with respect to its
Confidential Information and employees.  

12.            Indemnification . The Company
shall indemnify and hold harmless Executive to the fullest extent permitted by
law for any action or inaction of Executive while serving as an officer and
director of the Company or, at the Company s request, as an officer or director
of any other entity or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan.  The Company shall cover Executive under
directors and officers liability insurance both during and, while potential
liability exists, after the Employment Term in the same amount and to the same
extent as the Company covers its other officers and directors.  

13.            Legal Fees .  

(a)           The
Company shall pay Executive s reasonable legal fees and costs associated with
entering into this Agreement.  All
payments by the Company of the legal fees of Executive under this Section 13(a) shall
be for expenses incurred during Executive s lifetime and shall be made within
ninety (90) days following the date Executive submits evidence of the
incurrence of such expenses, and in all events prior to the last day of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurs the
expense.  In no event will the amount of
expenses reimbursed or paid in one year affect the amount of expenses eligible
for reimbursement, or payment to, or for Executive in any other taxable year.  

(b)           All
disputes and controversies arising under or in connection with this Agreement,
other than the seeking of injunctive or other equitable relief pursuant to Section 11
hereof, shall be settled by arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators
sitting in New York City, New York, or such other location agreed by the
parties hereto, in accordance with the rules for expedited resolution of
commercial disputes of the American Arbitration Association then in
effect.  The determination of the
majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding on the parties.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator
in any court having proper jurisdiction. 
The Company shall promptly pay all expenses of such arbitration,
including the fees and expenses of the counsel of Executive.  If the arbitrators determine that Executive s
position was overall frivolous or otherwise taken in bad faith, the arbitrators
may determine that Executive be required to reimburse the Company for his own
legal fees.  All reimbursements or
payments by the Company of the legal fees of Executive under this Section 13(b) shall
be for expenses incurred during Executive s lifetime and shall be made within
ninety (90) days following the date Executive submits evidence of the
incurrence of such expenses, and in all events prior to the last day of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurs the
expense.  In no event will the amount of
expenses reimbursed or paid in one year affect the amount of expenses eligible
for reimbursement, or payment to, or for Executive in any other taxable year.  

9  

(c)           In
the event after a Change in Control either party files for arbitration to
resolve any dispute as to whether a termination is for Cause or Good Reason,
until such dispute is determined by the arbitrators, Executive shall continue
to be treated economically and benefit wise in the manner asserted by him in
the arbitration effective as of the date of the filing of the arbitration,
subject to Executive promptly refunding any amounts paid to him, paying the
cost of any benefits provided to him and paying to the Company the profits in
any stock option or other equity awards exercised or otherwise realized by him
during the pendency of the arbitration which he is ultimately held not to be
entitled to; provided the arbitrators may terminate such payments and benefits
in the event that they determine at any point that Executive is intentionally
delaying conclusion of the arbitration.  

14.             Non-Solicitation/Non-Disparagement . Commencing on the date of Executive s
cessation of employment with the Company and continuing for twelve (12) months
thereafter, (a) Executive shall not (whether for Executive s own account
or on behalf of any person, corporation, partnership, or other business entity,
and whether directly or indirectly) solicit or endeavor to entice away from the
Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, any employee or group of employees
thereof provided, however, that the general advertisement for employees or the
general solicitation of employees by a recruiter shall not be deemed a
violation of this Section 14 neither Executive nor the Company shall
publicly or with the intent to become public make any statements, written or
oral, which disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of, in Executive s
case, the Company formally or, its directors or senior officers or, in the
Company s case, Executive. 

15.            Certain Additional Payments by the
Company .  

(a)           Subject to Section 8(e),
anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it
shall be determined that any payment, award, benefit or distribution (or any
acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or distribution) by the Company (or
any of its Affiliates) or any entity which effectuates a Change in Control (or
any of its Affiliates) to or for the benefit of Executive (whether pursuant to
the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any
additional payments required under this Section 15) (the   Payments  ) would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999
of the Code, or any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with
respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest
and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the   Excise Tax  ), then the Company shall pay to Executive an additional
payment (a   Gross-Up Payment  ) in an amount such
that after payment by Executive of all taxes (including any Excise Tax) imposed
upon the Gross-Up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment
equal to the sum of (x) the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments and (y) the
product of any deductions disallowed because of the inclusion of the Gross-Up
Payment in Executive s adjusted gross income and the highest applicable
marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the
Gross-Up Payment is to be made.  For
purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, Executive shall be
deemed to (i) pay federal income taxes at the highest actual marginal
rates of federal income taxation applicable to Executive for the calendar year
in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made, and (ii) pay applicable state
and local income taxes at the highest actual marginal rate of taxation
applicable to Executive for the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is
to be made, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be
obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this Section 15(a), if it shall be determined that Executive is entitled
to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the Payments would not be subject to the Excise
Tax if the Payments were reduced by an amount that is less than 5% of the
portion of the Payments that would be treated as  parachute payments  under Section 280G
of the Code, then the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement shall
be reduced (but not below zero) to the maximum amount that could be paid to
Executive without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the   Safe Harbor
Cap  ), and no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive.  The reduction of the amounts payable   

10  

hereunder, if
applicable, shall be made by reducing the payments under Section 8(c)(i) in
the following order: first, the payments under clause (A), second, the payments
under clause (E), and third, all other payments ratably.  For purposes of reducing the Payments to the
Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under this Agreement (and no other
Payments) shall be reduced.  If the
reduction of the amounts payable hereunder would not result in a reduction of
the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, no amounts payable under this Agreement
shall be reduced pursuant to this provision.  

(b)           Subject
to the provisions of Section 15(a), all determinations required to be made
under this Section 15, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is
required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, the reduction of the Payments to
the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such
determinations, shall be made by the public accounting firm that is retained by
the Company as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control (the   Accounting Firm  ) which shall provide detailed supporting
calculations both to the Company and Executive within fifteen
(15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Company or Executive
that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the
Company (collectively, the   Determination  ).  In the event that the Accounting Firm is
serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting
the Change in Control, Executive may appoint another nationally recognized
public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which
accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).  All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm
shall be borne solely by the Company and the Company shall enter into any
agreement requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance
of the services hereunder.  If the
Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive, it shall
furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that
failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on Executive s applicable federal
income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar
penalty.  In the event the Accounting
Firm determines that the Payments shall be reduced to the Safe Harbor Cap, it
shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect.  The Determination by the Accounting Firm
shall be binding upon the Company and Executive.  As a result of the uncertainty in the
application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the Determination,
it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the
Company should have been made (  Underpayment  )
or Gross-Up Payments are made by the Company which should not have been made (  Overpayment  ), consistent with the calculations required to
be made hereunder.  In the event that
Executive thereafter is required to make payment of any Excise Tax or
additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the
Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment (together with
interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code)
shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive.  In the event the amount of the Gross-Up
Payment exceeds the amount necessary to reimburse Executive for his Excise Tax,
the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Overpayment that has been
made and any such Overpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2) of
the Code) shall be promptly paid by Executive (to the extent he has received a
refund if the applicable Excise Tax has been paid to the Internal Revenue
Service) to or for the benefit of the Company;  provided ,  however ,
that such repayment obligation shall not apply to the extent it would be
treated as a prohibited personal loan from the Company to Executive for
purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
Executive shall cooperate, to the extent his expenses are reimbursed by
the Company, with any reasonable requests by the Company in connection with any
contests or disputes with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the
Excise Tax.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Section 15 to the contrary, all taxes and expenses
described in this Section 15 shall be paid or reimbursed within fifteen
(15) days after the determination thereof pursuant to the terms of this Section 15
or after Executive submits evidence of the incurrence of such taxes and/or
expenses.  Executive shall be required to
submit all requests for reimbursements no later than ninety (90) days prior to
the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the
applicable taxes are remitted or, in the case of reimbursement of expenses
incurred due to a tax audit or litigation with respect to which there is no
remittance of taxes, the last day of the calendar year following the calendar
year in which the audit is completed or there is a final and nonappealable   

11  

settlement or other resolution of the
litigation in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(v).  Any expenses, including interest and penalties
assessed on the taxes described in this Section 15, incurred by Executive
shall be reimbursed promptly after Executive submits evidence of the incurrence
of such expenses, which reimbursement in no event will be later than the last
day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurs
the expense.  

16.            Miscellaneous .  

(a)            Governing Law .  This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without
reference to principles of conflict of laws.  

(b)            Entire Agreement/Amendments .  This Agreement and the instruments
contemplated herein, contain the entire understanding of the parties with
respect to the employment of Executive by the Company from and after the
Effective Date and supersedes any prior agreements between the Company and
Executive, including the Prior Employment Agreement.  There are no restrictions, agreements,
promises, warranties, covenants or undertakings between the parties with
respect to the subject matter herein other than those expressly set forth
herein and therein.  This Agreement may
not be altered, modified, or amended except by written instrument signed by the
parties hereto.  

(c)            No Waiver .  The failure of a party to insist upon strict
adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion shall not be considered
a waiver of such party s rights or deprive such party of the right thereafter
to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this
Agreement.  Any such waiver must be in
writing and signed by Executive or an authorized officer of the Company, as the
case may be.  

(d)            Assignment .  This Agreement shall not be assignable by
Executive.  This Agreement shall be
assignable by the Company only to an acquirer of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company, provided such acquirer promptly assumes all of the
obligations hereunder of the Company in a writing delivered to Executive and
otherwise complies with the provisions hereof with regard to such assumption.  

(e)            Successors; Binding Agreement;
Third Party Beneficiaries .  This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the personal or
legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs,
distributees, devisees legatees and permitted assignees of the parties hereto.  

(f)             Communications .  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices
and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) when faxed or delivered,
or (ii) two (2) business days after being mailed by United States
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the initial page of
this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to
the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as any
party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  Notice of change of address shall be
effective only upon receipt.  

(g)            Withholding Taxes .  The Company may withhold from any and all
amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state and local taxes as may
be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.  

12  

(h)            Survivorship .  The respective rights and obligations of the
parties hereunder, including without limitation Section 11 hereof, shall
survive any termination of Executive s employment to the extent necessary to
the agreed preservation of such rights and obligations.  

(i)             Counterparts .  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts
(including via facsimile), each of which shall be an original, with the same
effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  

(j)             Headings .  The headings of the sections contained in
this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or
affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.  

(k)            Section 409A
of the Code .  Each payment or
reimbursement and the provision of each benefit under this Agreement shall be
considered a separate payment and not one of a series of payments for purposes
of Section 409A of the Code. 
Furthermore, in the event that any payment made hereunder is subject to
payment during a specified time frame ( e.g. ,
within 90 days of a termination of employment) as opposed to payment on a
specific payment date ( e.g. , January 1,
2010), the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine the exact date upon
which such payment will be made during the specified payment period.    To
the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the
provisions of Section 409A of the Code so that the income inclusion
provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) do not apply to Executive.  This Agreement shall be administered in a
manner consistent with this intent. 
Reference to Section 409A of the Code is to Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and will also include any
regulations, or any other formal guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by
the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.  

13  

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and
year first above written.  

priceline.com Incorporated  

By:  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Chief Executive Officer  

priceline.com Incorporated  

/s/ Robert Mylod  

Robert Mylod  

14  

AMENDED
AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT    

BY AND BETWEEN  

PRICELINE.COM
INCORPORATED  

AND  

ROBERT MYLOD  

DECEMBER 18, 2008  

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 4
 a09-1364_1ex10d54.htm
 EX-10.54

Exhibit 10.54   

AMENDED
AND RESTATED 
   EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

AMENDED AND
RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of December 18, 2008 (the   Effective Date  ), by and between Priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation, with its principal office at 800 Connecticut Avenue,
Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the   Company  ), and
Peter J. Millones (  Executive  ).  

W    I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :  

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and Executive entered into an employment agreement, dated February 8,
2006 (the   Prior Employment Agreement   

WHEREAS  ,
the Company desires that Executive continue to be employed as Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company, and the
Company and Executive desire to amend the Prior Employment Agreement to account
for the effect of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (  Section 409A of the Code  )
on the agreement; and 

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and Executive desire to replace and supersede the Prior Employment
Agreement in its entirety and enter into this Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement (the   Agreement  ) providing for the
terms of Executive s employment by the Company. 

NOW,
THEREFORE  , in consideration of the premises and mutual
covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
parties agree as follows: 

1 .                                           Term
of Employment .  Except for earlier
termination as provided in Section 7 hereof, Executive s employment under
this Agreement shall continue on the same basis as set forth in the Prior
Employment Agreement and, as a result, shall end on February 8, 2009 (the   Initial Employment Term  ), provided that the Initial
Employment Term shall be automatically extended for additional terms of
successive one (1) year periods (each, an   Additional
Employment Term  ) unless the Company or Executive gives written
notice to the other at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the
Initial Employment Term or then-current Additional Employment Term that
Executive s employment shall not be so extended.  The Initial Employment Term and each
Additional Employment Term shall be referred to herein as the   Employment Term .  

2 .                                          Positions .  (a) Executive shall serve
as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
the Company s Board of Directors.  Executive shall also serve, if requested by
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as an executive officer and
director of subsidiaries and a director of Affiliates of the Company and shall
comply with the policy of the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors
(the   Compensation Committee  ) with regard to
retention or forfeiture of director s fees. 

(b)                                    Executive
shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall
have such duties and authority, consistent with his then position, as shall be
assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (the
  Board  ) or the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company. 

(c)                                     During
the Employment Term, Executive shall devote substantially all of his business
time and efforts to the performance of his duties hereunder;  provided, however , that Executive shall be allowed, to the
extent that such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of
his duties and responsibilities hereunder, to manage his personal financial and
legal affairs and to serve on corporate, civic, charitable and industry boards
or committees.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Executive 

shall only serve on
corporate boards of directors if approved in advance by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.  

3 .                                           Base
Salary . During the Employment Term, the Company shall pay Executive a base
salary at the annual rate of not less than $330,000.  Base salary shall be payable in accordance
with the usual payroll practices of the Company.  Executive s base salary shall be subject to
annual review by the Board or the Compensation Committee during the Employment
Term and may be increased, but not decreased, from time to time by the Board or
the Compensation Committee.  The base
salary as determined as aforesaid from time to time shall constitute   Base Salary   for purposes of this Agreement. 

4 .                                           Incentive
Compensation .  (a)   Bonus .  Executive shall be eligible to participate in
any annual bonus plan the Company may implement at any time during Executive s Employment
Term for senior executives at a level commensurate with his position. 

(b)                                     Long Term
Compensation .  For each fiscal year
or portion thereof during the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible to
participate in any long-term incentive compensation plan generally made
available to senior executives of the Company at a level commensurate with his
position in accordance with and subject to the terms of such plan. 

(c)                                      Other Compensation .  The
Company may, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, award to
Executive such other bonuses and compensation as it deems appropriate and
reasonable. 

5 .                                           Employee
Benefits and Vacation .  (a) 
During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all
benefit plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs
generally provided to comparable senior executives of the Company. 

(b)                                    During the Employment
Term, Executive shall be entitled to vacation each year in accordance with the
Company s policies in effect from time to time, but in no event less than four (4) weeks
paid vacation per calendar year. 
Executive shall also be entitled to such periods of sick leave as is
customarily provided by the Company for its senior executive employees. 

6 .                                           Business
Expenses .  The Company shall
reimburse Executive for the travel, entertainment and other business expenses
incurred by Executive in the performance of his duties hereunder, in accordance
with the Company s policies as in effect from time to time;  provided ,  however ,
that such expenses must be paid no later than the last day of the calendar year
following the calendar year in which such expenses were incurred and  further
provided  that in no event will the amount of expenses so reimbursed
in one taxable year affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in
any other taxable year.  . 

7.                                           Termination .  (a)  The employment of Executive under
this Agreement shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of any of the
following events: 

(i)                          the
death of Executive; 

(ii)                       the
termination of Executive s employment by the Company due to Executive s
Disability pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof; 

(iii)                    the termination of Executive s
employment by Executive for Good Reason pursuant to Section 7(c) hereof; 

(iv)                   the
termination of Executive s employment by the Company without Cause; 

(v)                      the
termination of employment by Executive without Good Reason upon sixty (60) days
prior written notice; or 

(vi)                   the
termination of Executive s employment by the Company for Cause pursuant to Section 7(e). 

2  

(b)                                     Disability .  If by reason of the same or related physical
or mental illness or incapacity, Executive is unable to carry out his
material duties pursuant to this Agreement for more than six (6) consecutive
months, the Company may terminate Executive s employment for disability (  Disability  ).  Such termination shall be upon thirty (30)
days written notice by a Notice of Disability Termination, at any time
thereafter while Executive consecutively continues to be unable to carry out
his duties as a result of the same or related physical or mental illness or
incapacity.  A Termination for Disability
hereunder shall not be effective if Executive returns to the full time
performance of his material duties within such thirty (30) day period. 

(c)                                      Termination for
Good Reason .  A Termination for Good
Reason means a termination by Executive by written notice given within ninety
(90) days after the occurrence of the Good Reason event, unless such
circumstances are fully corrected prior to the date of termination specified in
the Notice of Termination for Good Reason (as defined in Section 7(d) hereof).  For purposes of this Agreement,   Good Reason   shall mean the occurrence or failure to cause
the occurrence, as the case may be, without Executive s express written
consent, of any of the following circumstances: 
(i) any material diminution of Executive s positions, duties or
responsibilities hereunder (except in each case in connection with the
termination of Executive s employment for Cause or Disability or as a result of
Executive s death, or temporarily as a result of Executive s illness or other
absence), or, the assignment to Executive of duties or responsibilities that
are inconsistent with Executive s then position; (ii) removal of, or the
non-reelection of, Executive from officer positions with the Company specified
herein without election to a higher position or removal of Executive from any
of his then officer positions; (iii) a relocation of the Company s
executive office in Connecticut  to a
location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more
than thirty-five (35) miles further from Executive s residence at the time of
relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus
plan, program or arrangement in which Executive is entitled to participate (the
  Bonus Plans  ), provided that any such
Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company s discretion from time to time but
shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain
substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if
plans providing Executive with substantially similar benefits are not
substituted therefor (  Substitute Plans  ),
or (B) to continue Executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and
Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus
as Executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in
accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material
breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement, including, without
limitation, Section 12 hereof; or (vi) failure of any successor to
the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by merger, acquisition,
consolidation or otherwise) to assume in a writing delivered to Executive upon
the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company hereunder. 

(d)                                     Notice of
Termination for Good Reason .  A
Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall mean a notice that shall indicate
the specific termination provision in Section 7(c) relied upon and
shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to
provide a basis for Termination for Good Reason.  The failure by Executive to set forth in the
Notice of Termination for Good Reason any facts or circumstances which
contribute to the showing of Good Reason shall not waive any right of Executive
hereunder or preclude Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in
enforcing his rights hereunder.  The
Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall provide for a date of termination
not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days after the date such
Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given, provided that in the case of
the events set forth in Sections 7(c)(i) or (ii), the date may be five (5) days
after the giving of such notice. 

(e)                                      Cause .  Subject to the notification provisions of Section 7(f) below,
Executive s employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company for
Cause.  For purposes of this Agreement,
the term  Cause  shall be limited to (i) willful misconduct by Executive
with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the
willful refusal of Executive to attempt to 

3  

follow the proper
written direction of the Board or a more senior officer of the Company,
provided that the foregoing refusal shall not be  Cause  if Executive in good
faith believes that such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and
promptly so notifies the Board or the more senior officer (whichever is
applicable); (iii) substantial and continuing willful refusal by Executive
to attempt to perform the duties required of him hereunder (other than any such
failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a
written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive by the
Board or a more senior officer of the Company which specifically identifies the
manner in which it is believed that Executive has substantially and continually
refused to attempt to perform his duties hereunder; or (iv) Executive
being convicted of a felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation
or as a result of vicarious liability). 
For purposes of this paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on Executive s
part shall be considered  willful  unless done or omitted to be done, by him
not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was
in the best interests of the Company.  A
notice by the Company of a non-renewal of the Employment Term pursuant to Section 1
hereof shall be deemed an involuntary termination of Executive by the Company
without Cause as of the end of the then Employment Term, but Executive may
terminate at any time after the receipt of such notice and shall be treated as
if he was terminated without Cause as of such date.  

(f)                                        Notice of
Termination for Cause .  A Notice of
Termination for Cause shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific
termination provision in Section 7(e) relied upon and shall set forth
in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances which provide for a basis for
Termination for Cause.  Further, a Notice
of Termination for Cause shall be required to include a copy of a resolution
duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board
at a meeting of the Board which was called for the purpose of considering such
termination and which Executive and his representative had the right to attend
and address the Board, finding that, in the good faith of the Board, Executive
engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of Cause herein and specifying
the particulars thereof in reasonable detail. 
The date of termination for a Termination for Cause shall be the date
indicated in the Notice of Termination. 
Any purported Termination for Cause which is held by a court not to have
been based on the grounds set forth in this Agreement or not to have followed
the procedures set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed a Termination by the
Company without Cause. 

8.                                           Consequences
of Termination of Employment . 

(a)                                      Death .  If Executive s employment is terminated by
reason of Executive s death, the employment period under this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations to Executive s legal representatives
under this Agreement except for:  (i) any
compensation earned but not yet paid, including and without limitation, any
bonus if declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year, any
amount of Base Salary earned but unpaid, any accrued vacation pay payable
pursuant to the Company s policies, and any unreimbursed business expenses
payable pursuant to Section 6 (collectively   Accrued
Amounts  ), which amounts shall be promptly paid in a lump sum to
Executive s estate; (ii) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive
under the then applicable employee benefit plans, long term incentive plans or
equity plans and programs of the Company which shall be paid or treated in
accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (iii) continuation,
for twelve (12) months following the date of death, of Executive s health
benefits for Executive s dependents at the same level and cost as if Executive
were an employee of the Company; and (iv) if a bonus plan is in place, the
product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive s
death, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the
Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid in a
lump sum when bonuses for such period are paid to the Company s other
executives, but, in any event, in the fiscal year following the fiscal year in
which such bonus is earned. 

(b)                                     Disability .  Subject to Section 8(f), if Executive s
employment is terminated by reason of Executive s Disability, Executive shall
be entitled to receive the payments and benefits to which 

4  

his
representatives would be entitled in the event of a termination of employment
by reason of his death plus Executive shall be entitled to continuation, for
twelve (12) months following such termination of employment, of group life and
disability insurance benefits as if Executive were an active employee of the
Company.  

(c)                                      Termination by
Executive for Good Reason or Termination by the Company without Cause .  (i)  Subject to Section 8(f), if
Executive terminates his employment hereunder for Good Reason during the
Employment Term or Executive s employment with the Company is terminated by the
Company without Cause, then Executive shall be entitled to receive, (A) in
equal installments paid in accordance with the Company s normal payroll
practices commencing with the first pay period after such termination over a
period of twelve (12) months after such termination (except as provided below),
an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of his Base Salary and target
bonus, if any, for the year in which such termination occurs (provided,
however, in the event that the Base Salary or target bonus, if any, has been decreased
in the twelve (12) months prior to the termination, the amount to be used shall
be the highest Base Salary and target bonus, if any, during such twelve (12)
month period); (B) any Accrued Amounts at the date of termination; (C) any
other amounts or benefits owing to Executive under the then applicable employee
benefit, long term incentive or equity plans and programs of the Company, which
shall be paid or treated in accordance with the terms of such plans and
programs; (D) continuation of benefits (including, without limitation,
health, life and disability) for a period of twelve (12) months as if Executive
were an employee of the Company, provided that, if such termination is after a
Change in Control, the period of benefit continuation shall be twenty-four (24)
months, subject to the terms set forth
in Section 8(c)(ii); and (E) if a bonus plan is in place, the
product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive s
termination, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed
by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid
in a lump sum when bonuses for such period are paid to the Company s other
executives, but, in any event, in the fiscal year following the fiscal year in
which such bonus is earned. 

(ii)                                     With respect to the continuation of group
health benefits to Executive in connection with Executive s termination of
employment after a Change in Control pursuant to Section 8(c)(i)(D),
Executive shall pay the full cost for such group health coverage on an
after-tax basis for each month that Executive elects to retain such coverage by
payment of the monthly cost of such coverage as determined for purposes of health
care continuation under Section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the   COBRA Premium  ).  Within five (5) business days of the
date of Executive s termination of employment, the Company shall make a payment
to Executive equal to the number of full and partial months remaining in the
calendar year in which Executive s employment is terminated, multiplied by the
difference between the COBRA Premium for such year and the monthly amount that
Executive was required to pay for group health coverage immediately prior to
his termination of employment.  On each January 2
thereafter until the end of the twenty-four (24) month period, if Executive has
maintained group health coverage through the last day of the preceding calendar
year, the Company shall make a payment to Executive equal to the difference
between the COBRA Premium and the monthly amount that Executive was required to
pay for group health coverage immediately prior to his termination of
employment, multiplied by 12, or, if the period of coverage is for less than a
year, by the number of full and partial months remaining in the year until the
end of the twenty-four (24) month period. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first 18 months following the
date of    Executive s termination of
employment shall be considered to be the period during which Executive shall be
eligible for continuation coverage under Section 4980B of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   Code  ). 

(d)                                     Termination with
Cause or Voluntary Resignation without Good Reason .  If, Executive s employment hereunder is
terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or (ii) by Executive 

5  

without Good
Reason, Executive shall be entitled to receive only his Base Salary through the
date of termination, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to
Section 6 and, if such termination is by Executive without Good Reason,
any bonus that has been declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed
fiscal year.  Executive s rights under
all benefits plans and equity grants shall be determined in accordance with the
Company s plans, programs and grants.  

(e)                                      Determination
of Earned Bonus.   For purposes of
this Agreement, a bonus in respect of services performed in a fiscal year shall
not be considered to be earned until after the Committee and/or the Board, as
applicable, has reviewed the Company s performance and Executive s performance
in respect of such year  and has
determined the amount of the bonus, if any, to be payable to Executive in
respect of such year s performance;  provided ,  however , that if
Executive is still employed by the Company as of December 31 of any year,
Executive shall be considered to have earned the bonus in respect of services
performed in such year (to the extent that the Committee and/or the Board
determine that such bonus would otherwise have been payable to Executive had
Executive remained employed through the relevant payment date for such bonus)
unless Executive s employment is subsequently terminated by the Company for
Cause or by Executive without Good Reason. 

(f)                                        Separation
from Service .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to
the contrary, if Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A
of the Code) and any payment made pursuant to this Section 8 is considered
to be a  deferral of compensation  (as such phrase is defined for purposes of Section 409A
of the Code) that is payable upon Executive s  separation from service  (within
the meaning of Section 409A of the Code), then the payment date for such
payment shall be the date that is the first day of the seventh month after the
date of Executive s  separation from service  with the Company (determined in
accordance with Section 409A of the Code). 
In addition, if the event triggering Executive s right to benefits or
payments hereunder is Executive s termination of employment, but such
termination of employment does not constitute a  separation from service  with
the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the
benefits or payments hereunder payable by reason of such termination of
employment that are considered to be a  deferral of compensation  under Section 409A
of the Code shall not be paid upon such termination of employment, but instead,
shall remain an obligation of the Company to Executive and shall be paid or
provided to Executive upon the first to occur of the following events: (i) Executive s
 separation from service  (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code)
(any amount payable upon such  separation from service  being subject to the
first sentence of this Section 8(f)); (ii) Executive s disability
(within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code); (iii) a  change of
control  of the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code);
or (iv) Executive s death. 

9.                                           No
Mitigation; No Set-Off .  In the event
of any termination of employment hereunder, Executive shall be under no
obligation to seek other employment and there shall be no offset against any
amounts due Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration
attributable to any subsequent employment that Executive may obtain.  The amounts payable hereunder shall not be
subject to setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the
Company may have against Executive or others, except upon the Company s
obtaining a final unappealable judgment against Executive. 

10.                                     Change
in Control .  (a)  For purposes
of this Agreement, the term  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of
any one of the following events: 

(i)                                        any Person is or becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s
then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the
  Company Voting Securities    provided ,
 however , that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall
not be deemed 

6  

to
be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company
Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in
paragraph (iii) below);  

(ii)                                     individuals who, on the Effective Date,
constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Directors ) cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board;  provided ,
 however , that any person becoming
a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election or nomination for
election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy
statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for
director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least
two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval,
Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director;  provided ,  further ,
that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of
the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with
respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other
actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any
person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director; 

(iii)                                  the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange
or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any
of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause
(B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in
the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a   Reorganization  ) or the sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an
Affiliate of the Company (a   Sale  ),
unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than
50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or
similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the
Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such
Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all
or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the   Surviving Entity  ), or (y) if
applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has
Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of
the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other
than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the   Parent Entity  ), is represented by Company Voting Securities
that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if
applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities
were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is
or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the
total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar
officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding
voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the
Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board
of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a
corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the
Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale
were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial
agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any
Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and
(3) above being deemed to be a   Non-Qualifying
Transaction   or 

(iv)                                 the stockholders of the
Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting
Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities
by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities
outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in
Control;  provided ,  however , that if such Person subsequently
becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company
Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting
Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person to a percentage equal to or
greater than 35, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to
occur.  

7  

(b)                                    For purposes of this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 

(i)   Affiliate   shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as
defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the   Exchange Act    

(ii)   Beneficial Owner   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  

(iii)   Person   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as
modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that
such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a
trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan
(or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant
to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or
indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of shares of common stock of the Company or (5) Executive
or any group of persons including Executive (or any entity controlled by
Executive or any group of persons including Executive).  

11.                                     Confidential
Information .  (a)  Executive
acknowledges that as a result of his employment by the Company, Executive will
obtain Confidential Information as to the Company and its Affiliates and the
Company and its Affiliates will suffer substantial damage, which would be
difficult to ascertain, if Executive should use such Confidential Information
and that because of the nature of the information that will be known to
Executive it is necessary for the Company and its Affiliates to be protected by
the confidentiality restrictions set forth herein.  For purposes of this Agreement,   Confidential Information   means information, observations
and data concerning the business or affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries
and Affiliates, including, without limitation, all business information
(whether or not in written form) which relates to the Company, its subsidiaries
or Affiliates, or their customers, suppliers or contractors or any other third
parties in respect of which the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates has a
business relationship or owes a duty of confidentiality, or their respective
businesses or products, and which is not known to the public generally other
than as a result of Executive s breach of this Agreement, including but not
limited to:  technical information or
reports; trade secrets; unwritten knowledge and  know-how  operating
instructions; training manuals; customer lists; customer buying records and
habits; product sales records and documents, and product development, marketing
and sales strategies; market surveys; marketing plans; profitability analyses;
product cost; long-range plans; information relating to pricing, competitive
strategies and new product development; information relating to any forms of
compensation or other personnel-related information; contracts; and supplier
lists.  Confidential Information will not
include (i) such information known to Executive prior to Executive s
involvement with the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates or information
obtained from a third party (other than pursuant to a breach by Executive of
this Agreement) or (ii) contact information contained in Executive s
personal rolodex or electronic address book. 

(b)                                    During and for a
period of five (5) years after the Employment Term, Executive shall not
use for his own benefit or disclose Confidential Information obtained by
Executive during his employment by the Company and its Affiliates and not (i) otherwise
public knowledge or known within the applicable industry or (ii) in
connection with performance of his duties hereunder as he deems in good 

8  

faith to be necessary or
desirable.  Executive shall not, without
prior written consent of the Company, unless compelled pursuant to the order of
a court or other governmental or legal body having jurisdiction over such
matter, communicate or divulge any such Confidential Information to anyone
other than the Company and those designated by it.  In the event Executive is compelled by order
of a court or other governmental or legal body to communicate or divulge any
such Confidential Information to anyone other than the foregoing, he shall
promptly notify the Company of any such order so it may seek a protective
order.  

(c)                                     Upon termination of
his employment with the Company and its affiliates, or at any time as the
Company may request, Executive will promptly deliver to the Company, as
requested, all documents (whether prepared by the Company, an affiliate,
Executive or a third party) relating to the Company, an affiliate or any of
their businesses or property which he may possess or have under his direction
or control other than documents provided to Executive in his capacity as a
participant in any employee benefit plan, policy or program of the Company or
any agreement by and between Executive and the Company with regard to Executive s
employment or severance. 

(d)                                    In the event of a
breach or potential breach of this Section 11, Executive acknowledges that
the Company and its affiliates will or could be caused irreparable injury and
that money damages may not be an adequate remedy and agree that the Company and
its Affiliates shall be entitled to injunctive relief (in addition to its other
remedies at law) to have the provisions of this Section 11 enforced.  It is hereby acknowledged that the provisions
of this Section 11 are for the benefit of the Company and all of the
affiliates of the Company and each such entity may enforce the provisions of
this Section 11 and only the applicable entity can waive the rights
hereunder with respect to its Confidential Information and employees. 

12.                                     Indemnification .
The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Executive to the fullest extent
permitted by law for any action or inaction of Executive while serving as an
officer and director of the Company or, at the Company s request, as an officer
or director of any other entity or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan.  The Company shall cover Executive under
directors and officers liability insurance both during and, while potential
liability exists, after the Employment Term in the same amount and to the same
extent as the Company covers its other officers and directors. 

13.                                     Legal
Fees . 

(a)                                     The Company shall pay
Executive s reasonable legal fees and costs associated with entering into this
Agreement.  All payments by the Company of
the legal fees of Executive under this Section 13(a) shall be for
expenses incurred during Executive s lifetime and shall be made within ninety
(90) days following the date Executive submits evidence of the incurrence of
such expenses, and in all events prior to the last day of the calendar year
following the calendar year in which Executive incurs the expense.  In no event will the amount of expenses
reimbursed or paid in one year affect the amount of expenses eligible for
reimbursement, or payment to, or for Executive in any other taxable year. 

9  

(b)                                    All disputes and
controversies arising under or in connection with this Agreement, other than
the seeking of injunctive or other equitable relief pursuant to Section 11
hereof, shall be settled by arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators
sitting in New York City, New York, or such other location agreed by the
parties hereto, in accordance with the rules for expedited resolution of
commercial disputes of the American Arbitration Association then in
effect.  The determination of the
majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding on the parties.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the
arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction.  The Company shall promptly pay all expenses
of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the counsel of
Executive.  If the arbitrators determine
that Executive s position was overall frivolous or otherwise taken in bad
faith, the arbitrators may determine that Executive be required to reimburse
the Company for his own legal fees.  All
reimbursements or payments by the Company of the legal fees of Executive under
this Section 13(b) shall be for expenses incurred during Executive s
lifetime and shall be made within ninety (90) days following the date Executive
submits evidence of the incurrence of such expenses, and in all events prior to
the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which
Executive incurs the expense.  In no
event will the amount of expenses reimbursed or paid in one year affect the
amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement, or payment to, or for Executive
in any other taxable year. 

(c)                                     In the event after a
Change in Control either party files for arbitration to resolve any dispute as
to whether a termination is for Cause or Good Reason, until such dispute is
determined by the arbitrators, Executive shall continue to be treated
economically and benefit wise in the manner asserted by him in the arbitration
effective as of the date of the filing of the arbitration, subject to Executive
promptly refunding any amounts paid to him, paying the cost of any benefits
provided to him and paying to the Company the profits in any stock option or
other equity awards exercised or otherwise realized by him during the pendency
of the arbitration which he is ultimately held not to be entitled to; provided
the arbitrators may terminate such payments and benefits in the event that they
determine at any point that Executive is intentionally delaying conclusion of
the arbitration. 

14.                                     Reserved . 

15.                                     Certain
Additional Payments by the Company . 

(a)                                     Subject
to Section 8(f), anything in this Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any payment, award,
benefit or distribution (or any acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or
distribution) by the Company (or any of its Affiliates) or any entity which
effectuates a Change in Control (or any of its Affiliates) to or for the
benefit of Executive (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or
otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required
under this Section 15) (the   Payments  )
would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, or
any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with respect to such excise
tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are
hereinafter collectively referred to as the   Excise Tax  ),
then the Company shall pay to Executive an additional payment (a   Gross-Up Payment  ) in an amount such that after payment by
Executive of all taxes (including any Excise Tax) imposed upon the Gross-Up
Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the sum
of (x) the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments and (y) the
product of any deductions disallowed because of the inclusion of the Gross-Up
Payment in Executive s adjusted gross income and the highest applicable
marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the
Gross-Up Payment is to be made.  For
purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, Executive shall be
deemed to (i) pay federal income taxes at the highest actual marginal
rates of federal income taxation applicable to Executive for the calendar year
in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made, and (ii) pay applicable state
and local income taxes at the highest actual marginal rate of taxation
applicable to Executive for the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is 

10  

to be made, net of
the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from
deduction of such state and local taxes. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 15(a), if
it shall be determined that Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, but
that the Payments would not be subject to the Excise Tax if the Payments were
reduced by an amount that is less than 5% of the portion of the Payments that
would be treated as  parachute payments  under Section 280G of the Code,
then the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement shall be reduced
(but not below zero) to the maximum amount that could be paid to Executive
without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the   Safe Harbor Cap  ),
and no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive.  The reduction of the amounts payable
hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing the payments under Section 8(c)(i) in
the following order: first, the payments under clause (A), second, the payments
under clause (E), and third, all other payments ratably.  For purposes of reducing the Payments to the
Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under this Agreement (and no other
Payments) shall be reduced.  If the
reduction of the amounts payable hereunder would not result in a reduction of
the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, no amounts payable under this Agreement
shall be reduced pursuant to this provision.  

(b)                                     Subject to
the provisions of Section 15(a), all determinations required to be made
under this Section 15, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is
required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, the reduction of the Payments to
the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such
determinations, shall be made by the public accounting firm that is retained by
the Company as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control (the   Accounting Firm  ) which shall provide detailed supporting
calculations both to the Company and Executive within fifteen
(15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Company or Executive
that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the
Company (collectively, the   Determination  ).  In the event that the Accounting Firm is
serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting
the Change in Control, Executive may appoint another nationally recognized
public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which
accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).  All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm
shall be borne solely by the Company and the Company shall enter into any
agreement requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance
of the services hereunder.  If the
Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive, it shall
furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that
failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on Executive s applicable federal
income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar
penalty.  In the event the Accounting
Firm determines that the Payments shall be reduced to the Safe Harbor Cap, it
shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect.  The Determination by the Accounting Firm
shall be binding upon the Company and Executive.  As a result of the uncertainty in the
application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the Determination,
it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the
Company should have been made (  Underpayment  )
or Gross-Up Payments are made by the Company which should not have been made (  Overpayment  ), consistent with the calculations required to
be made hereunder.  In the event that
Executive thereafter is required to make payment of any Excise Tax or
additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the
Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment (together with
interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code)
shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive.  In the event the amount of the Gross-Up
Payment exceeds the amount necessary to reimburse Executive for his Excise Tax,
the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Overpayment that has been
made and any such Overpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2) of
the Code) shall be promptly paid by Executive (to the extent he has received a
refund if the applicable Excise Tax has been paid to the Internal Revenue
Service) to or for the benefit of the Company;  provided ,  however ,
that such repayment obligation shall not apply to the extent it would be
treated as a prohibited personal loan from the Company to Executive for
purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
Executive shall cooperate, to the extent his expenses are reimbursed by
the Company, with any reasonable requests by the Company in connection with any
contests or disputes with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the
Excise  

11  

Tax. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 15 to the
contrary, all taxes and expenses described in this Section 15 shall be
paid or reimbursed within fifteen (15) days after the determination thereof pursuant
to the terms of this Section 15 or after Executive submits evidence of the
incurrence of such taxes and/or expenses. 
Executive shall be required to submit all requests for reimbursements no
later than ninety (90) days prior to the last day of the calendar year
following the calendar year in which the applicable taxes are remitted or, in
the case of reimbursement of expenses incurred due to a tax audit or litigation
with respect to which there is no remittance of taxes, the last day of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which the audit is completed or
there is a final and nonappealable settlement or other resolution of the
litigation in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(v).  Any expenses, including interest and penalties
assessed on the taxes described in this Section 15, incurred by Executive
shall be reimbursed promptly after Executive submits evidence of the incurrence
of such expenses, which reimbursement in no event will be later than the last
day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurs
the expense.  

16.                                     Miscellaneous . 

(a)                                      Governing
Law .  This Agreement shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware
without reference to principles of conflict of laws. 

(b)                                     Entire
Agreement/Amendments .  This Agreement
and the instruments contemplated herein, contain the entire understanding of
the parties with respect to the employment of Executive by the Company from and
after the Effective Date and supersedes any prior agreements between the
Company and Executive (including, but not limited to, the Prior Employment
Agreement).  There are no restrictions,
agreements, promises, warranties, covenants or undertakings between the parties
with respect to the subject matter herein other than those expressly set forth
herein and therein.  This Agreement may
not be altered, modified, or amended except by written instrument signed by the
parties hereto. 

(c)                                      No
Waiver .  The failure of a party to
insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion
shall not be considered a waiver of such party s rights or deprive such party
of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any
other term of this Agreement.  Any such
waiver must be in writing and signed by Executive or an authorized officer of
the Company, as the case may be. 

(d)                                     Assignment .  This Agreement shall not be assignable by
Executive.  This Agreement shall be
assignable by the Company only to an acquirer of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company, provided such acquirer promptly assumes all of the
obligations hereunder of the Company in a writing delivered to Executive and
otherwise complies with the provisions hereof with regard to such assumption. 

(e)                                      Successors;
Binding Agreement; Third Party Beneficiaries .  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and be binding upon the personal or legal representatives, executors,
administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees legatees and
permitted assignees of the parties hereto. 

(f)                                        Communications .  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices
and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) when faxed or delivered,
or (ii) two (2) business days after being mailed by United States
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the initial page of
this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to
the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as any
party may have  

12  

furnished to the other in
writing in accordance herewith.  Notice
of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.  

(g)                                     Withholding
Taxes .  The Company may withhold from
any and all amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state and local
taxes as may be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. 

(h)                                     Survivorship .  The respective rights and obligations of the
parties hereunder, including, without limitation, Section 11 hereof, shall
survive any termination of Executive s employment to the extent necessary to
the agreed preservation of such rights and obligations. 

(i)                                         Counterparts .  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts
(including via facsimile), each of which shall be an original, with the same
effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 

(j)                                         Headings .  The headings of the sections contained in
this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or
affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement. 

(k)                                      Section 409A of the Code .  Each
payment or reimbursement and the provision of each benefit under this Agreement
shall be considered a separate payment and not one of a series of payments for
purposes of Section 409A of the Code. 
Furthermore, in the event that any payment made hereunder is subject to
payment during a specified time frame ( e.g. ,
within 90 days of a termination of employment) as opposed to payment on a
specific payment date ( e.g. , January 1,
2010), the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine the exact date upon
which such payment will be made during the specified payment period.    To
the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the
provisions of Section 409A of the Code so that the income inclusion
provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) do not apply to Executive.  This Agreement shall be administered in a
manner consistent with this intent. 
Reference to Section 409A of the Code is to Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and will also include any
regulations, or any other formal guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by
the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service. 

13  

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and
year first above written.  

priceline.com Incorporated  

By:  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Chief Executive Officer  

priceline.com Incorporated  

/s/ Peter J.
  Millones  

Peter J.
  Millones  

14  

AMENDED
AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT    

BY AND BETWEEN  

PRICELINE.COM
INCORPORATED  

AND  

PETER J. MILLONES  

DECEMBER 18, 2008  

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.55>
 5
 a09-1364_1ex10d55.htm
 EX-10.55

Exhibit 10.55   

AMENDED
AND RESTATED   

   EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   

AMENDED AND
RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of December 18, 2008 (the   Effective Date  ), by and between Priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation, with its principal office at 800 Connecticut Avenue,
Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the   Company  ), and
Chris Soder (  Executive  ).  

W      I    T    N    E    S    S 
 E    T    H :   

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and Executive entered into an employment agreement, dated February 7,
2005 (the   Prior Employment Agreement   

WHEREAS  ,
the Company desires that Executive be employed as President, North American
Travel of the Company, and the Company and Executive desire to amend the Prior
Employment Agreement to account for the effect of Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (  Section 409A
of the Code  ) on the agreement; and 

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and Executive desire to replace and supersede the Prior Employment
Agreement in its entirety and enter into this Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement (the   Agreement  ) providing for the
terms of Executive s employment by the Company. 

NOW,
THEREFORE  , in consideration of the premises and mutual
covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
parties agree as follows: 

1 .              Term of Employment .  Except for earlier termination as provided in
Section 8 hereof, Executive s employment under this Agreement shall be on
the same basis as set forth in the Prior Employment Agreement and, as a result,
shall end on February 7, 2009 (the   Initial Employment Term  ),
provided that the Initial Employment Term shall be automatically extended for
additional terms of successive one (1) year periods (each, an   Additional Employment Term  ) unless the Company or Executive
gives written notice to the other at least ninety (90) days prior to the
expiration of the Initial Employment Term or then-current Additional Employment
Term that Executive s employment shall not be so extended.  The Initial Employment Term and each
Additional Employment Term shall be referred to herein as the   Employment Term .   

2 .              Positions .  (a) Executive shall serve as President,
North American Travel of the
Company.  Executive shall also serve, if
requested by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as an executive
officer and director of subsidiaries and a director of Affiliates of the
Company and shall comply with the policy of the Compensation Committee of the
Company s Board of Directors (the   Compensation Committee  )
with regard to retention or forfeiture of director s fees. 

(b)           Executive shall report directly to
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall have such duties and
authority, consistent with his then position, as shall be assigned to him from
time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (the   Board  ) or the Chief Executive Officer of
the Company.  

(c)           During the Employment Term, Executive
shall devote substantially all of his business time and efforts to the
performance of his duties hereunder;  provided, however ,
that Executive shall be allowed, to the extent that such activities do not
materially interfere with the performance of his duties and responsibilities
hereunder, to manage his personal financial and legal affairs and to serve on
corporate, civic, charitable and industry boards or committees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive  

shall only serve on
corporate boards of directors if approved in advance by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.  

3 .              Base Salary . During the
Employment Term, the Company shall pay Executive a base salary at the annual
rate of not less than $330,000.  Base
salary shall be payable in accordance with the usual payroll practices of the
Company.  Executive s base salary shall
be subject to annual review by the Board or the Compensation Committee during
the Employment Term and may be increased, but not decreased, from time to time
by the Board or the Compensation Committee. 
The base salary as determined as aforesaid from time to time shall
constitute   Base Salary   for purposes of this
Agreement.  

4 .              Incentive Compensation .  (a)   Bonus .  Executive shall be eligible to participate in
any annual bonus plan the Company may implement at any time during Executive s
Employment Term for senior executives at a level commensurate with his
position.  

(b)            Long
Term Compensation .  For each fiscal
year or portion thereof during the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible
to participate in any long-term incentive compensation plan generally made
available to senior executives of the Company at a level commensurate with his
position in accordance with and subject to the terms of such plan.  

(c)            Other
Compensation .  The Company may, upon
recommendation of the Compensation Committee, award to Executive such other
bonuses and compensation as it deems appropriate and reasonable.  

5 .              Employee Benefits and Vacation .  (a)  During the Employment Term,
Executive shall be entitled to participate in all benefit plans and
arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally provided to
comparable senior executives of the Company.  

(b)           During
the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to vacation each year in
accordance with the Company s policies in effect from time to time, but in no
event less than four (4) weeks paid vacation per calendar year.  Executive shall also be entitled to such
periods of sick leave as is customarily provided by the Company for its senior
executive employees.  

6 .              Business Expenses .  The Company shall reimburse Executive for the
travel, entertainment and other business expenses incurred by Executive in the
performance of his duties hereunder, in accordance with the Company s policies
as in effect from time to time;  provided ,
 however , that such expenses must
be paid no later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar
year in which such expenses were incurre d and  further provided 
that in no event will the amount of expenses so reimbursed in one taxable year
affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable
year. 

.7.             Termination .  (a)  The employment of Executive under
this Agreement shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of any of the
following events:  

(i)    the death of Executive;  

(ii)   the termination of Executive s employment by
the Company due to Executive s Disability pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof;  

(iii)  the termination of Executive s employment by
Executive for Good Reason pursuant to Section 7(c) hereof;  

(iv)  the termination of Executive s employment by
the Company without Cause;  

(v)   the termination of employment by Executive
without Good Reason upon sixty (60) days prior written notice; or  

(vi)  the termination of Executive s employment by
the Company for Cause pursuant to Section 7(e).  

2  

(b)            Disability .  If by reason of the same or related physical
or mental illness or incapacity, Executive is unable to carry out his
material duties pursuant to this Agreement for more than six (6) consecutive
months, the Company may terminate Executive s employment for disability (  Disabilit y ).  Such termination shall be upon thirty (30)
days written notice by a Notice of Disability Termination, at any time
thereafter while Executive consecutively continues to be unable to carry out
his duties as a result of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity.  A Termination for Disability hereunder shall
not be effective if Executive returns to the full-time performance of his
material duties within such thirty (30) day period.  

(c)            Termination
for Good Reason .  A Termination for
Good Reason means a termination by Executive by written notice given within
ninety (90) days after the occurrence of the Good Reason event, unless such
circumstances are fully corrected prior to the date of termination specified in
the Notice of Termination for Good Reason (as defined in Section 7(d) hereof).  For purposes of this Agreement,   Good Reason   shall mean the occurrence or failure to cause
the occurrence, as the case may be, without Executive s express written
consent, of any of the following circumstances: 
(i) any material diminution of Executive s positions, duties or
responsibilities hereunder (except in each case in connection with the
termination of Executive s employment for Cause or Disability or as a result of
Executive s death, or temporarily as a result of Executive s illness or other
absence) or, the assignment to Executive of duties or responsibilities that are
inconsistent with Executive s then position; (ii) removal of, or the
non-reelection of, Executive from officer positions with the Company specified
herein without election to a higher position or removal of Executive from any
of his then officer positions; (iii) a relocation of the Company s
executive office in Connecticut  to a
location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more
than thirty-five (35) miles further from Executive s residence at the time of
relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus
plan, program or arrangement in which Executive is entitled to participate (the
  Bonus Plans  ), provided that any such
Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company s discretion from time to time but
shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain
substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if
plans providing Executive with substantially similar benefits are not
substituted therefor (  Substitute Plans  ),
or (B) to continue Executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and
Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus
as Executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in
accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material
breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement, including, without
limitation, Section 12 hereof; or (vi) failure of any successor to
the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by merger, acquisition,
consolidation or otherwise) to assume in a writing delivered to Executive upon
the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company hereunder.  

(d)            Notice
of Termination for Good Reason .  A
Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall mean a notice that shall indicate
the specific termination provision in Section 7(c) relied upon and
shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to
provide a basis for Termination for Good Reason.  The failure by Executive to set forth in the
Notice of Termination for Good Reason any facts or circumstances which
contribute to the showing of Good Reason shall not waive any right of Executive
hereunder or preclude Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in
enforcing his rights hereunder.  The
Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall provide for a date of termination
not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days after the date such Notice
of Termination for Good Reason is given, provided that in the case of the
events set forth in Sections 7(c)(i) or (ii), the date may be five (5) days
after the giving of such notice.  

(e)            Cause .  Subject to the notification provisions of Section 7(f) below,
Executive s employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company for
Cause.  For purposes of this Agreement,
the term  Cause  shall be limited to (i) willful misconduct by Executive
with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the
willful refusal of Executive to attempt to   

3  

follow the proper
written direction of the Board or a more senior officer of the Company,
provided that the foregoing refusal shall not be  Cause  if Executive in good
faith believes that such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and
promptly so notifies the Board or the more senior officer (whichever is
applicable); (iii) substantial and continuing willful refusal by Executive
to attempt to perform the duties required of him hereunder (other than any such
failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a
written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive by the
Board or a more senior officer of the Company which specifically identifies the
manner in which it is believed that Executive has substantially and continually
refused to attempt to perform his duties hereunder; or (iv) Executive
being convicted of a felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation
or as a result of vicarious liability). 
For purposes of this paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on Executive s
part shall be considered  willful  unless done or omitted to be done, by him
not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was
in the best interests of the Company.  A
notice by the Company of a non-renewal of the Employment Term pursuant to Section 1
hereof shall be deemed an involuntary termination of Executive by the Company
without Cause as of the end of the then Employment Term, but Executive may
terminate at any time after the receipt of such notice and shall be treated as
if he was terminated without Cause as of such date.  

(f)             Notice
of Termination for Cause .  A Notice
of Termination for Cause shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific
termination provision in Section 7(e) relied upon and shall set forth
in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances which provide for a basis for
Termination for Cause.  Further, a Notice
of Termination for Cause shall be required to include a copy of a resolution
duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board
at a meeting of the Board which was called for the purpose of considering such
termination and which Executive and his representative had the right to attend
and address the Board, finding that, in the good faith of the Board, Executive
engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of Cause herein and specifying
the particulars thereof in reasonable detail. 
The date of termination for a Termination for Cause shall be the date
indicated in the Notice of Termination. 
Any purported Termination for Cause which is held by a court not to have
been based on the grounds set forth in this Agreement or not to have followed
the procedures set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed a Termination by the
Company without Cause.  

8.              Consequences of Termination of
Employment .  

(a)            Death .  If, Executive s employment is terminated by
reason of Executive s death, the employment period under this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations to Executive s legal representatives
under this Agreement except for:  (i) any
compensation earned but not yet paid, including and without limitation, any
bonus if declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year, any
amount of Base Salary earned but unpaid, any accrued vacation pay payable
pursuant to the Company s policies, and any unreimbursed business expenses
payable pursuant to Section 6 (collectively   Accrued
Amounts  ), which amounts shall be promptly paid in a lump sum to
Executive s estate; (ii) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive
under the then applicable employee benefit plans, long term incentive plans or
equity plans and programs of the Company which shall be paid or treated in
accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (iii) continuation,
for twelve (12) months following the date of death, of Executive s health
benefits for Executive s dependents at the same level and cost as if Executive
were an employee of the Company; and (iv) if a bonus plan is in place, the
product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive s
death, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the
Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid in a
lump sum when bonuses for such period are paid to the Company s other
executives, but, in any event, in the fiscal year following the fiscal year in
which such bonus is earned.  

(b)            Disability .  Subject to Section 8(f), if Executive s
employment is terminated by reason of Executive s Disability, Executive shall
be entitled to receive the payments and benefits to which   

4  

his
representatives would be entitled in the event of a termination of employment
by reason of his death plus Executive shall be entitled to continuation, for
twelve (12) months following such termination of employment, of group life and
disability insurance benefits as if Executive were an active employee of the
Company.  

(c)            Termination
by Executive for Good Reason or Termination by the Company without Cause .  (i)  Subject to Section 8(f), if
Executive terminates his employment hereunder for Good Reason during the
Employment Term or Executive s employment with the Company is terminated by the
Company without Cause, then Executive shall be entitled to receive, (A) in
equal installments paid in accordance with the Company s normal payroll
practices commencing with the first pay period after such termination over a
period of twelve (12) months after such termination (except as provided below),
an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of his Base Salary and target
bonus, if any, for the year in which such termination occurs (provided,
however, in the event that the Base Salary or target bonus, if any, has been
decreased in the twelve (12) months prior to the termination, the amount to be
used shall be the highest Base Salary and target bonus, if any, during such
twelve (12) month period); (B) any Accrued Amounts at the date of
termination; (C) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive under
the then applicable employee benefit, long term incentive or equity plans and
programs of the Company, which shall be paid or treated in accordance with the
terms of such plans and programs; (D) continuation of benefits (including
without limitation, health, life and disability) for a period of twelve (12)
months as if Executive were an employee of the Company, provided that, if such
termination is after a Change in Control, the period of benefit continuation
shall be twenty-four (24) months,  subject to the terms set forth in Section 8(c)(ii); and (E) if
a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for
the fiscal year of Executive s termination, multiplied by (y) a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during
which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is
365, which bonus shall be paid in a lump sum when bonuses for such period are
paid to the Company s other executives, but, in any event, in the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which such bonus is earned. 

(ii) With respect to the
continuation of group health benefits to Executive in connection with Executive s
termination of employment after a Change in Control pursuant to Section 8(c)(i)(D),
Executive shall pay the full cost for such group health coverage on an
after-tax basis for each month that Executive elects to retain such coverage by
payment of the monthly cost of such coverage as determined for purposes of
health care continuation under Section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the   COBRA Premium  ).  Within five (5) business days of the
date of Executive s termination of employment, the Company shall make a payment
to Executive equal to the number of full and partial months remaining in the
calendar year in which Executive s employment is terminated, multiplied by the
difference between the COBRA Premium for such year and the monthly amount that
Executive was required to pay for group health coverage immediately prior to
his termination of employment.  On each January 2
thereafter until the end of the twenty-four (24) month period, if Executive has
maintained group health coverage through the last day of the preceding calendar
year, the Company shall make a payment to Executive equal to the difference
between the COBRA Premium and the monthly amount that Executive was required to
pay for group health coverage immediately prior to his termination of
employment, multiplied by 12, or, if the period of coverage is for less than a
year, by the number of full and partial months remaining in the year until the
end of the twenty-four (24) month period. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first 18 months following the
date of    Executive s termination of
employment shall be considered to be the period during which Executive shall be
eligible for continuation coverage under Section 4980B of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the   Code  ).  

(d)            Termination
with Cause or Voluntary Resignation without Good Reason .  If, Executive s employment hereunder is
terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or (ii) by Executive   

5  

without Good
Reason, Executive shall be entitled to receive only his Base Salary through the
date of termination, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to
Section 6 and, if such termination is by Executive without Good Reason,
any bonus that has been declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed
fiscal year.  Executive s rights under
all benefits plans and equity grants shall be determined in accordance with the
Company s plans, programs and grants.  

(e)            Determination of Earned Bonus.   For purposes of this Agreement, a bonus in
respect of services performed in a fiscal year shall not be considered to be
earned until after the Committee and/or the Board, as applicable, has reviewed
the Company s performance and Executive s performance in respect of such
year  and has determined the amount of
the bonus, if any, to be payable to Executive in respect of such year s
performance;  provided ,  however , that if Executive is still
employed by the Company as of December 31 of any year, Executive shall be
considered to have earned the bonus in respect of services performed in such
year (to the extent that the Committee and/or the Board determine that such
bonus would otherwise have been payable to Executive had Executive remained
employed through the relevant payment date for such bonus) unless Executive s
employment is subsequently terminated by the Company for Cause or by Executive
without Good Reason.  

(f)             Separation from Service .   Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to
the contrary, if Executive is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A
of the Code) and any payment made pursuant to this Section 8 is considered
to be a  deferral of compensation  (as such phrase is defined for purposes of Section 409A
of the Code) that is payable upon Executive s  separation from service  (within
the meaning of Section 409A of the Code), then the payment date for such
payment shall be the date that is the first day of the seventh month after the
date of Executive s  separation from service  with the Company (determined in
accordance with Section 409A of the Code). 
In addition, if the event triggering Executive s right to benefits or
payments hereunder is Executive s termination of employment, but such
termination of employment does not constitute a  separation from service  with
the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the
benefits or payments hereunder payable by reason of such termination of
employment that are considered to be a  deferral of compensation  under Section 409A
of the Code shall not be paid upon such termination of employment, but instead,
shall remain an obligation of the Company to Executive and shall be paid or
provided to Executive upon the first to occur of the following events: (i) Executive s
 separation from service  (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code)
(any amount payable upon such  separation from service  being subject to the
first sentence of this Section 8(f)); (ii) Executive s disability
(within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code); (iii) a  change of
control  of the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code);
or (iv) Executive s death. 

9.              No Mitigation; No Set-Off .  In the event of any termination of employment
hereunder, Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment and
there shall be no offset against any amounts due Executive under this Agreement
on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that
Executive may obtain.  The amounts
payable hereunder shall not be subject to setoff, counterclaim, recoupment,
defense or other right which the Company may have against Executive or others,
except upon the Company s obtaining a final unappealable judgment against Executive.  

10.            Change in Control .  (a)  For purposes of this Agreement, the
term  Change in Control  shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following
events:  

(i)            any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly
or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent
(35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding
securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the   Company Voting Securities    provided ,
 however , that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall
not be deemed   

6  

to
be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company
Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);  

(ii)           individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the
Board (the  Incumbent Directors ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
majority of the Board;  provided ,  however , that any person becoming a
director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election or nomination for
election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy
statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for
director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least
two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval,
Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director;  provided ,  further ,
that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of
the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with
respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other
actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any
person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;  

(iii)          the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory
share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the
Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in
the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable
(any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a   Reorganization  ) or the sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an
entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a   Sale  ), unless immediately following such Reorganization or
Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the
election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than
a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the
entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the
entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company
(in either case, the   Surviving Entity  ),
or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or
indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power
(in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of
an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the   Parent Entity  ), is represented by Company
Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such
Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which
such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization
or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the
election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than
a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or,
if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a
majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the
case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there
is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the
Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the
execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale,
Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the
criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a   Non-Qualifying Transaction   or  

(iv)          the
stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or
dissolution of the Company.  

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting
Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities
by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities
outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in
Control;  provided ,  however , that if such Person subsequently
becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company
Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting
Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person to a percentage equal to or
greater than 35, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to
occur.  

7  

(b)           For
purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:  

(i)   Affiliate   shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as
defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the   Exchange Act    

(ii)   Beneficial Owner   shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  

(iii)   Person   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as
modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that
such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a
trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan
(or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant
to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or
indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of shares of common stock of the Company or (5) Executive
or any group of persons including Executive (or any entity controlled by
Executive or any group of persons including Executive).  

11.            Confidential
Information .  (a)  Executive
acknowledges that as a result of his employment by the Company, Executive will
obtain Confidential Information as to the Company and its Affiliates and the
Company and its Affiliates will suffer substantial damage, which would be
difficult to ascertain, if Executive should use such Confidential Information
and that because of the nature of the information that will be known to
Executive it is necessary for the Company and its Affiliates to be protected by
the confidentiality restrictions set forth herein.  For purposes of this Agreement,   Confidential Information   means information, observations
and data concerning the business or affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries
and Affiliates, including, without limitation, all business information
(whether or not in written form) which relates to the Company, its subsidiaries
or Affiliates, or their customers, suppliers or contractors or any other third
parties in respect of which the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates has a
business relationship or owes a duty of confidentiality, or their respective
businesses or products, and which is not known to the public generally other
than as a result of Executive s breach of this Agreement, including but not
limited to:  technical information or
reports; trade secrets; unwritten knowledge and  know-how  operating
instructions; training manuals; customer lists; customer buying records and
habits; product sales records and documents, and product development, marketing
and sales strategies; market surveys; marketing plans; profitability analyses;
product cost; long-range plans; information relating to pricing, competitive
strategies and new product development; information relating to any forms of
compensation or other personnel-related information; contracts; and supplier
lists.  Confidential Information will not
include (i) such information known to Executive prior to Executive s
involvement with the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates or information
obtained from a third party (other than pursuant to a breach by Executive of
this Agreement) or (ii) contact information contained in Executive s
personal rolodex or electronic address book.  

(b)           During
and for a period of five (5) years after the Employment Term, Executive
shall not use for his own benefit or disclose Confidential Information obtained
by Executive during his employment by the Company and its Affiliates and not (i) otherwise
public knowledge or known within the applicable industry or (ii) in
connection with performance of his duties hereunder as he deems in good   

8  

faith to be necessary or
desirable.  Executive shall not, without
prior written consent of the Company, unless compelled pursuant to the order of
a court or other governmental or legal body having jurisdiction over such
matter, communicate or divulge any such Confidential Information to anyone
other than the Company and those designated by it.  In the event Executive is compelled by order
of a court or other governmental or legal body to communicate or divulge any
such Confidential Information to anyone other than the foregoing, he shall
promptly notify the Company of any such order so it may seek a protective
order.  

(c)           Upon
termination of his employment with the Company and its affiliates, or at any
time as the Company may request, Executive will promptly deliver to the
Company, as requested, all documents (whether prepared by the Company, an
affiliate, Executive or a third party) relating to the Company, an affiliate or
any of their businesses or property which he may possess or have under his
direction or control other than documents provided to Executive in his capacity
as a participant in any employee benefit plan, policy or program of the Company
or any agreement by and between Executive and the Company with regard to
Executive s employment or severance.  

(d)           In
the event of a breach or potential breach of this Section 11, Executive
acknowledges that the Company and its affiliates will or could be caused
irreparable injury and that money damages may not be an adequate remedy and
agree that the Company and its Affiliates shall be entitled to injunctive
relief (in addition to its other remedies at law) to have the provisions of
this Section 11 enforced.  It is
hereby acknowledged that the provisions of this Section 11 are for the
benefit of the Company and all of the affiliates of the Company and each such
entity may enforce the provisions of this Section 11 and only the
applicable entity can waive the rights hereunder with respect to its
Confidential Information and employees.  

12.            Indemnification . The Company
shall indemnify and hold harmless Executive to the fullest extent permitted by
law for any action or inaction of Executive while serving as an officer and
director of the Company or, at the Company s request, as an officer or director
of any other entity or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan.  The Company shall cover Executive under
directors and officers liability insurance both during and, while potential
liability exists, after the Employment Term in the same amount and to the same
extent as the Company covers its other officers and directors.  

13.            Legal Fees .  

(a)           The
Company shall pay Executive s reasonable legal fees and costs associated with
entering into this Agreement.  All
payments by the Company of the legal fees of Executive under this Section 13(a) shall
be for expenses incurred during Executive s lifetime and shall be made within
ninety (90) days following the date Executive submits evidence of the
incurrence of such expenses, and in all events prior to the last day of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurs the
expense.  In no event will the amount of
expenses reimbursed or paid in one year affect the amount of expenses eligible
for reimbursement, or payment to, or for Executive in any other taxable year.  

(b)           All
disputes and controversies arising under or in connection with this Agreement,
other than the seeking of injunctive or other equitable relief pursuant to Section 11
hereof, shall be settled by arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators
sitting in New York City, New York, or such other location agreed by the
parties hereto, in accordance with the rules for expedited resolution of
commercial disputes of the American Arbitration Association then in
effect.  The determination of the
majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding on the parties.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the
arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction.  The Company shall promptly pay all expenses
of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the counsel of
Executive.  If the arbitrators determine
that Executive s position was overall frivolous or otherwise taken   

9  

in bad faith, the arbitrators
may determine that Executive be required to reimburse the Company for his own
legal fees.  All reimbursements or
payments by the Company of the legal fees of Executive under this Section 13(b) shall
be for expenses incurred during Executive s lifetime and shall be made within
ninety (90) days following the date Executive submits evidence of the
incurrence of such expenses, and in all events prior to the last day of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurs the expense.
 In no event will the amount of expenses
reimbursed or paid in one year affect the amount of expenses eligible for
reimbursement, or payment to, or for Executive in any other taxable year.  

(c)           In
the event after a Change in Control either party files for arbitration to
resolve any dispute as to whether a termination is for Cause or Good Reason,
until such dispute is determined by the arbitrators, Executive shall continue
to be treated economically and benefit wise in the manner asserted by him in
the arbitration effective as of the date of the filing of the arbitration,
subject to Executive promptly refunding any amounts paid to him, paying the
cost of any benefits provided to him and paying to the Company the profits in
any stock option or other equity awards exercised or otherwise realized by him
during the pendency of the arbitration which he is ultimately held not to be
entitled to; provided the arbitrators may terminate such payments and benefits
in the event that they determine at any point that Executive is intentionally
delaying conclusion of the arbitration.  

14.            Reserved .  

15.            Certain Additional Payments by the
Company .  

(a)           Subject to Section 8(f),
anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it
shall be determined that any payment, award, benefit or distribution (or any
acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or distribution) by the Company (or
any of its Affiliates) or any entity which effectuates a Change in Control (or
any of its Affiliates) to or for the benefit of Executive (whether pursuant to
the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any
additional payments required under this Section 15) (the   Payments  ) would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999
of the Code, or any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with
respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest
and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the   Excise Tax  ), then the Company shall pay to Executive an additional
payment (a   Gross-Up Payment  ) in an amount such
that after payment by Executive of all taxes (including any Excise Tax) imposed
upon the Gross-Up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment
equal to the sum of (x) the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments and (y) the
product of any deductions disallowed because of the inclusion of the Gross-Up
Payment in Executive s adjusted gross income and the highest applicable
marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the
Gross-Up Payment is to be made.  For
purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, Executive shall be
deemed to (i) pay federal income taxes at the highest actual marginal
rates of federal income taxation applicable to Executive for the calendar year
in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made, and (ii) pay applicable state
and local income taxes at the highest actual marginal rate of taxation
applicable to Executive for the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is
to be made, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be
obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this Section 15(a), if it shall be determined that Executive is entitled
to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the Payments would not be subject to the Excise
Tax if the Payments were reduced by an amount that is less than 5% of the
portion of the Payments that would be treated as  parachute payments  under Section 280G
of the Code, then the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement shall
be reduced (but not below zero) to the maximum amount that could be paid to
Executive without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the   Safe Harbor
Cap  ), and no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive.  The reduction of the amounts payable
hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing the payments under Section 8(c)(i) in
the following order: first, the payments under clause (A), second, the payments
under clause (E), and third, all other   

10  

payments
ratably.  For purposes of reducing the
Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under this Agreement (and
no other Payments) shall be reduced.  If
the reduction of the amounts payable hereunder would not result in a reduction
of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, no amounts payable under this Agreement
shall be reduced pursuant to this provision.  

(b)           Subject
to the provisions of Section 15(a), all determinations required to be made
under this Section 15, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is
required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, the reduction of the Payments to
the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such
determinations, shall be made by the public accounting firm that is retained by
the Company as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control (the   Accounting Firm  ) which shall provide detailed supporting
calculations both to the Company and Executive within fifteen
(15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Company or Executive
that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the
Company (collectively, the   Determination  ).  In the event that the Accounting Firm is
serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting
the Change in Control, Executive may appoint another nationally recognized
public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which
accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).  All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm
shall be borne solely by the Company and the Company shall enter into any
agreement requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance
of the services hereunder.  If the
Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive, it shall
furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that
failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on Executive s applicable federal
income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar
penalty.  In the event the Accounting
Firm determines that the Payments shall be reduced to the Safe Harbor Cap, it
shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect.  The Determination by the Accounting Firm
shall be binding upon the Company and Executive.  As a result of the uncertainty in the
application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the Determination,
it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the
Company should have been made (  Underpayment  )
or Gross-Up Payments are made by the Company which should not have been made (  Overpayment  ), consistent with the calculations required to
be made hereunder.  In the event that
Executive thereafter is required to make payment of any Excise Tax or
additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the
Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment (together with
interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code)
shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive.  In the event the amount of the Gross-Up
Payment exceeds the amount necessary to reimburse Executive for his Excise Tax,
the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Overpayment that has been
made and any such Overpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2) of
the Code) shall be promptly paid by Executive (to the extent he has received a
refund if the applicable Excise Tax has been paid to the Internal Revenue
Service) to or for the benefit of the Company;  provided ,  however ,
that such repayment obligation shall not apply to the extent it would be
treated as a prohibited personal loan from the Company to Executive for
purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
Executive shall cooperate, to the extent his expenses are reimbursed by
the Company, with any reasonable requests by the Company in connection with any
contests or disputes with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the
Excise Tax.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Section 15 to the contrary, all taxes and expenses
described in this Section 15 shall be paid or reimbursed within fifteen
(15) days after the determination thereof pursuant to the terms of this Section 15
or after Executive submits evidence of the incurrence of such taxes and/or
expenses.  Executive shall be required to
submit all requests for reimbursements no later than ninety (90) days prior to
the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the
applicable taxes are remitted or, in the case of reimbursement of expenses
incurred due to a tax audit or litigation with respect to which there is no
remittance of taxes, the last day of the calendar year following the calendar
year in which the audit is completed or there is a final and nonappealable
settlement or other resolution of the litigation in accordance with Treasury
Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(v). 
Any expenses, including interest and penalties assessed on the taxes
described in this Section 15,   

11  

incurred by Executive shall be
reimbursed promptly after Executive submits evidence of the incurrence of such
expenses, which reimbursement in no event will be later than the last day of
the calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurs the
expense.  

16.            Miscellaneous .  

(a)            Governing Law .  This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without
reference to principles of conflict of laws.  

(b)            Entire Agreement/Amendments .  This Agreement and the instruments
contemplated herein, contain the entire understanding of the parties with
respect to the employment of Executive by the Company from and after the
Effective Date and supersedes any prior agreements between the Company and
Executive, including the Prior Employment Agreement.  There are no restrictions, agreements,
promises, warranties, covenants or undertakings between the parties with
respect to the subject matter herein other than those expressly set forth
herein and therein.  This Agreement may
not be altered, modified, or amended except by written instrument signed by the
parties hereto.  

(c)            No Waiver .  The failure of a party to insist upon strict
adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion shall not be considered
a waiver of such party s rights or deprive such party of the right thereafter
to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this
Agreement.  Any such waiver must be in
writing and signed by Executive or an authorized officer of the Company, as the
case may be.  

(d)            Assignment .  This Agreement shall not be assignable by
Executive.  This Agreement shall be
assignable by the Company only to an acquirer of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company, provided such acquirer promptly assumes all of the
obligations hereunder of the Company in a writing delivered to Executive and
otherwise complies with the provisions hereof with regard to such assumption.  

(e)            Successors; Binding Agreement;
Third Party Beneficiaries .  This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the personal or
legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs,
distributees, devisees legatees and permitted assignees of the parties hereto.  

(f)             Communications .  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices
and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) when faxed or delivered,
or (ii) two (2) business days after being mailed by United States
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the initial page of
this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to
the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as any
party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  Notice of change of address shall be
effective only upon receipt.  

(g)            Withholding Taxes .  The Company may withhold from any and all
amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state and local taxes as may
be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.  

(h)            Survivorship .  The respective rights and obligations of the
parties hereunder, including, without limitation, Section 11 hereof, shall
survive any termination of Executive s employment to the extent necessary to
the agreed preservation of such rights and obligations.  

12  

(i)             Counterparts .  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts
(including via facsimile), each of which shall be an original, with the same
effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  

(j)             Headings .  The headings of the sections contained in
this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or
affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.  

(k)            Section 409A
of the Code .  Each payment or
reimbursement and the provision of each benefit under this Agreement shall be
considered a separate payment and not one of a series of payments for purposes
of Section 409A of the Code. 
Furthermore, in the event that any payment made hereunder is subject to
payment during a specified time frame ( e.g. ,
within 90 days of a termination of employment) as opposed to payment on a
specific payment date ( e.g. , January 1,
2010), the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine the exact date upon
which such payment will be made during the specified payment period.    To
the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the
provisions of Section 409A of the Code so that the income inclusion
provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) do not apply to Executive.  This Agreement shall be administered in a
manner consistent with this intent. 
Reference to Section 409A of the Code is to Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and will also include any
regulations, or any other formal guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by
the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.  

13  

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and
year first above written.  

priceline.com Incorporated  

By:  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Chief Executive Officer  

priceline.com Incorporated  

/s/ Chris Soder  

Chris Soder  

14  

AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT    

BY AND BETWEEN  

PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED  

AND  

CHRIS SODER  

DECEMBER 18, 2008  

</EX-10.55>

<EX-10.56>
 6
 a09-1364_1ex10d56.htm
 EX-10.56

Exhibit
10.56   

December 16, 2008  

Daniel Finnegan  

  c/o priceline.com Incorporated  

  800 Connecticut Avenue  

  Norwalk, CT 06854  

Dear
Dan:  

This letter serves to amend the letter
agreement between you and priceline.com Incorporated (the    Company   ), dated October 19,
2005 (the    Severance
Agreement   ), to   account for the effect of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (   Section 409A of the Code   )
on the Severance Agreement.  Capitalized
terms that are used herein shall have the same meaning as those terms used in
the Severance Agreement.  

First, in the event you terminate your
employment with the Company for Good Reason or your employment is terminated by
the Company without Cause, the Severance Agreement shall be modified to provide
that any severance amount payable to you under clause (A) in the second
paragraph of the Severance Agreement   shall be paid in equal
installments over a period of twelve (12) months after the termination of your
employment in accordance with the Company s regular payroll practices.  

Second, in the event you terminate your
employment with the Company for Good Reason or your employment is terminated by
the Company without Cause, the Severance Agreement shall be modified to provide
that any bonus amounts payable to you under clause (E) in the second
paragraph of the Severance Agreement shall be paid in a lump sum when bonuses
for the applicable period are paid to the Company s other executives, but, in
any event, in the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the applicable
bonus is earned.  

Third,   notwithstanding anything in
the Severance Agreement to the contrary, if you are a  specified employee 
(within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) and any payment made
pursuant to the Severance Agreement is considered to be a  deferral of
compensation  (as such phrase is defined for purposes of Section 409A of
the Code) that is payable upon your  separation from service  (within the
meaning of Section 409A of the Code), then the payment date for such
payment shall be the date that is the first day of the seventh month after the
date of your  separation from service  with the Company (determined in
accordance with Section 409A of the Code). 
In addition, if the event triggering your right to benefits or payments
under the Severance Agreement is your termination of employment, but such
termination of employment does not constitute a  separation from service  with
the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the
benefits or payments under your Severance Agreement payable by reason of such
termination of employment that are considered to be a  deferral of compensation 
under Section 409A of the Code shall not be paid upon such termination of
employment, but instead, shall remain an obligation of the Company to you and
shall be paid or provided to you upon the first to occur of the following
events: (i) your  separation from service  (within the meaning of Section 409A
of the Code) (any amount payable upon such  separation from service  being
subject to the first sentence of this of this paragraph); (ii) your
disability (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code); (iii) a  change
of control  of the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the
Code); or (iv) your death.  

Fourth, the Severance Agreement is amended to provide that each payment
and the provision of each benefit under the Severance Agreement shall be
considered a separate payment and not one of a series of payments for purposes
of Section 409A of the Code.  

To the extent applicable, it is intended that this letter and the
Severance Agreement    comply with
the provisions of Section 409A of the Code so that the income inclusion
provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) do not apply to you.  This letter and the Severance Agreement shall
be administered in a manner consistent with this intent.  References to Section 409A of the Code
also include any regulations, or any other formal guidance, promulgated with
respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the
Internal Revenue Service.  

This letter shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware    without reference to principles of
conflict of laws.    Furthermore,
the Company may, without your consent, assign its rights and obligations under
this letter and the Severance Agreement, and the terms of this letter and the
Severance Agreement shall be fully enforceable by any such assignee.  

Except as otherwise provided herein, the Severance Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.  

Warm regards,  

Acknowledged and Agreed:  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

/s/ Daniel Finnegan  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Daniel Finnegan  

2  

</EX-10.56>

<EX-10.57>
 7
 a09-1364_1ex10d57.htm
 EX-10.57

Exhibit 10.57   

Execution
Copy    

AMENDED AND RESTATED   

   EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT   

The
undersigned   :  

BOOKING.COM B.V.,    a private limited
liability company ( besloten vennootschap met   beperkte
aansprakelijheid ), having its registered office at Weteringschans 28,1017 SG
Amsterdam,   the Netherlands (  Booking.com  );  

and  

Cornelis
Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen, residing at   Hengeloseweg 11, 7251 PA Vorden   (  Employee  );  

Whereas   :  

Employee
  has been employed by Booking.com since December 18, 2001.  

Booking.com
  and Employee are currently parties to an Employment Contract, dated
  July 14, 2005 (  Prior Employment
  Contract  ).  

Booking.com
  has promoted Employee to the position of Chief Executive Officer of
  Booking.com, effective as of September 1, 2008.  

In
  connection with Employee s promotion, Booking.com and Employee desire to
  amend and restate the Prior Employment Contract.  

This Amended and Restated Employment Contract (this     Agreement    ) shall
  supercede and completely replace the Prior Employment Contract as of
  September 1, 2008 (the     Effective Date    ).  

Hereby
agrees as follows   :  

1.   

Commencement,
  Term and Notice   

1.1.  

This
  Agreement is a continuation of the Prior Employment Contract and is entered
  into for an indefinite period of time (the   Employment
  Term  ).  

1.2.  

This
  Agreement may be terminated by either party with due observance of the
  statutory notice period. Notice may be given in writing only.  

1.3.  

This
  Agreement will end in any event without notice being required at the end of
  the month in which Employee reaches the age of 65.  

2.   

Reserved   

3.   

Employee Manual   

3.1.  

Employee
  acknowledges receipt of Booking.com s Employee Manual, the provisions of which
  form an integral part of this Agreement.  

4.   

Position   

4.1.  

Employee
  will hold the position of Chief Executive Officer of Booking.com and report
  to Jeff Boyd, Chief Executive Officer and President of priceline.com
  Incorporated.  

4.2.  

Employee
  may be assigned to work for an affiliate of Booking.com and covenants that
  Employee, to the extent reasonable, will also perform duties other than those
  considered Employee s usual duties.  

5.   

Working Hours
  and Work Place   

5.1.  

The
  usual work week runs for 5 days and Employee is expected to work at least 40
  hours per week.  

5.2.  

Employee
  covenants that, at Booking.com s request, Employee will work overtime
  whenever a proper performance of Employee so requires. Overtime is not paid
  or otherwise compensated for.  

6.   

Salary   

6.1.  

Employee
  will receive a gross monthly base salary of EUR 20,061.72 on the basis of a
  40 hour work week (  Base Salary  ).  

6.2.  

Employee
  will be entitled to an annual holiday allowance of 8% of the gross annual
  base salary, payable in May each year. If Employee was employed during
  only a part of the calendar year, the holiday allowance will be reduced pro
  rata.  

6.3.  

During
  the Employment Term, Employee will be eligible to participate in any annual
  bonus plans that the Company may implement at any time during the Employment
  Term for senior executives of the Company at a level commensurate with his
  position. The grant of a bonus in any given year or during several years
  shall not create a precedent for any subsequent years. For purposes of this
  Agreement, a bonus in respect of services performed in a fiscal year will not
  be considered to be earned until after the Board of Directors of
  priceline.com Incorporated (the   Board  )
  or a committee established thereunder has reviewed the Company s performance
  and Employee s performance in  

2  

respect
  of such year and has determined the amount of the bonus, if any, to be
  payable to Employee in respect of such year s performance; provided, however,
  that if Employee is still employed by Booking.com as of December 31 of
  any year, Employee shall be considered to have earned the bonus in respect of
  services performed in such year (to the extent that the Board or applicable
  committee determine that such bonus would otherwise have been payable to
  Employee had Employee remained employed through the relevant payment date for
  such bonus) unless Employee s employment is subsequently terminated by
  Booking.com for  Cause  (as defined in  Appendix A  attached hereto) or
  by Employee without  Good Reason  (as defined in  Appendix A  attached
  hereto).  

6.4.  

During
  the Employment Term, Employee will be eligible to participate in any
  long-term incentive compensation plan generally made available to senior executives
  of the Company at a level commensurate with his position in accordance with
  and subject to the terms of such plan.  

6.5.  

During
  the Employment Term, Employee shall be entitled to participate in all fringe
  benefit and perquisite programs generally provided to comparable senior
  executives of the Company.  

7.   

Expenses   

7.1.  

Booking.com
  will reimburse Employee s reasonable expenses directly related to the
  performance of Employee s work, provided such reimbursement may be made tax
  and social security premium free and provided itemized expense statements and
  original receipts are submitted in accordance with company policy.  

8.   

Travel Expenses   

8.1.  

Travel
  expenses for commuting will be reimbursed in accordance with applicable tax
  rules up to an amount of EUR 0.19 per kilometer along the most customary
  route, subject to a maximum of EUR 135 per month (applicable rates in 2008).  

8.2.  

Booking.com
  is entitled to unilaterally change the allowance under Article 8.1 of
  this Agreement in the event of an adjustment thereof under tax law.  

9.   

Pension   

9.1.  

During
  the Employment Term, Employee will be entitled to participate in
  Booking.com s pension plan, if and as soon as Employee meets the relevant
  requirements. If and insofar as tax law and/or pension law are amended,
  Booking.com will be entitled to unilaterally adapt the pension plan to bring
  it into compliance with such amendments.  

3  

10.   

Holidays   

10.1.  

During the Employment Term, Employee
  will be entitled to 26 days of holiday each calendar year. If Employee works
  for only a part of the year, the number of days of holiday will be reduced
  pro rata.  

10.2.  

Holidays
  are set by Booking.com after consultation with Employee.  

10.3.  

To the
  extent possible, holidays must be taken in the year in which they are
  accrued. A maximum of five days may be carried forward to the next calendar
  year.  

11.   

Illness or
  Other Incapacity to Work   

11.1.  

If Employee is unable to perform
  work due to illness or any other medical incapacity, Employee is obliged to
  inform Booking.com thereof before 9am on the first day of illness or
  incapacity, stating the reasons for such illness or incapacity, the expected
  period of such illness or incapacity, and the address at which Employee may
  be reached during that period. As soon as work can be resumed, Employee will
  inform Booking.com thereof immediately.  

11.2.  

If
  Employee is unable to perform work due to illness or other medical
  incapacity, Employee will remain entitled to continued payment of 85% of
  Employee s Base Salary, but in no case less than the statutory minimum wage,
  for a maximum period of 104 weeks commencing on the first day of illness or
  incapacity.  

11.3.  

Periods
  in which Employee is unable to perform work due to illness or other medical
  incapacity will be aggregated if they follow one another at intervals of less
  than four weeks.  

11.4.  

Employee
  is not entitled to continued payment under the circumstances set out in
  Article 7:629 of the Dutch Civil Code.  

11.5.  

Employee s
  salary during illness or other medical capacity will be reduced by financial
  benefits that Employee receives under any contractual or statutory insurance
  and any other income earned by Employee.  

11.6.  

If
  Employee s illness or other incapacity to work ensues from an event for which
  a third party is liable, Employee shall provide Booking.com with all relevant
  information and do everything in Employee s power to enable Booking.com to
  exercise its right of recourse pursuant to Article 6:107a of the Dutch
  Civil Code.  

12.   

Payments Upon
  Termination   

12.1.  

If the Employment Term ends due to Employee s death and
  if a bonus plan is in place at such time, Employee is entitled to receive the
  product of (a) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year in which
  Employee dies, multiplied by (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is
  the number of days that  

4  

Employee worked during the fiscal year in which
  Employee died, and the denominator of which is 365. Such bonus shall be paid
  when such bonuses are paid to other executives of Booking.com.  

12.2.  

If the Employment Term ends due to the termination of
  Employee s employment with Booking.com as a result of a termination by
  Booking.com without  Cause  (as defined in  Appendix A  attached hereto)
  or as a result of a termination by Employee for  Good Reason  (as defined in  Appendix
  A  attached hereto), Employee shall be entitled to receive (a) over a
  period of 12 months after his termination, an amount equal to 2 times the sum
  of Employee s Base Salary and target bonus, if any, for the year in which
  such termination occurs (provided, however, in the event that the Base Salary
  or target bonus, if any, has been decreased in the twelve months prior to the
  termination, the amount to be used shall be the highest Base Salary and
  target bonus, if any, during such 12 month period); and (b) if a bonus
  plan is in place, Employee will be entitled to receive the product of
  (i) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year in which Employee is
  terminated, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the
  number of days that Employee worked during the fiscal year in which Employee
  is terminated, and the denominator of which is 365. Such bonus shall be paid
  when such bonuses are paid to other executives of Booking.com.  

12.3.  

If the Agreement is rescinded pursuant to Article 7:685 of the
  Dutch Civil Code and the court awards compensation to Employee, or if a court
  awards any compensation as a result of proceedings on the basis of
  Article 7:681 of the Dutch Civil Code, the amount of such award shall be
  deducted from the amount of compensation to which Employee would be entitled
  pursuant to Article 12.1 or Article 12.2 of this Agreement,
  whichever is applicable, in the event of Employee s termination of employment
  as a result of his death, a termination without  Cause  or a termination for
   Good Reason.   

13.   

Confidentiality   

13.1.  

Neither
  during the Employment Term nor upon termination thereof, may Employee inform
  any third party in any form, directly or indirectly, of any particulars
  concerning or related to the business conducted by Booking.com or its
  affiliated companies, regardless of whether such information includes any
  reference to its confidential nature or ownership and regardless of how
  Employee learned of the particulars.  

13.2.  

Notwithstanding
  the provisions of Article 7:650(3), (4) and (5) of the Dutch
  Civil Code, if Employee violates Article 13.1, Employee will forfeit to
  Booking.com an immediately due and payable penalty of EUR 5,000 for each
  violation, as well as a penalty of EUR 1,000 for each day the violation
  continues, without prejudice to Booking.com s right to claim full
  compensation instead of such penalties.  

5  

14.   

Non Competition   

14.1.  

For a
  period of 12 months after termination, Employee may not, without
  Booking.com s prior written consent:  

(a)  

engage
  in any activities that in any way, directly or indirectly, compete with
  Booking.com or its affiliates (including priceline.com Incorporated) in the
  European Union, including, without limitation, the research into, development
  or provision of any online or call centre accommodation booking or
  reservation services, nor establish, conduct (alone or with others) or cause
  the conduct of any competing business, nor take any interest in or be
  employed in any way whatsoever by such business, whether or not for
  consideration;  

(b)  

directly
  or indirectly induce employees of Booking.com or its affiliates to terminate
  their employment contracts with Booking.com or its affiliates;  

(c)  

in relation to any
  contract or arrangement which Booking.com or it affiliates have with any
  supplier for the supply of goods and services, for the duration of such contract
  or arrangement, directly or indirectly, interfere with the supply of such
  goods or services from any supplier, nor, directly or indirectly, induce any
  supplier to cease or decline to supply such goods or services to Booking.com;  

(d)  

make any statements,
  written or oral, which disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of
  Booking.com or its affiliates, or any of their directors or senior officers,
  in public or in a manner that is intended to become public.  

14.2  

Notwithstanding
  the provisions of Article 7:650(3), (4) and (5) of the Dutch
  Civil Code, if Employee violates Article 14.1 of this Agreement,
  Employee will forfeit to Booking.com an immediately due and payable penalty
  of EUR 5,000 for each violation, as well as a penalty of EUR 1,000 for each
  day the violation continues, without prejudice to Booking.com s right to
  claim full compensation instead of such penalties.  

14.3  

Upon
  each breach of Article 14.1 of this Agreement, the period referred to
  therein will be extended by the duration of such breach.  

15.   

Sidelines   

15.1.  

Without
  Booking.com s prior written consent, Employee will not perform any other work
  for pay during the Employment Term, nor will Employee, alone or with others,
  directly or indirectly, establish or conduct a business that is competitive
  with Booking.com s business, whatever its form, or take any financial
  interest in or perform work for such business, whether or not for
  consideration.  

15.2.  

During
  the Employment Term, Employee must refrain from undertaking or holding any
  sidelines or additional posts, such as committee work, managerial or other
  activities for organizations of an  

6  

idealistic,
  cultural, sporting, political or other nature, whether or not for consideration,
  without Booking.com s prior written consent.  

16.   

Return of
  Property   

16.1.  

Upon
  the end of the Employment Term, Employee shall immediately return to
  Booking.com all property belonging to Booking.com, including materials,
  documents and information copied in any form whatsoever.  

17.   

Intellectual
  and Industrial Property Rights   

17.1.  

All
  intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patent rights,
  design rights, copyrights and neighbouring rights, database rights, trademark
  rights, chip rights, trade name rights and know how, ensuing, during or after
  this employment contract, in The Netherlands or abroad, from the work
  performed by Employee under this Agreement (collectively:   Intellectual Property Rights  ) will exclusively vest in
  Booking.com.  

17.2.  

Insofar
  as any Intellectual Property Rights are not vested in Booking.com by
  operation of law, Employee covenants that Employee, at first request of
  Booking.com, will transfer to Booking.com and, insofar as possible, hereby
  transfers those rights to Booking.com, which transfer is hereby accepted by
  Booking.com.  

17.3.  

Insofar
  as any Intellectual Property Rights are not capable of being transferred from
  Employee to Booking.com, Employee hereby grants Booking.com the exclusive,
  royalty free, worldwide, perpetual right, with the right to grant
  sublicenses, to use the Intellectual Property Rights in the broadest way,
  which right is hereby accepted by Booking.com.  

17.4.  

Insofar
  as any personal rights vest in Employee, and insofar as permitted by law,
  Employee hereby waives all of Employee s personal rights, including, without
  limitation, the right to have one s name stated pursuant to the Dutch
  Copyright Act 1912 (   Auteurswet 1912   ).  

17.5.  

Employee
  shall promptly disclose all works, inventions, information, Intellectual
  Property Rights and other results from the work performed by Employee under
  this Agreement to Booking.com.  

17.6.  

Employee
  shall upon Booking.com s request, during or after the Employment Term,
  perform all acts that may be necessary in order to record the Intellectual
  Property Rights in the name of Booking.com with any competent authority in
  the world. Reasonable costs thereof will be borne by Booking.com.  

17.7.  

In case
  Employee, for any reason, is unable to provide the cooperation in accordance
  with Articles 17.2 and 17.6 of this Agreement, Employee hereby grants
  Booking.com irrevocable power of attorney to represent Employee with respect
  to the assignment and registration of Intellectual Property Rights referred
  to in Articles 17.2 and 17.6 of this Agreement.  

7  

17.8.  

Employee
  acknowledges that Employee s salary includes reasonable compensation for the
  loss of intellectual and industrial property rights.  

18.   

Applicable Law   

18.1.  

This
  Agreement and its appendix shall be governed by the laws of The Netherlands.  

19.   

Complete Agreement   

19.1.  

This Agreement embodies
  the complete agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to
  the subject matter hereof and effective as of its date supersedes and
  preempts any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or
  between the parties, written or oral, including the Prior Employment
  Contract, which may have related to the subject matter hereof in any way.  

Drawn up
in duplicate originals and signed in Amsterdam on January 29, 2009  

/s/ Rutger Prakke  

/s/ Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen  

Booking.com B.V.  

Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen  

Name: Ruger Prakke    

Position: Director    

8  

APPENDIX A    

For purposes of this
Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings where they appear in
the Agreement:  

Cause   shall mean   (a) willful misconduct by Employee
with regard to Booking.com which has a material adverse effect on Booking.com; (b) the
willful refusal of Employee to attempt to follow the proper written direction
of the Board or a more senior officer of the Company, provided that the
foregoing refusal shall not be  Cause  if Employee in good faith believes that
such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and promptly so notifies the
Board or the more senior officer (whichever is applicable); (c) substantial
and continuing willful refusal by Employee to attempt to perform the duties
required of him hereunder (other than any such failure resulting from
incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for
substantial performance is delivered to Employee by the Board or a more senior
officer of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which it is
believed that Employee has substantially and continually refused to attempt to
perform his duties hereunder; or (d) Employee being convicted of a felony
(other than a felony involving a traffic violation or as a result of vicarious
liability).  For purposes of this
definition, no act, or failure to act, on Employee s part shall be considered  willful 
unless done, or omitted to be done, by Employee in bad faith and without
reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of
Booking.com.  

Company   shall mean priceline.com
Incorporated, any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including Booking.com.  

Good Reason   shall mean   (a) a material diminution in
Employee s authority, duties or responsibilities, (b) relocation of
Booking.com s office in The Netherlands to a location more than thirty-five
(35) miles from its current location or more than thirty-five (35) miles
further from Employee s residence at the time of relocation, or (c) any
material breach of the Agreement or any other employment agreement in effect at
any time between Booking.com and Employee.  

9  

</EX-10.57>

<EX-12.1>
 8
 a09-1364_1ex12d1.htm
 EX-12.1

Exhibit 12.1   

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

(in thousands)  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21>
 9
 a09-1364_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   

LIST OF
SUBSIDIARIES   

   AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2008*   

Name    

Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation   

Percent 
  Ownership   

1.  

Priceline.com Europe Holdco, Inc.  

Delaware  

100%  

2.  

Priceline.com Holdco U.K. Limited  

United Kingdom  

100%  

3.  

priceline.com International Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

100%  

4.  

Booking.com Limited  

United Kingdom  

100%  

5.  

priceline.com Booking Acquisition Company Limited  

United Kingdom  

100%  

6.  

Booking.com B.V.  

The Netherlands  

100%  

7.  

Lowestfare.com LLC  

Delaware  

100%  

8.  

Travelweb LLC  

Delaware  

100%  

9.  

Priceline.com Agoda Holdco, LLC  

Delaware  

100%  

10.  

priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited  

Mauritius  

100%  

*                    Subsidiaries
which, when considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would
constitute a significant subsidiary as of December 31, 2008, have been
excluded. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 a09-1364_1ex23d1.htm
 EX-23.1

Exhibit 23.1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements Nos.
333-122414, 333-65054, 333-55578, 333-83233 on Form S-8 and Nos.
333-119274, 333-109929, 333-115128, 333-139590 and 333-139109 on Form S-3
of our report dated February 20, 2009, relating to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a09-1364_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31.1

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATIONS   

I, Jeffery H. Boyd, certify that:   

1.             I have reviewed the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated (the  Registrant ) for the year
ended December 31, 2008;  

2.             Based on my knowledge, this report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.             Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;  

4.             The Registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the Registrant and
we have:  

a.                  designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b.                 designed such internal control over
financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting
to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c.                  evaluated the effectiveness of the
Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d.                 disclosed in this report any change in
the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5.             The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

a.                  all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b.                 any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Dated: February 20, 2009  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Title:  

President   Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a09-1364_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31.2

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATIONS   

I, Daniel J. Finnegan., certify that:   

1.             I have reviewed the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated (the  Registrant ) for the year
ended December 31, 2008;  

2.             Based on my knowledge, this report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.             Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;  

4.             The Registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we
have:  

a.                  designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b.                 designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c.                  evaluated the effectiveness of the
Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d.                 disclosed in this report any change in
the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5.             The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a.                  all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b.                 any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated: February 20, 2009  

/s/ Daniel J. Finnegan  

Name:  

Daniel J. Finnegan  

Title:  

Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a09-1364_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32.1

Exhibit 32.1   

Certification   

   Pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

   (Subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code)   

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 
 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements
of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

Dated: February 20, 2009  

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Title:  

President   Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a
separate disclosure document.  

A signed original of
this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 a09-1364_1ex32d2.htm
 EX-32.2

Exhibit 32.2   

Certification   

   Pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

   (Subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code)   

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 
 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements
of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

Dated: February 20, 2009  

/s/ Daniel J. Finnegan  

Name:  

Daniel J. Finnegan  

Title:  

Chief Financial Officer and
  Chief 
  Accounting Officer  

The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a
separate disclosure document.  

A signed original of
this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

