<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100219_10-K_edgar_data_1075531_0001104659-10-008002_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3473780</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>588329</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>38042</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2037771</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>78</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-10-008002.hdr.sgml : 20100219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100218191619
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-10-008002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100218

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PRICELINE COM INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001075531
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				061528493
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25581
		FILM NUMBER:		10617775

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 CONNECTICUT AVE
		CITY:			NORWALK
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06854
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2037053000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 N+62f+KjJZbw6M0b5U7LH1eZKf2tJXHpMRs+FVoGVMPEet4TGmEXoIKLXOkI0w+T
 Zc5Q5oqxGk7r6X5cqfS+Lw==

 0001104659-10-008002.txt : 20100219

10-K
 1
 a09-35847_210k.htm
 10-K

Table of
Contents   

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

For the fiscal year ended: December 31, 2009   

Commission File No.: 0-25581   

priceline.com Incorporated   

  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   

06-1528493   

(State or other
  Jurisdiction of Incorporation or 
  Organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer
  Identification No.)  

800
  Connecticut Avenue   

Norwalk,
  Connecticut   

06854   

(Address of Principal
  Executive Offices)  

(Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (203) 299-8000   

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of
  Each Class:   

Name of
  Each Exchange on which Registered:   

Common Stock,
  par value $0.008 per share  

The NASDAQ
  Global Select Market  

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None.   

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  Yes   x    No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes   o    No   x  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   x    No   o  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate
Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  229.405 of this chapter)
during the preceeding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).  Yes   o      No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.    o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of  large
accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act (Check one):  

Large accelerated filer    x  

Accelerated filer    o  

Non-accelerated filer    o  

Smaller reporting company    o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes   o    No   x  

The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of
priceline.com as of June 30, 2009 was approximately $2.7 billion based
upon the closing price reported for such date on the Nasdaq Global Select
Market.  For purposes of this disclosure,
shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors of
priceline.com on June 30, 2009 have been excluded because such persons may
be deemed to be affiliates of priceline.com. 
This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive
determination for other purposes.  

The
number of outstanding shares of priceline.com s common stock was 45,581,142 as
of February 10, 2010.  

Table of
Contents   

DOCUMENTS INCORPOR  ATED BY REFERENCE  

The
information required by Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
to the extent not set forth in this Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference
from priceline.com s definitive proxy statement relating to the annual meeting
of stockholders to be held on June 3, 2010, to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of
priceline.com s fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.  

priceline.com
Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31,
2009 Index  

Page No.   

PART I   

1  

Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements   

1  

Item 1.   

Business   

1  

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

15  

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   

32  

Item 2.   

Properties   

32  

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   

33  

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a
  Vote of Security Holders   

49  

PART II   

50  

Item 5.    

Market for Registrant s
  Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
  Securities   

50  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

53  

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

54  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative
  Disclosures About Market Risk   

83  

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and
  Supplementary Data   

84  

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements
  with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

84  

Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures   

84  

Item 9B.   

Other Information   

86  

PART III   

87  

Item 10.   

Directors, Executive
  Officers and Corporate Governance   

87  

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   

87  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of
  Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

87  

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and
  Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

87  

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees
  and Services   

87  

PART IV   

88  

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial
  Statement Schedules   

88  

Signatures   

92  

Consolidated Financial Statements   

94  

Table
of Contents   

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements      

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents
incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties
and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including the Risk Factors
identified in Item 1A of this Annual Report; therefore, actual results may
differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such
forward-looking statements.   

Expressions
of future goals, expectations and similar expressions including, without
limitation,  may,   will,   should,   could,   expects,   does not currently
expect,   plans,   anticipates,   intends,   believes,   estimates, 
 predicts,   potential,   targets,  or  continue,  reflecting something other
than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our
actual results could differ materially from those described in the
forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face
which are more fully described in Item 1A,  Risk Factors.   Unless required by law, we undertake no
obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should
carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time
with the SEC, particularly our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K.  

PART I     

Item 1.  Business      

General   

Priceline.com
Incorporated ( priceline.com,  the  Company,   we,   our  or  us ) is a leading
online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of travel
services, including hotel rooms, car rentals, airline tickets, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. Internationally, we offer our
customers hotel room reservations in over 90 countries and 32 languages. 
In the United States, we offer our customers a unique choice: the ability to
purchase travel services in a traditional, price-disclosed manner or the
opportunity to use our unique  Name Your Own
Price   service, which allows our customers to make offers for
travel services at discounted prices.  

We
launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com
brand and have since expanded our operations to include, among others, the
brands Booking.com worldwide and Agoda in Asia.  Our principal goal is to
be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service.  Our business
is driven primarily by international results. 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, our international business
  the significant majority of which is currently generated by Booking.com  
represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings (an operating and
statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes
and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately
75% of our consolidated operating income. 
Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel
reservation services, commissions earned in connection with the reservation of
hotel room nights has come to represent a substantial majority of our gross
profit.  

Because
our domestic services include merchant  Name
Your Own Price       travel services, which are reported on a
 gross  basis, while both our domestic and international retail travel services
are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, revenue increases and decreases are
impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of  Name
Your Own Price       and retail travel services and, consequently,
gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth
in our business.  At present, we derive
substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:  

Commissions earned from the sale of
price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel
services;  

1    

Table of Contents   

Transaction gross profit and customer
processing fees from our  Name Your Own Price   hotel
room, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages
service;  

Transaction gross profit and customer
processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room service;  

Global distribution system ( GDS )
reservation booking fees related to both our  Name
Your Own Price   airline ticket, hotel room and rental car
services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and  

Other gross profit derived primarily from
selling advertising on our websites.  

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, we had gross profit of approximately
$1.26 billion comprised of  agency  gross profit,  merchant  gross profit, and
 other  gross profit.    Agency gross
profit is derived from travel related transactions where we are not the
merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third
parties. Agency gross profit,   which represented the
substantial majority of our total gross profit in 2009,   consisted of: (1) travel
commissions; (2) customer processing fees; and (3) GDS reservation booking
fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Merchant gross profit is derived from
transactions where we are the merchant of record and, among other things,
select suppliers and determine the price we will accept from the customer  .  Merchant gross profit consisted of:   (1) transaction
gross profit representing revenue charged to a customer, less the cost of
revenue amount charged by suppliers in connection with the reservations
provided through our  Name Your Own Price   hotel
room, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as through our price-disclosed
vacation packages services; (2) transaction gross profit representing the
amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in
connection with the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in
connection with the sale of  Name Your Own Price  
airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and merchant
price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS
reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Other revenues are derived primarily from
advertising on our websites.  

Priceline.com
was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted
into a Delaware corporation in July 1998. 
Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the
symbol  PCLN.   Our principal executive
offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854.  

The priceline.com Business
Model   

We
offer customers the ability   to make hotel reservations on a worldwide
basis primarily under the Booking.com and Agoda brands internationally and
primarily under the priceline.com brand in the United States.  In the United States, we also offer customers
the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets,
rental car days, vacations packages, destination services and cruises, through
both a traditional, price-disclosed  retail  manner, and through our
proprietary demand-collection system known as    Name Your
Own Price      .  These
services are made available over the Internet through websites that we own or
control, and are provided by major travel suppliers, including more than 78,000
hotel properties worldwide.  We believe
that the combination of our retail price-disclosed   model and our  Name Your Own Price       model allows us to provide a broad array of
options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams
of revenue.   

2    

Table of
Contents   

International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Services   .  We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel
service in Europe, Asia and elsewhere through our international operations,
which consist primarily of Booking.com
B.V., one of the world s leading Internet hotel reservation services, with more
than twenty offices worldwide, Booking.com Limited, a Cambridge,
England-based Internet hotel reservation distributor (together with Booking.com B.V.,  Booking.com ), and priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an Internet hotel distributor with operations primarily
in Singapore and Thailand ( Agoda ).  We
work with over 78,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 84
countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 32
languages.  For geographic related information, see Note 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Our
international business   the significant majority of which is currently
generated by Booking.com     represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings
(an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value,
inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our
customers) in the year ended December 31, 2009, and contributed
approximately 75% of our consolidated operating income during that period.  Given that our international business is
primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, revenue earned in connection
with the reservation of hotel room nights has come to represent the substantial
majority of our gross profit.  

United States: Name Your Own Price        Travel Services .  We have developed a unique pricing system
known as a  demand collection system  that uses the information sharing and
communications power of the Internet to create a different way of pricing
services.  We believe our services have
created a balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to accept
trade-offs in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to generate
incremental revenue by selling their services at below retail prices, provided
that they can do so without disrupting their existing distribution channels or
retail pricing structures.  Our demand
collection system allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to
pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which
participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to
the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer s offer and decide
whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the
consumer.  For most of these
transactions, we have discretion in supplier selection and are the merchant of
record in the transaction.  Consumers
agree to hold their offers open for a specified period of time to enable us to
determine whether we can or want to accept the offer.  Once fulfilled, offers generally cannot be
canceled   thereby making such purchases generally non-refundable.  This system uses the flexibility of buyers to
enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess
capacity.  We believe that our demand
collection system addresses limitations inherent in traditional seller-driven
pricing mechanisms in a manner that offers substantial benefits to both buyers
and sellers.  We believe that the
principal advantages of our system include the following:  

Cost
Savings   .  Our  Name Your Own Price       demand collection system allows consumers to
save money in a simple and compelling way. 
Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands, service features
and/or sellers in return for prices that are generally lower than those that
can be obtained at that time through traditional retail distribution channels.  

Incremental
Revenue for Sellers   .  Sellers use
our  Name Your Own Price       demand collection system as a revenue
management tool to generate incremental revenue without disrupting their
existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We require  

3    

Table of
Contents   

consumers to be flexible with respect to brands and service
features.  As a result, our  Name Your Own Price       system does not reveal sellers  brands to
customers prior to the consummation of a transaction, thereby protecting their
brand integrity.  This shielding of brand
identity and price enables sellers to sell services at discounted prices
without cannibalizing their own retail sales by publicly announcing discount
prices and without competing against their own distributors.  

Proprietary
Seller Networks   .  We have
assembled proprietary networks of industry leading sellers that represent high
quality brands.  By establishing
attractive networks of seller participants with reputations for quality, scale
and national presence, we believe that we foster increased participation by
both buyers and sellers.  

We
often refer to services offered through our  Name
Your Own Price       service as  opaque  services because all
aspects of the travel service are not visible to the consumer before making an
offer.  

United States: Retail Travel Services   .  In the United States, we offer customers the
ability to purchase price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental car days, airline
tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  In these transactions, the customer typically
selects airline flights, hotel reservations, rental car or other travel
itineraries from an array of results produced in response to the customer s
request.  These results usually include
the identity of the travel supplier, the exact price   of the itinerary, and other
details relating to the itineraries.  In
some circumstances, the customer pays us at the time of reservation, and in
other circumstances, the customer pays the travel supplier directly at the time
of travel.  

The priceline.com Strategy   

The
online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth
as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive
online channels.  Priceline.com has been
a leader in the hotel reservation market internationally and in the deep
discount segment of this market in the United States.  Our strategy is to continue to participate
broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets.  

Become the
Leading Worldwide Online Hotel Reservation Service   .  The size of the travel market outside of the
United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet penetration rates and
e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the
United States.  However, international
consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online
travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue
to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our
revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2009,
our international business   the significant majority of which is currently
generated by Booking.com   represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings,
and contributed approximately 75% of our consolidated operating income during
that period.  We expect that our
international operations will represent a growing percentage of our total gross
bookings and operating income (before taking into account the offsetting
impacts of foreign exchange, if any) over the long term.  Because of what we believe to be superior
growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel, we
intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues
represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel
demand.  

We
believe that the positioning of our Booking.com hotel reservation service gives
us a foothold into a broader international market.  We intend to use Agoda, the online hotel
distributor with operations primarily in Singapore and Thailand, which we
acquired in 2007, to further develop our operations throughout Asia, where
Internet penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing at a substantially
greater pace than in the United States over the last several years.  We have begun, and intend to continue,
development of the means to share hotel availability among our brands, which we
believe will allow us to monetize demand across international markets.  In addition, from time to time we explore
strategic transactions and acquisitions that, among other things, allow us to
provide our services to new markets.  We
believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel supply and
customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and
Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our service
internationally and become the leading worldwide online hotel reservation
service.  

4    

Table of
Contents   

Continue to
be One of the Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious
Leisure Travelers   .  Our  Name Your Own Price       demand collection system in the United States
allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility
about brands, service features and/or sellers in return for prices that are lower
than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail
distribution channels.  We have expended
significant resources to allow us to introduce price-disclosed retail services
in the United States to our consumers to compliment the  Name Your Own Price       service. 
We believe that by offering a  one-stop-shopping  solution to our
customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are
prepared to accept the unique restrictions of our  Name Your Own Price       service in exchange for receiving significant
savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less
price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their
travel itinerary prior to purchasing.  In
June 2007, we eliminated booking fees on price-disclosed retail airline
tickets as part of our strategy to provide value to our customers, and in 2008,
we reduced price-disclosed hotel booking fees and eliminated priceline.com hotel
change fees.  

We
intend to enhance our service offerings continually, particularly our retail
offerings, by adding competitive functionality, adding travel selection at
competitive pricing, adding and improving the content and merchandising on our
website as well as  cross-sell  opportunities (for example, offering a hotel
customer the opportunity to add a rental car reservation to the transaction) to
maximize customer conversion.  

Competitive
functionality:    We continue to expend significant resources to
remain competitive in terms of the features and functionality we offer our
customers.  For example, since launching
our domestic retail air service, we added the ability to search for flexible
dates or alternative airports, book one-way and multi-destination itineraries
and easily make modifications to search criteria.  In addition, we offer a personal experience,
where individualized content, such as special deals or favorite hotels, can be
presented based upon preferences set by the customer or a customer s previous
activity on one of our sites. In 2009, we launched the priceline Hotel
Negotiator iPhone application, which allows travelers to book a  Name Your Own Price       or price-disclosed hotel room reservations
over the iphone.  

Competitive
selection and pricing:    We believe that having a wide selection of
travel options at competitive pricing is critical to our success.  For example, we have eliminated booking fees
on price-disclosed retail airline tickets, reduced price-disclosed hotel
booking fees and eliminated hotel change fees. 
We have also added thousands of additional hotels to our domestic and
international hotel services. In addition, we have renewed or entered into new
agreements with several of our major airline and hotel suppliers, which we
believe has improved our access to a better selection of travel alternatives
and pricing.  

Content
and merchandising:    As part of our evolution to a  one-stop-shopping 
website, we have added thousands of pages of content to allow customers to
research destinations and hotel properties before booking a reservation.  We offer property descriptions, maps, images,
and user reviews whereby our customers can benefit from the experiences and
opinions of other customers.  In the
United States, we offer  PriceBreakers  sm  ,  which is a presentation of selected travel itineraries
at discounted prices that is updated frequently.  In 2009, we introduced a
priceline.com-branded credit card that allows customers to earn points based on
purchases, including those made on our website. 
We intend to continue to improve our content and merchandising with more
comprehensive descriptions, more and higher quality images, and more user
reviews, which we believe will improve conversion of users shopping on our
website.  

5    

Table of
Contents   

Cross-sell opportunities   : We also
cross-sell different travel components to maximize the revenue we generate from
each customer in the United States.  We
have developed and implemented functionality that allows customers to  add-on 
travel components to their selection, both during the shopping experience and
at time of purchase.  For example,
customers can add a rental car reservation to their air or hotel reservation,
or a hotel reservation to their air reservation.  Customers can also add destination related
services such as shuttles, tours and activities.  Additionally, we cross-sell opaque services
on our retail path and retail services on our opaque path.  For example, an unsuccessful opaque air
customer may be offered a price-disclosed alternative, while a retail hotel
shopper may be offered the  Name Your Own
Price           alternative for greater
savings.  In addition, personalized
cross-sell offers can appear on the priceline.com homepage when a customer
has an upcoming trip.  We intend to
further enhance these cross-sell opportunities across all of our services.  

We
strive to be the preferred discount distribution channel in the United States
for airlines, hotels and rental car companies. 
Our  Name Your Own Price       service protects supplier brand and published
pricing and our packages and other merchandising provide access to the brand
neutral leisure traveler at attractive distribution costs.  

Service Offerings   International   

Retail Hotels.       We offer a retail,
price-disclosed hotel service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and
Agoda brands.  We   work with over 78,000 chain-owned and independently owned hotels in 84 countries
offering hotel reservations on various websites and in 32 languages.  Hotels participate in Booking.com, which
operates under an agency model, and Agoda, which operates primarily under a
merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranet.  Hotels may also participate in Agoda via
consolidator relationships.  

Service Offerings   United States   

Name Your Own Price             Hotels   .  Through our  Name
Your Own Price           hotel room reservation
service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially
all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as well
as several important real estate investment trusts and independent property
owners participate in our  Name Your Own
Price       service. 
Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with
related rules in a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not
available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount
distributors who sell to the public, however, hotel participants may make
similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under
other arrangements.  

To
make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in
which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to check in and check out, (3) the  class  of service (1, 2, 2 , 3,
3 , 4, 5-star or  resort ), (4) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (5) the customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to
stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation
that cannot be refunded or changed.  The
target market for our  Name Your Own Price       hotel room reservation service is the leisure
travel market.  

Retail Hotels.     We also operate a price-disclosed hotel
service in the United States that enables our customers to   select the exact
hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to
booking.  

6    

Table of Contents   

Name Your Own Price             Rental Cars   .  Our  Name
Your Own Price       rental car service is currently available in
substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car
companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car
program.  Consumers can access our
website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car
they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price
they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine
whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer s offer is accepted, we will
immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer s credit card and
notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental
car.  

Retail Rental Cars.     We also offer a price-disclosed rental car
service   on www.priceline.com that enables our customers   in the United
States   to choose between price-disclosed or  Name
Your Own Price       rental cars. 
Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the  agency 
model,   under which we earn a commission upon rental car return, and   accommodates
one-way and off-airport reservations  .    As with our retail airline
ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations booked in a
retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with   our    Name
Your Own Price       service. 
Customers can select the exact car they want to book and the price of
the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase.  

Name Your Own Price             Airline
Tickets   .  There are a total of 10
domestic airlines and 20 international airlines participating in our  Name Your Own Price           airline ticket service.  

Our
 Name Your Own Price       airline ticket service operates in a manner
similar to our  Name Your Own Price       hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the
origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer
wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay,
and (4) the customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree
to:  

fly on any one
of our participating airline partners; 

leave at any
time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of
departure and return; 

purchase only
round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and
return; 

accept at least
one stop or connection; 

receive no
frequent flier miles or upgrades; and 

accept tickets
that cannot be refunded or changed. 

If
a customer s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably
close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy
the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing
certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being
accepted.  For example, in some cases we
disclose to the customer that agreeing to fly into an alternate airport would
increase the chances of his or her offer being accepted.  In other cases, we inform the customer that
increasing his or her offer by a certain amount would increase the chances of
it being accepted.  We may also offer a
customer the opportunity to purchase a price-disclosed retail airline ticket.  

Retail Airline Tickets.     We also offer   our customers in the United
States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and
with disclosed itineraries.  The airline
sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for
the transaction.  These airline tickets
do not have the restrictions associated with our    Name Your
Own Price       service. 
For example, in addition to having fully  

7    

Table of Contents   

disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable
and cancellable for a fee.  In June 2007,
we eliminated booking fees we had previously charged on the sale of published
price retail airline tickets.  

With
respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the
combination of our  Name Your Own Price         model and the retail model
allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers,
while providing us with diverse streams of revenue.  

Vacation Packages   .  Our vacation package service allows consumers
  in the United States   to purchase packages consisting of airfare,
hotel and rental car components. 
Consumers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to
reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline
ticket for the air component of their package. 
Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers
cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website.  

Destination Services   .  We currently offer customers   in the United
States   the opportunity to purchase destination services such as parking, event
tickets, ground transfers, tours and other services available at their travel
destinations.  This service is offered to
consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel, rental car and vacation
reservation, and also as a standalone service.  

Cruises   .  We
also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through World Travel Holdings, Inc.
( WTH ), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumers   in the United
States   to search for and compare cruise pricing and availability information
from 20 cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center
by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from WTH on successful
cruise bookings.  

Travel Insurance   .  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package
customers in the United States an optional travel insurance package that
provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip
interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage,
property and travel documents.  We also offer our rental car customer in
the United States the opportunity to purchase collision damage waiver
insurance.  The travel insurance is
arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc.
and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.
 We retain a fee for every optional insurance package purchased by our
customers.  

While
we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we
may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance
the travel experience of our customers.  

Marketing and Brand
Awareness   

Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda have established widely used and
recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion
campaigns.  During 2009, our total online
advertising expenses were approximately $365.4 million, a substantial portion
of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing.  We also invested
approximately $36.3 million in priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the
United States.  We intend to continue a
marketing strategy to promote brand awareness and the concept that consumers
can save money using our services. 
Underlying our marketing strategy is our belief that our target market
is all consumers, not just Internet-savvy consumers.  We intend to continue to promote the
Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands aggressively throughout 2010.  

As
our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our
results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our
advertising expense.  Specifically,
because our international operations utilize Internet search engines and online
affiliate marketing, principally through the purchase of travel-related
keywords, as principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our  

8    

Table of Contents   

online
advertising expense has increased significantly since our acquisition of those
companies, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2010.  

Competition   

We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we
offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and
current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In
addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete may have
significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do.  We may not be able to effectively compete
with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of
which has larger gross travel bookings than we do and may have access to
significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.  

We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with
respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these
competitors include, but are not limited to:  

Internet travel services
such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia, and
Venere, an Italian-based agency hotel reservation service provider that was
acquired by Expedia in the third quarter of 2008; Travelocity and
lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets,
ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz
Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers,
octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, Ctrip, Rakuten
and Wotif; 

travel suppliers such as
airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their
own branded websites to which they drive business; 

large online portal and
search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including
Bing Travel) and AOL (including AOL Travel); 

traditional travel
agencies, wholesalers and tour operators; 

online travel search sites
such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com and SideStep.com (each
sometimes referred to as  meta-search  sites) and travel research sites that
have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com;
and 

operators of travel
industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre. 

Certain of our major competitors
have matched our elimination and/or reduction of processing fees associated
with some of our travel services.  In
June 2007, we eliminated processing fees for our price-disclosed airline ticket
service, and in April 2008, we reduced processing fees for our domestic
price-disclosed merchant hotel room service. 
As a result, since those dates, we had a pricing advantage against other
major online travel agents with respect to these travel services.  Starting in March 2009, Expedia also eliminated
air booking fees.  Later in March 2009,
Travelocity matched the Expedia change and in April 2009, Orbitz followed.  As a result, we no longer have the price
advantage that we have had against our major competitors on price-disclosed
airline tickets since June 2007. 
Similarly, in April 2009, each of Expedia and Orbitz reduced booking
fees on hotel room reservations, and we therefore no longer have a price
advantage over those companies on price-disclosed merchant hotel room reservations.  In addition, in May 2009, Orbitz announced a
price guarantee program under which a customer who books a prepaid hotel stay
will receive money back from Orbitz if another Orbitz customer books the exact
same stay in terms of room type, travel dates and number of travelers.  In addition, in October 2009, Travelocity
announced the waiver of its cancellation and change fees for hotel and vacation
packages, as well as an expanded hotel guarantee, under which consumers who
book a hotel room and then find a lower published rate for the same room
anytime before the day of check-in are eligible to receive a refund of the
difference.  Our business may be
adversely impacted as a result of no longer having a price advantage over our
direct competitors in the U.S., as seen in the fourth quarter 2009, where
domestic gross bookings growth decelerated from the previous quarter, and we
may be adversely impacted by future promotional initiatives by our competitors.  

9    

Table of Contents   

In
addition, in March 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed
hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount
because, similar to our  Name Your Own Price      hotel booking service, the name
of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase.  At this point, the
number of hotels available through Travelocity s opaque hotel service is
limited.  However, Travelocity has experience
with offering opaque price-disclosed hotel room reservations in Europe through
its site, lastminute.com, and it is likely that it will use such experience to
grow the number of opaque hotel room reservations it makes available.  If Travelocity is successful in growing its
opaque hotel service, our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could
decrease.  In addition, we would have to compete with Travelocity for
access to hotel room supply and there is no guarantee that we would be able to
maintain successfully the access to opaque hotel supply which we currently
have.  If Travelocity s opaque hotel service is successful, it may try to
offer opaque airline tickets and/or rental cars, each of which would expose us
to similar risks as the opaque hotel service. 

Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including
suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand
to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge
additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online
channel other than their own website. 
Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively
through their own websites.  Suppliers
who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and,
in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.  

Large, established Internet
search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online
commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating   and intend to further
create   inroads into online travel.  For
example, Google recently launched  Google City Tours ,
an application that offers multi-day travel itineraries in destinations around
the world, and Microsoft recently launched  Bing Travel , a
 meta-search  site, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online
and predicts the best time to purchase them. 
 Meta-search  sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel
search results for the searcher s specific itinerary across supplier, travel
agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for
customers.  These initiatives, among
others, illustrate Google s and Bing s clear intention to more directly appeal
to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel results,
including specific information for travelers  own itineraries, which could lead
to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of Google s or Bing s traffic or
may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own
websites.  If Google, as the single
largest search engine in the world, or Bing or other leading search engines
refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop
in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from
supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites
such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.  

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:  

marketing and promotional campaigns;  

attracting traffic to their websites;  

attracting and retaining key employees;  

securing vendors and supply; and  

website and systems development.  

10    

Table of Contents   

Increased competition could result in reduced
operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brand. There can be
no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and
future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   See   Risk Factors   Intense competition could reduce our market share and
harm our financial performance .   

Operations and Technology   

Our business is supported by
multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on
scalability, performance and reliability. 
The platforms are largely independent among priceline com, Booking.com
and Agoda. The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools
within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP,
..NET and Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle MySQL and Microsoft
SQL-server relational database systems. 
These internal platforms were designed to include open application
protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries
in which we operate.  These include large
global systems, such as airline and hotel room reservation systems and
financial service providers, as well as individual suppliers, such as
individual hotels.  Our Internet servers
utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions,
as appropriate.  

The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our
international operations are primarily hosted at Equinix Europe Ltd. in London,
England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus in the Netherlands and
NTT in Hong Kong. Each location has backup generators and infrastructure
typical of hosted data centers.  

Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are
hosted at SAVVIS in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides communication
links, as well as 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  SAVVIS has its own generator and multiple
back-up systems in Jersey City.  We also
maintain a second web hosting facility at AT T in New York City.  Our network operations center monitors both
web hosting facilities and is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut
headquarters.  All three facilities have
a continuous power supply system, generators and redundant servers.  If SAVVIS were unable, for any reason, to
support our primary web hosting facility, we would need to activate our
secondary site at AT T.  

We outsource most of our domestic call center and customer service
functions, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer
capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers.  

Intellectual Property   

We currently hold twenty issued United States patents, Nos. 5,794,207;
5,897,620; 6,085,169; 6,108,639; 6,134,534; 6,240,396; 6,332,129; 6,345,090;
6,356,878; 6,418,415; 6,466,919; 6,484,153; 6,510,418; 6,553,346; 6,993,503;
7,203,660; 7,188,176; 7,333,941; 7,386,508; 7,472,074 and over twenty pending
United States and foreign patent applications. 
All of our issued United States patents expire between September 4,
2016 and March 22, 2025.  We file
additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.  

While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent
applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:  

a
third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us
from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a
license to use those features; 

our
operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third
parties; 

any
patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties; 

11    

Table of Contents   

the
pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; 

competitors
or potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that
are not covered by our patents or patent applications; 

because
of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services,
our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from
utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more
categories; 

new
prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate
an issued patent; or 

legislative
or judicial action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and
validity of any of our patent rights. 

There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called
 business method  patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark
Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable
to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a
direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if
any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, t here has been recent discussion in various
federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called
 business method  patents. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in a
recent order in    In re Bilski   , has questioned whether it
should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called business
method patents in    State Street Bank v. Signature Financial   .  
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will
have on our issued patents or pending patent applications.  See   Risk Factors   We face
risks related to our intellectual property .  

We
hold the exclusive rights to the trade names and service marks PRICELINE      and PRICELINE.COM         in the U.S. as well as
in many foreign countries.  We own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos.
2,481,750; 2,272,659; 2,594,582 for PRICELINE     , and 2,481,752; 2,594,592; and 2,481,112 for
PRICELINE.COM     , including all
attendant goodwill.  We also own U.S. Service Mark Registrations Nos.
2,647,673 for NAME YOUR OWN PRICE    2,481,751 for PRICELINEMORTGAGE     , 3,357,458 for  PRICELINE EUROPE      and
others. In addition, through our European subsidiary Booking.com BV, we
hold the registered service mark BOOKINGS in the European Union ( EU )
(Registrations Nos. 3413846 and 3413952); the Netherlands (Benelux
Registrations Nos. 762051 and 762054); and France (French Registration No. 43276223.
Also held by priceline through Booking.com BV are French Registration No. 43276225
for BOOKING; EU Reg. No. 3859618 for ACTIVE HOTELS; and common law service mark rights in
BOOKING.COM in the United States.  

We
aggressively monitor, protect and enforce our copyrights, service marks,
trademarks, trade dress, domain names and trade secrets on an ongoing basis
through a combination of laws and contractual restrictions, such as
confidentiality agreements.  For example, we endeavor to register our
trademarks and service marks in the United States and internationally,
currently holding over one-hundred-seventy-five service mark registrations
worldwide.  However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade
secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services
are or may be made available online, regardless of our continuous efforts to
police and register our marks.  See,   Risk
Factors  - We face risks related to our intellectual property .   

We
currently own hundreds of Internet domain names in various top level domains,
particularly for purposes of deterring service mark infringement.  Domain
names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory bodies such as the World
Intellectual Property Organization.  The relationship between trademark
and unfair competition laws and domain name registration is evolving.  The
Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act in the U.S. and the Uniform Domain
Name Dispute Resolution Policy of the  

12    

Table of Contents   

Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers have both significantly enhanced
our  ability to deter the infringing incorporation
of trademarks into domain names by third parties and to assert our
registrations against them.  We actively pursue significant infringers as
appropriate, including cybersquatters and typosquatters who misappropriate our
service marks and misspellings thereof as domain names for commercial purposes,
in order to maintain our famous marks and prevent the dilution of their
distinctiveness.  See,   Risk Factors  
We face risks related to our intellectual property .   

Governmental Regulation   

The
services we provide are subject to various federal, state and local
regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the
offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register
as a  seller of travel.   In addition,
our services may be subject to various state and local taxing regulations.  See   Risk Factors     Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes  .  

We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require
protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data, both in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to
legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  Such government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  

All
of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and
regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices.  

We
are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online
commerce.  Presently, there are
relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due
to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is
possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet
or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as
online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content
and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights
and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws
governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual
property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is developing,
but any such new legislation could have significant implications on how we
conduct online business. In addition, some states may require us to qualify in
that state to do business as a foreign corporation because our service is
available in that state over the Internet. Although we are qualified to do
business in a number of states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain
states, or a determination that we are required to qualify in additional
states, could subject us to taxes and penalties.  See    Risk  Factors   Regulatory and legal uncertainties
could harm our business,   and 
 Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes .   

Our
international operations are subject to various foreign regulations and
governing bodies that might limit their services. They may be affected by
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade
barriers in connection with online commerce. Any failure by our international
operations to comply may have an adverse effect on our business.  

Seasonality   

Our
 Name Your Own Price       services are non-refundable in nature, and
accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is
generated.  However, we recognize revenue
generated from our retail hotel services, including our international
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail
hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve
their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future
quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial majority
of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the
quarter in which bookings are generated.  

13    

Table of Contents   

Therefore, as our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect
our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal
factors.  

Employees   

As of January 31, 2010,
we employed approximately 2,010 full-time employees, of which 493 are based in
the United States and 1,517 are based in our international offices. We also
retain independent contractors to support our customer service and system
support functions.  

We
have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by
any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to
be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  

The
priceline.com Websites   

We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com,
www.priceline.com and www.agoda.com, among others.  We are not including the information
contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We
make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission .  These reports and other
information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. 
Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may
be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the www.priceline.com
website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Ethics will be
disclosed on that website. 

14    

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.  Risk Factors      

The following risk factors and other
information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also
impair our business operations.  If any
of the following risks occur, our business, financial     condition, operating results
and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  

Our      international     operations face risks
related to their growth rate and expansion.   

Throughout 2007, 2008 and
2009, our international operations
experienced significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings (an
operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive
of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers) and
hotel room night reservations.  This
growth rate has contributed significantly to our growth in revenue, gross
profit and earnings per share.  Over
time, our international operations will experience a decline in their growth
rate as the absolute level of their gross bookings and unit sales grow larger.  For example, year-to-date in 2010, we have
seen a deceleration in year-over-year growth rates for hotel room night
reservations as compared to growth rates in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Other factors may also slow the growth rates
of our international business,
including, for example, the impact of the
worldwide recession, any strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the
Euro, declines in hotel average daily rates ( ADRs ), further increases in
cancellations, travel market conditions and the competitiveness of the
market.  A decline in our international operations  growth rate
could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share
growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price.  

The strategy of our  international operations involves rapid
expansion into countries in Europe, including eastern Europe, Asia, North
America and South America and elsewhere, many of which have different customs,
different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different
legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political
stability.  In addition, compliance with
foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time
and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially
adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. 
If our international operations are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other countries, our
business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected. 

We are
dependent on the leisure travel industry and certain travel suppliers.   

Our financial prospects are
significantly dependent upon our sale of leisure travel services.  Leisure travel, including the sale of hotel
room  reservations and leisure airline tickets, is dependent on
personal discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of leisure travel
services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions.  Accordingly, the current worldwide recession
has led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for our services and an increase
in the number of customers who cancel existing travel reservations with
us.  In addition, unforeseen events
beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health
concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu),
avian bird flu and SARS, political instability,
regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or
surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents and unusual
weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or
earthquakes, also may adversely affect the leisure travel industry and our
business and results of operations.  For
example, in 2008, civil unrest in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda
business, negatively impacted booking volumes at the time, and future civil or
political unrest would further disrupt Agoda s business.  In addition, an outbreak of
Influenza H1N1 could disrupt our workforce or the workforces of suppliers or
third-party service providers upon which we rely.  Further, work
stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially
adversely affect the airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

During the year ended December 31,
2009,  Name Your Own Price      hotel room night reservations from our five largest
hotel suppliers accounted for approximately 68.5% of total  Name Your Own Price     hotel room night reservations, and sales of airline
tickets from our five largest and two largest airline 

15    

Table
of Contents   

suppliers accounted for approximately 76.7% and 35.0%
of total airline tickets sold, respectively. As a result, we are currently
substantially dependent upon the continued participation of these suppliers in
our system in order to maintain and continue to grow our total gross profit.  

Our arrangements with the
hotel, airline and rental car suppliers that participate in our system   either
 Name Your Own Price      or price-disclosed service   generally do not
require them to provide any specific quantity of hotel room reservations, airline tickets or rental cars, or to make rooms, tickets or cars
available for any particular route, in any geographic area or at any particular
price.  During the course of our
business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the
nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant
reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in
our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. 

Since
the onset of the worldwide recession, the hotel industry has experienced a
significant decrease in occupancy rates and ADRs, and an increase in
reservation cancellation rates.  While
lower occupancy rates have historically resulted in hotel suppliers increasing
their distribution of hotel room reservations through third-party
intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for hotel transactions changes
proportionately with room price, and therefore, lower ADRs generally have a
negative effect on our hotel business and a negative effect on our gross
profit.  

In addition, certain hotels
have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries
on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to
distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States.  Many hotels distribute room  reservations through their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates
for merchant rate hotel room reservations sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the
margin available to us.  While our
merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers
provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to
require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise,
it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition. 

With respect to our airline
suppliers, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from
full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount
fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue.  Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest,
have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party
intermediaries.  In addition, certain
airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets
through opaque channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available
price on their own website.  Certain
airlines have also significantly reduced their domestic capacity, which reduces
the number of airline tickets available to our customers.  Furthermore, we have recently observed a
year-over-year decline in passenger traffic and airfares across the airline
industry, which we believe is principally due to the worldwide recession.   Decreases in capacity and lower traveler demand negatively impact our
domestic air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our domestic
hotel and rental car businesses, and could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  Decreased airfares can
adversely 

16    

Table
of Contents   

impact our  Name Your Own Price      airline ticket sales by reducing the amount of
absolute dollar savings as compared to retail airline tickets. 

We could be adversely
affected by changes in the airline industry, and, in many cases, we will have
no control over such changes or their timing. 
Recently, there has been an emerging prospect of domestic airline
industry consolidation, as evidenced by the recent merger between Delta Air
Lines and Northwest Airlines.  If one of
our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by,
another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or
that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may
elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than
the previous supplier.  For example, in September 2005,
US Airways and America West merged.  US
Airways was a meaningful participant in our  Name
Your Own Price      system, but America
West participated on a very limited basis. 
The resulting entity participates in our  Name Your Own Price     system, but at
much lower levels than US Airways  historical participation. 

In addition, in the event
that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares
bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy,
and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely
affected.  For example, in April 2008,
Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an
increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those
airlines.  To the extent major U.S.
airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy or cease operations,
they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights.  Our policy in such event is to direct
customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a
remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of  Name Your Own Price      airline tickets to our customers, however, we
could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card
chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our
operations and financial results. In addition, because  Name Your Own Price     customers do
not choose their airlines, hotels or rental car companies, the bankruptcy of a
major airline, hotel or rental car company, or even the possibility of such a
bankruptcy, could discourage customers from using our  Name Your Own Price     system to book
travel. 

The loss of any major
airline participant in our  Name Your Own
Price      system could result
in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the  Name Your Own Price     system, which
would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  In addition, fewer
independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are unable to divert
sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected. 

In addition, given the
concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our
competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with
tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven
commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services.  

United
Airlines recently began requiring certain travel agents to cease using United s
merchant processing system for retail credit card transactions.  When accepting credit cards for payment, such
agents will have to use their own merchant accounts and settle with United with
cash.  By requiring such agents to act as
merchant of record, United passes the credit card processing costs onto the
travel agent.  United has not informed us
that we must cease using   United s
merchant processing system for credit card transactions, however, if United or
another airline changes its policy with respect to us and requires us to act as
merchant of record for retail airline ticket transactions, we will incur
additional credit card processing costs and increased chargeback activity and
expense, including chargeback expense in connection with the bankruptcy of any
such airline.  

If
one of our major rental car suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is
acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the
priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the
surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate
at lower  

17    

Table of Contents   

levels
than the previous supplier.  The loss of any rental car supplier
participant in our  Name Your Own Price       system could result in other rental car
suppliers electing to terminate or reduce their participation in the  Name Your Own Price       system, which would negatively impact our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  Furthermore,
many major rental car companies are highly leveraged and the worldwide
recession creates the potential for severe financial difficulty, including
without limitation, the inability of a rental car company to refinance its
debt, restructure its operations or emerge from a bankruptcy, any of which
could lead to a reduction in rental car supply made available to us.  In addition, fewer independent suppliers
reduces opacity and competition among suppliers.  In such event, if we are
unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations
and financial condition may be adversely affected.  

In
addition, recent decreases in rental car fleets have led to increases in retail
rental car rates.   Higher retail rental
car rates negatively impact demand for our retail rental car service, while
decreases in rental car availability negatively impact our  Name Your
Own Price       rental car service. In January 2010, Toyota
recalled over 8 million vehicles due to faulty accelerator pedals, leading to
further strain on rental car companies  fleets and increased retail rental car
rates.  If the industry is faced with a
shortage of vehicles, rental car companies may reduce the number of car
reservations they distribute through our service or increase the negotiated
rates at which they are willing to provide car reservations.  In addition, rental car companies rely on
auto manufacturers to provide new vehicles for their fleet.  Rental car
companies have also historically relied on auto manufacturers and the wholesale
used car market to dispose of their fleets of cars.  The worldwide
recession has led to questions about the long term viability of the major U.S.
auto manufacturers and is partially responsible for a change in the
arrangements between rental car companies and automobile manufacturers.  Where manufacturers have historically
supplied cars to rental car companies under a lease or another arrangement
whereby the manufacturer would buy the car back when it is taken out of the
fleet, manufacturers have begun to require the rental car companies purchase
the cars for their fleets, which shifts the burden of risk of selling the car
to the rental car company.  Tight credit
markets negatively affect the used car market, making it difficult for auto
manufacturers and rental car suppliers to dispose of their fleets.  If the
rental car industry is faced with excess supply, rental car companies may lower
retail rental car rates, which could be beneficial to our retail rental car
business, but detrimental to our  Name Your
Own Price       business. 
Because rental car days are typically less expensive than airline tickets
or hotel room night reservations, a reduction in retail rental car rates has a
disproportionately adverse effect on sales of  Name
Your Own Price       rental car days since customers
may be less likely to accept the trade-offs associated with that service.  Any disruption in the supply of vehicles or
the ability to dispose of vehicles by car rental companies could impact their
ability to match their fleet supply with demand, which could adversely impact
our business.  

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates.    

As a result of the growth
of our  international operations, we are conducting a significant portion of our business outside
the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars.  As a result, we face exposure to adverse
movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated
from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into
U.S. Dollars upon consolidation.  For
example, our international
operations contributed approximately $852.0 million to our revenues for the
year ended December 31, 2009, which compares to $619.8 million for the
same period in 2008, respectively. 
Revenue attributable to our international operations increased, on a
local currency basis, by approximately 46% in the year ended December 31,
2009, compared to the same period in 2008. 

18    

Table of Contents   

Recently, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened against
the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. In general, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens
against the local currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated
balances will result in decreased net assets, gross bookings, revenues,
operating expenses, and net income.  

In early 2010, concern over
excessive levels of national debt in Greece and certain other European Union
countries has caused significant devaluation of the Euro relative to other
currencies, such as the U.S. Dollar. 
Investors have expressed concern that failure on the part of Greece and
certain other European Union countries to alleviate their budget deficits could
undermine the Euro and destabilize European debt markets.  Destabilization of the European economy, and
particularly the Euro, could lead to a decrease in consumer confidence, which
could cause reductions in discretionary spending on services such as leisure
travel.  Furthermore, as mentioned above,
if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against the Euro, the translation of our
Euro-denominated balances will result in decreased net assets, gross bookings,
revenues, operating expenses, and net income.  

Intense competition could reduce our market share
and harm our financial performance.    

We compete with both online
and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services
we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch
new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with
industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of
which has larger gross travel bookings than we do and may have access to
significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do.  

We currently or potentially
compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With
respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited
to:  

Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are
owned by Expedia, and Venere, an Italian-based agency hotel reservation service
provider that was acquired by Expedia in the third quarter of 2008; Travelocity
and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com,
Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by
Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers,
octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, Ctrip, Rakuten
and Wotif;  

travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car
companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive
business;  

large online portal and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including
Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel) and AOL (including AOL Travel);  

traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;  

online travel search sites such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com
and SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as  meta-search  sites) and travel
research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo
and Cheapflights.com; and  

operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo,
Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.  

Certain
of our major competitors have matched our elimination and/or reduction of
processing fees associated with some of our travel services.  In June 2007, we eliminated processing
fees for our price-disclosed airline ticket service, and in April 2008, we
reduced processing fees for our domestic price-disclosed merchant hotel room
service.  As a result, since those dates,
we had a pricing advantage against other major online travel agents with
respect to these travel services. 
Starting in March 2009, Expedia also eliminated air booking
fees.  Later in March 2009,
Travelocity matched the Expedia change and in April 2009, Orbitz
followed.  As a result, we no longer have
the price advantage that we have had against our major competitors on
price-disclosed airline tickets since June 2007.  Similarly, in April 2009, each of
Expedia and Orbitz reduced booking fees on hotel room reservations, and we therefore no longer have a price advantage over
those companies on price-disclosed merchant hotel room reservations.  In addition, in May 2009, Orbitz
announced a price guarantee program under which a customer who books a prepaid
hotel stay will receive money back from Orbitz if another Orbitz customer books
the exact same stay in terms of room type, travel dates and number of
travelers.  In addition, in October 2009,
Travelocity announced the waiver of its cancellation and change fees for hotel
and vacation packages, as well as an expanded hotel guarantee, under which
consumers who book a hotel room and then find a lower published rate for the same
room anytime before the day of check-in are eligible to receive a refund of the
difference.  Our business may be
adversely impacted as a result of no longer having a price advantage over our
direct competitors in the U.S., as seen in the fourth quarter 2009, where
domestic gross bookings growth decelerated from the previous quarter, and we
may be adversely impacted by future promotional initiatives by our competitors.  

19    

Table of Contents   

In
addition, in March 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed
hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount
because, similar to our  Name Your Own Price       hotel booking service, the name of the hotel
is not disclosed until after purchase.  At this point, the number of
hotels available through Travelocity s opaque hotel service is limited.  However, Travelocity has experience with
offering opaque price-disclosed hotel room reservations in Europe through its
site, lastminute.com, and it is likely that it will use such experience to grow
the number of opaque hotel room reservations it makes available.  If
Travelocity is successful in growing its opaque hotel service, our share of the
discount hotel market in the U.S. could decrease.  In addition, we would
have to compete with Travelocity for access to hotel room supply and there is
no guarantee that we would be able to maintain successfully the access to
opaque hotel supply which we currently have.  If Travelocity s opaque
hotel service is successful, it may try to offer opaque airline tickets and/or
rental cars, each of which would expose us to similar risks as the opaque hotel
service.  

Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including
suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand
to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge
additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online
channel other than their own website. 
Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively
through their own websites.  Suppliers
who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and,
in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or
loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers
than models like ours.  

Large,
established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in
developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating   and
intend to further create   inroads into online travel.  For example, Google recently launched  Google City Tours , an application that offers multi-day
travel itineraries in destinations around the world, and Microsoft recently
launched  Bing Travel , a  meta-search  site, which
searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time
to purchase them.   Meta-search  sites
leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the
searcher s specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites
and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers.  These initiatives, among others, illustrate
Google s and Bing s clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers
by showing consumers more detailed travel results, including specific
information for travelers  own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or
others gaining a larger share of Google s or Bing s traffic or may ultimately
lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites.  If Google, as the single largest search
engine in the world, or Bing or other leading search engines refer significant
traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it
could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites
and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

Many of our current and
potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these
competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can.
In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly
greater resources to:  

marketing and promotional campaigns;  

attracting traffic to their websites;  

attracting and retaining key employees;  

securing vendors and supply; and  

website and systems development.  

20    

Table of Contents   

Increased competition could
result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our
brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  

Adverse
application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our
business and results of operation.   

A number of jurisdictions
have initiated lawsuits against on-line travel companies, including us, related
to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e.,
state and local sales tax).  In addition,
a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed
tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy
and other taxes.  Please see Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and
proceedings.  Additional state and local
jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things,
hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could
seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both.  

In connection with some
hotel occupancy tax audits and assessments, we may be required to pay any
assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to
contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in judicial
proceedings.  This requirement is
commonly referred to as  pay to play  or  pay first.   Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an
admission that we believe that we are subject to such taxes and, even if such
payments are made, we intend to continue to assert our position vigorously.  

Litigation is subject to
uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future
cases and proceedings.  For example, in October 2009,
a jury in a San Antonio class action found that we and the other online travel
companies that are defendants in the lawsuit  control  hotels for purposes of
the local hotel occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject
to the requirements of those ordinances. 
An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation is likely to
encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other
regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an
unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result
in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among
other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and
costs.  There have been, and will continue
to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include  pay to play  payments,
associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or
proceedings.  An adverse
outcome in one or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse
effect on our business and results of operations and could be material to our
earnings or cash flows in any given operating period. 

To
the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax
collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to
future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our
customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room
reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel service
less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or
hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions;
alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on
 merchant  hotel transactions.  Either
step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.  

In
many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities
seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit,
but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or
attorney fees and costs.  The October 2009 jury verdict in the San
Antonio litigation and the related proceedings to determine, among other
things, the amount of penalties, interest and attorney s fees that could be
owed by us illustrate that any liability associated with hotel occupancy tax
matters is not constrained by our liability for tax owed on our historical
gross profit.  

21    

Table of Contents   

We will continue to assess
the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to
the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities.  

Fluctuations in our
financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting
difficult.    

Our
revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to
quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect
seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional
leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third
calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In
the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services
in the United States and Europe generally declines and the number of bookings
flattens.  Furthermore, prior to
introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all of our
business was conducted under the  Name Your
Own Price      system and
accordingly, because those services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize
travel revenue at the time a booking was generated.  We recognize revenue generated from our
retail hotel service, however, including our international operations, at the time
that the customer checks out of the hotel. 
As a result, we have seen and expect to continue to see, that a
meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as
customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be
recognized until future quarters.  This
could result in a disproportionate amount of our annual earnings being
recognized in later quarters. 

Our results
may also be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the supply made available to
us by airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating
results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of
these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and
operating results may not be meaningful. For example,  we believe
our gross bookings and earnings growth rates reflected favorable year-over-year
comparisons in the second half of 2009 due to weak economic conditions in the
third and fourth quarters of 2008 (i.e., we began to see the effects of the
worldwide recession on our business at the end of the third quarter
2008).  Second, many travel suppliers have discounted or reduced their
fares or rates, which we believe has helped to stimulate demand for leisure
travel.  We believe that these factors, among others,  impacted our second half 2009 financial
results and helped our business perform well in the wake of the world wide
recession.  We believe that these positive
influences may not be present in future periods, which will make for progressively
less favorable year-over-year comparisons in 2010, particularly in the second
half of 2010.  A significant change in the global economic environment, such as we are currently
experiencing as a result of the worldwide recession, makes it more difficult to
forecast future operating results. 

Because of these
fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the
expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading
price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially adversely
affected.  

Our stock price is highly volatile  . 

The market price of our common
stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide
fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are
beyond our control:  

operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts
and investors;  

quarterly variations in our operating results;  

changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including
financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;  

announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our
competitors;  

changes in our capital structure;  

changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies;  

announcements by us or our competitors of price reductions, promotions,
significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or
capital commitments;  

loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain;  

changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;  

lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically;  

announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against
us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;  

occurrences of a significant security breach;  

additions or departures of key personnel; and  

stock market price and volume fluctuations.  

22    

Table
of Contents   

Sales of a substantial
number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of
our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given
the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market
price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations
in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock
attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds
into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either
direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.  

The trading prices of
Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme
price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public s perception of
the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price
could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and
industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless
of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political
and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate
fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock.  Negative market conditions could adversely
affect our ability to raise additional capital.  

We are defendants in
securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action
litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of
volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price
declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation.
This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert
management s attention and resources.  

Our business could be negatively affected by
changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of
traffic-generating arrangements.    

We utilize Internet search
engines and other travel demand aggregation websites, principally through the
purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites.  Our  international operations, in particular, rely to a significant
extent upon Google to generate business and, to a much lesser extent, other
search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites.  Search engines such as Google frequently
update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of results
of a user s search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and
particularly those of our international operations and their affiliates, can be negatively
affected.  In a similar way, a
significant amount of our international business is directed to our own websites through
participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines
whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially,
technically and competitively.  In
addition, we purchase web traffic from a number of sources, including some
operated by our competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can
be terminated with little or no notice. 
If one or more of such arrangements is terminated, or if a major search
engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively
affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party distribution
partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a
negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition
would be adversely affected. 

In addition, our  international operations rely on various
third party distribution channels (i.e., affiliates) to distribute hotel room
reservations.  Should one or more of such
third parties cease distribution of our international operations  reservations, or suffer deterioration in
its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or
otherwise, the business of our international operations could be negatively affected. 

Our processing, storage, use and disclosure
of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches
and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation,
conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights.   

The security of data when
engaging in electronic commerce is essential in maintaining consumer and
supplier confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing
security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or
other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We
currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their
offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our
toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer
circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including
our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer
transaction data.  

We cannot guarantee that our
existing security measures will prevent security breaches or attacks. A party
(whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is
able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer information or
transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in
our operations. For instance, from time to time, we have experienced
 denial-of-service  type attacks on our system that have made portions of our
websites slow or unavailable for periods of time.  We may need to expend significant resources
to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches,
and reductions in website availability and response time could cause loss of
substantial business volumes during the occurrence of any such incident.  These issues are likely to become more
difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools
and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced.  Security breaches could result in negative
publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and
possible liability and subject  

23    

Table
of Contents   

us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Security
breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence
in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our
brand.  Our insurance policies carry low
coverage limits, and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses
caused by security breaches.  

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find
unsatisfactory.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time
consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are
difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions
increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in
detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given
attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could
expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal customer data
and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

We also face risks
associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business
over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy
on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth
of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com service as a means of
conducting commercial transactions. 
Additionally, security breaches at third parties such as supplier or
distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity,
damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible
liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions.  Some of our business is conducted with third
party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our
infrastructure or through other systems. 
A security breach at such a third party could be perceived by consumers
as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity,
damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible
liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions.  In addition, such third parties may not
comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to
liability.  

In our processing of travel
transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable
data.  This data is increasingly subject
to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world,
including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection
Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European
Union.  This government action is
typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected,
processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  We could be adversely affected if legislation
or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if
governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations
in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

In addition, in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United
States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives
to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security
Administration s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as
CAPPS II.  These initiatives may result
in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling.  As privacy and data protection has become a
more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result
of differing views on the privacy of travel data.  Travel businesses have also been subjected to
investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper
disclosure of passenger information.  These
and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely
impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We rely on the performance of
highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key
personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be
harmed.   

Our performance is largely dependent on the
talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends
on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain
highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization.  In particular, the contributions of certain
key senior  

24    

Table of Contents   

management in the U.S., Europe and Asia are critical to the overall
management of the Company.  In addition,
because our European senior management s noncontrolling ownership interest was
repurchased in September 2008, it may become more difficult to retain
these senior managers.  We cannot ensure
that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior
management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business.  

In addition, competition for well-qualified
employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers and
other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad.  With the recent success of our international
business and the increased profile of the Booking.com business and brand,
competitors have increased their efforts to hire our international
employees.  Our continued ability to
compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to
retain and motivate existing employees. 
If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining
and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We
do not maintain any key person life insurance policies.  

Our expansion places a significant strain on our management, technical,
operational and financial resources.   

We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
international operations and anticipate expanding further to pursue growth of
our service offerings and customer base. For example, the number of our
employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007,
to approximately 2,010 as of January   31, 2010, which growth is almost entirely comprised of
hires by our international operations. 
Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a
significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance,
financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions.  

There can be no assurance that we will be able to
manage our expansion effectively.  Our
current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be
adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as
we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations.  We may not be able to hire, train, retain,
motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our
reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and harm our business.  

Capacity constraints and system failures could harm
our business.    

We rely on certain third
party computer systems and third party service providers, including the
computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car
industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and domestic hotel room and
rental car reservations. In particular, our domestic travel business is
substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators
of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in
these third party services systems or deterioration in their performance could
prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a
material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party
service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide
recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of
such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative
source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms
and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  

We depend upon Paymentech
to process our U.S. credit card transactions, and e-clearing, WorldPay and
others to process Agoda credit card transactions. If any of these providers
were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until
such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different vendor.  As we add complexity to our systems
infrastructure by adding new suppliers and distribution, our total system
availability could decline and our results could suffer.  

25    

Table of Contents   

A substantial amount of our
computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the
facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT T in New York City, Equinix Europe
Ltd. in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V., TelecityRedbus in the
Netherlands and certain other data centers. These systems and operations are
vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power
loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to
break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct.
Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of
service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other unanticipated
problems at the SAVVIS facility, the AT T facility, the Equinix Europe Ltd.
facility, the TelecityRedbus and Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. facility, or
other facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In
addition, the failure by SAVVIS, Verizon, AT T, Equinix Europe Ltd., Colt
Telecom Group Limited, Verizon Business B.V., TrueServer B.V. or other
communication providers to provide our required data communications capacity
could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that causes an
interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could
impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We
do not have a completely formalized disaster recovery plan in every geographic
region in which we conduct business.  In the event of certain system
failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the
time to full recovery could be prolonged. 
Like many online businesses, we have
experienced system failures from time to time. In addition to placing increased
burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of
user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support
personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an
immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial and may cause some users to
switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system
failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been
taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems. These
steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing
the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.  

We use both internally
developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including
transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If the number
of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party
systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and
upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and
accounting systems and other infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be
able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions
in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our
transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful
amount of time before repair.  

If our systems cannot be
expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could
experience:  

unanticipated disruptions in service;  

slower response times;  

decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or  

delays in the introduction of new services,  

any of which could impair our reputation, damage our
brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues.  While we do maintain redundant systems and
hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could
experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business
interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.  

Companies that we have
acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the
future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of
system challenges.  The process of enhancing
infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system  

26    

Table
of Contents   

characteristics may be time consuming and expensive
and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain.  Such acquisitions increase potential
downtime, customer facing problems and compliance problems.  Failure to successfully make any such
improvements to such infrastructures could expose us to potential capacity,
stability, and system problems that would have an adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our financial results will
be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future.    

Due to our significant net
operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to make payments of U.S. federal
tax for the foreseeable future, except for U.S. alternative minimum tax.  However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on
our foreign income.  We expect that our
international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the
U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax
payments will increase as our international business generates an increasing
share of our pretax income.  

Acquisitions could result in
operating difficulties.    

As part of our business strategy, in September 2004,
we acquired Booking.com Limited, in July 2005, Booking.com B.V. and, in November 2007,
Agoda.  We may enter into additional
business combinations and acquisitions in the future.  Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances
of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and
amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired.  In addition, the process of integrating an
acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating
difficulties and expenditures.  The
acquisitions of    Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited, and Agoda were
accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation:  

the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies
appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the
acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies;  

the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of   Booking.com
Limited, which are principally located in
Cambridge, England, Booking.com B.V., which are principally located in
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and Agoda, which are principally located in
Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, with and into our operations, which are
headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut;  

the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of
management;  

the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our
services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;  

the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting
in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;  

the impairment of relationships with customers of   Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited and Agoda or our own
customers as a result of any integration of operations;  

the impairment of relationships with employees of Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and Agoda or our own business as a result of any
integration of new management personnel;  

the potential unknown liabilities associated with Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and Agoda.  

We may experience similar
risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in
addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the
acquisitions of  Booking.com
B.V., Booking.com Limited or Agoda, or that we
could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause
us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $482.3 million assigned to the
intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited
and Agoda, and therefore, the occurrence of any
of the risks identified above could result in a material adverse impact,
including an impairment of these 

27    

Table
of Contents   

assets, which could cause us to have to record a
charge for impairment.  Any such charge
could adversely impact our operating results, which would likely cause our
stock price to decline significantly.  

We may not be able to keep
up with rapid technological and other changes.    

The markets in which we
compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry
standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and
enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with
these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened
by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from
many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future
success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies,
to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve
the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to
competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In
addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or
telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us
to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or
infrastructure.  

We rely on the value of the
priceline.com and Booking.com brands, along with others, and the costs of
maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing.    

We believe that maintaining
and expanding the priceline.com and Booking.com and Agoda brands, and other
owned brands, including Active Hotels, Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com,
MyTravelGuide.com and Travelweb, are important aspects of our efforts to
attract and expand our user and advertiser base.  As our larger competitors spend increasingly
more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our
brand recognition.  In addition, we have
spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and
maintenance of the priceline.com and Booking.com and Agoda brands, and we will
continue to spend money on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and
other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our
brands. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer
awareness of these brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding
efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain
or enhance customer awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner, our
business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely
affected.  

We are exposed to various counterparty risks.   

We
are party to derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuation, as well as potential dilution upon conversion of our
convertible senior notes.  As of December 31,
2009, we are party to foreign currency contracts with a notional value of 183.4
million Euros.  The counterparties to
these contracts are Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase and RBS Citizens Financial
Group.  On the maturity date of these
contracts, the counterparties are potentially obligated to pay us the net
settlement value.  

The
counterparties to our Conversion Spread Hedges are Goldman Sachs and Merrill
Lynch.  Under the Conversion Spread
Hedges, we are entitled to purchase from the counterparties approximately 8.5
million shares of our common stock (the number of shares underlying the 2011
Notes and the 2013 Notes) at a strike price of $40.38 per share (subject to
adjustment in certain circumstances) and the counterparties are entitled to
purchase from us approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock at a
strike price of $50.47 per share (subject to adjustment in certain
circumstances).  The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective
conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes to $50.47 per share from
our perspective and are designed to reduce the potential dilution upon
conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. If the market value per share
of our common stock at maturity is above $40.38, the Conversion Spread Hedge
will entitle us to receive from the counterparties net shares of our common
stock based on the excess of the then current market price of our common stock
over the strike price of the hedge (up to $50.47).  If any of the counterparties to these
derivative instruments were to liquidate, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease
operations, it may not satisfy its obligations under these derivative  

28    

Table of Contents   

instruments.  In such event, our fully diluted share count
would be increased, which would negatively impact our fully diluted earnings
per share.  

We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our
foreign cash balances are remitted to the United States   .  

As
of December 31, 2009, we held approximately $534.6 million of cash and
short-term liquid investments outside of the United States.  To date, we have used our foreign cash to
reinvest in our foreign operations.  It
is our current expectation to make further investments in our foreign
operations with our foreign cash.  If our
foreign cash balances continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those
balances diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will repatriate
some of our foreign cash balances to the United States.  In such event, we would likely be subject to
additional income tax expenses in the United States with respect to our
unremitted foreign earnings.  We would
not incur an increase in tax payments unless we repatriate the cash and no
longer have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset the taxable
income.  

In addition, on February 1,
2010, U.S. President Barack Obama proposed significant changes to the U.S.
international tax laws that would limit U.S. deductions for interest expense
related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax
credit rules, among other tax change proposals. 
We cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or
what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being
enacted into law.  If the U.S. tax laws
change in a manner that increases our tax obligation, our results could suffer.  

We face risks related to our
intellectual property.    

We regard our intellectual
property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our
proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual
property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.  

While we believe that our
issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business,
there can be no assurance that:  

a third party will not have
or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing features of
our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use those
features;  

our operations do not or
will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties;  

any patent can be
successfully defended against challenges by third parties;  

the pending patent
applications will result in the issuance of patents;  

competitors or potential
competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not
covered by our patents or patent applications;  

because of variations in the
application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be
effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat
business model to offer the same service in one or more categories;  

new prior art will not be
discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; or  

29    

Table of Contents   

legislative or judicial
action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and validity of any of
our patent rights.  

There has been recent
discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called
 business method  patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark
Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable
to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a
direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if
any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, t here has been recent discussion in various
federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called
 business method  patents. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in a
recent order in    In re Bilski   , has questioned whether it
should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called business
method patents in    State Street Bank v. Signature Financial   .  
We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will
have on our issued patents or pending patent applications. 

We pursue the registration
of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However,
effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our services are made available
online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the
value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.  

From time to time, in the
ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently
subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property
rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert
intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us,
particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual
property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely
expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert
managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us
could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our
business, or portions of our business. 
In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to
use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be
expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Our business is
exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and chargebacks.   

Our results have been
negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards. Because we
act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our domestic transactions as
well as those of Agoda, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit
cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers.
Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in
certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record.  Accordingly, we calculate and record an
allowance for the resulting credit card chargebacks.  If we are unable to combat the use of
fraudulent credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations
and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  

In addition, in the event
that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares
bankruptcy, we could experience an increase in credit card chargebacks from
customers with travel reservations with such supplier.  For example, airlines that participate in our
system and declare bankruptcy or cease operations may be unable or unwilling to
honor tickets sold for their flights. 
Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or
exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are
the merchant-of-record on sales of  Name Your
Own Price      airline tickets to
our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands
for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially
adversely affect our operations and financial results.  For example, in April 2008, Aloha
Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an increase
in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those airlines. 

30    

Table of Contents   

The unit profitability of certain of our
businesses has declined and could continue to decline, as we may be subject to,
among other things, competitive pressure and loss or reduction of global
distribution system fees.   

In recent years, the amount of profit we make per airline ticket sold
has declined and could continue to decline as we, among other things,
experience pressure from suppliers to reduce our profit, strive to remain
competitive with other online travel agencies and continue to be subject to
reduction of global distribution system, or GDS, fees paid to us.  Historically, we have relied on fees paid to
us by GDSs for travel bookings made through
GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and a substantial portion of our
operating income. We rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers (e.g.,
airlines, hotels, etc.) in exchange for contractual considerations such as
those relating to pricing and availability, and expect to continue to do so in
the future.  Suppliers put pressure on us
to reduce our aggregate compensation and book through lower cost channels to
receive full content and avoid penalties. 
We have agreements with a number of suppliers to obtain access to
content, and are in continuing discussions with others to obtain similar
access.  If we were denied access to full
content or had to impose service fees on our services, it could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Additionally, some travel
suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to
develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct
connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods.  Development of the technology to connect to
such alternatives, or to enable direct connections to travel suppliers,
requires the use of information technology resources and could cause us to
incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system
problems and delay other projects.  

31    

Table of Contents   

We are party to legal
proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us.    

We are a party to the legal
proceedings described in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The defense of the actions described in Note
17 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions
could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  

Regulatory and legal
uncertainties could harm our business.    

The
services we offer through the priceline.com service are regulated by federal
and state governments. Our ability to provide such services is and will
continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable
regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or
regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause
the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.  

Item 1B. 
Unresolved Staff Comments      

None.  

Item 2. 
Properties      

Our executive,
administrative, operating offices and network operations center are located in
approximately 92,000 square feet of leased office space located in Norwalk,
Connecticut.  We also lease approximately
46,000 square feet of office space in Grand Rapids, Michigan.  Booking.com Limited leases approximately
10,000 square feet of office space, most significantly in Cambridge,
England.  Booking.com B.V. leases
approximately 148,000 square feet of office space, most significantly in Amsterdam,
Netherlands, and in 20 other countries in support of its international
operations.  Agoda leases approximately
22,000 square feet of office space in Bangkok, Thailand, and in 9 other
countries in support of its international operations.  We do not own any real estate as of February 1,
2010.  

We believe that our existing
facilities are adequate to meet our current requirements, and that suitable
additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any
further expansion of corporate operations.  

32    

Table of Contents   

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings      

Litigation
Related to Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes   

We
and certain third-party defendants are currently involved in approximately
forty-five lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over
issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state
and local sales tax) and our  merchant  hotel business.  We are also involved in two consumer lawsuits
relating to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy taxes and
service fees.  In addition, over fifty
municipalities or counties, and at least two states, have initiated audit proceedings
(including proceedings initiated by more than forty municipalities in
California), issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to
the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales
tax).  Additional state and local
jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things,
hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could
seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively.  

With
respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the
ordinances at issue do not apply to the service we provide, namely the
facilitation of reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that
are claimed to be owed.  Rather, we believe that the ordinances at issue
generally impose hotel occupancy and other taxes on entities that either own,
operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel
rooms or similar accommodations.  In addition, in many of these matters, municipalities
have typically asserted claims for  conversion    essentially, that we have
collected a tax and wrongfully  pocketed  those tax dollars   a claim that we
believe is without basis and have vigorously contested.   The
municipalities that are currently involved in litigation and other proceedings
with us, and that may be involved in future proceedings, have asserted contrary
positions and will likely continue to do so.  

In
connection with some of these tax audits and assessments, we may be required to
pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being
allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in
judicial proceedings.  This requirement
is commonly referred to as  pay to play  or  pay first.   For example, the City of San Francisco
assessed us approximately $3.4 million (an amount that includes interest and
penalties) relating to hotel occupancy taxes, which we paid in July 2009.  Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an
admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even if such
payments are made, we intend to continue to assert our position
vigorously.  We have successfully argued
against a  pay first  requirement asserted in another California proceeding, as
discussed more fully below.  

Litigation
is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these
pending or future cases and proceedings. 
For example, in October 2009, a jury in a San Antonio class action
found that we and the other online travel companies that are defendants in the
lawsuit  control  hotels for purposes of the local hotel occupancy tax
ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject to the requirements of those
ordinances.  An unfavorable outcome or
settlement of pending litigation is likely to encourage the commencement of
additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an unfavorable outcome or
settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities
for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest,
penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  There have been, and will continue to be,
substantial ongoing costs, which may include  pay first  payments, associated
with defending our position in pending and any future cases or
proceedings.  An adverse outcome in one
or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse effect on
our business and results of operations and could be material to our earnings or
cash flow in any given operating period.  

To
the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax
collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to
future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our
customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room
reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel service
less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or
hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions;
alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on
 merchant  hotel transactions.  Either
step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.  

We
estimate that, since our inception through December 31, 2009, we have
earned aggregate gross profit, including fees, from our entire U.S.  merchant 
hotel business (which includes, among other things, the differential between
the price paid by a customer for our service and the cost of the underlying
room) of approximately $900 million. 
This gross profit was earned in over a thousand taxing jurisdictions
that we believe have aggregate tax rates (which may include hotel occupancy
taxes, state and local taxes, among other taxes) associated with a typical
transaction between a consumer and a hotel that  

33    

Table of Contents   

generally
range from approximately 6% to approximately 18%, depending on the
jurisdiction.  In many of the judicial
and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities seek not only
historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit, but also, among other things, interest,
penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  The October 2009
jury verdict in the San Antonio litigation and the related proceedings to
determine, among other things, the amount of penalties, interest and attorney s
fees that could be owed by us illustrate that any liability associated with
hotel occupancy tax matters is not constrained by our liability for tax owed on
our historical gross profit.  To date,
the majority of the taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the sale of
hotel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our U.S.
 merchant  hotel business.  With respect to municipalities that have not
initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the
future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect
taxes from us only on a prospective basis.  As a result of this
litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have
established a reserve for the potential resolution of issues related to hotel
occupancy and other taxes in the amount of approximately $21 million (which
includes, among other things, amounts related to the litigation in San
Antonio).  The reserve is based on our reasonable estimate, and the
ultimate resolution of these issues may be less or greater, potentially
significantly, than the liabilities recorded.  

Statewide Class Actions and Putative Class Actions   

A
number of cities and counties have filed class actions or putative class
actions on behalf of themselves and other allegedly similarly situated cities
and counties within the same respective state against us and other defendants,
including, but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC, both of
which are our subsidiaries, and Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.;
Cheaptickets, Inc.; Travelport, Inc. (f/k/a Cendant Travel
Distribution Services Group, Inc.); Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork
Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.;
Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP;
and Travelnow.com, Inc.  Each
complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants violated each
jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the
charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes under each ordinance.  Each complaint typically seeks compensatory
damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law, attorneys  fees and other
relief.  Such actions include:  

City
of Los Angeles v. Hotels.com, Inc., et al.   :  On December 30, 2004, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles
by the City of Los Angeles on behalf of itself and an alleged class of
California cities, counties and other municipalities that have enacted
occupancy taxes.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under California
Business and Professions Code   17200, et seq. ( Section 17200 ).  On August 31, 2005, the City of Los
Angeles filed an amended complaint adding a claim for a declaratory
judgment.  On September 26, 2005,
the court dismissed the amended complaint on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims, with leave to file a second amended complaint.  On February 8, 2006, the City of Los
Angeles filed a second amended complaint that asserts the same claims but
includes additional allegations of fact. 
On March 27, 2006, at the direction of the court, the defendants again
asserted improper joinder of defendants and claims.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
a petition to coordinate this matter with the City of San Diego case (discussed
below).  On July 12, 2006, that
petition was granted, and, as a result, this case and the City of San Diego
case proceeded in the Superior Court of Los Angeles.  On January 17, 2007, the defendants
challenged the City of Los Angeles  second amended complaint on all issues
other than misjoinder of defendants and claims. 
On March 1, 2007, the court denied defendants  previously-filed
challenges based on improper joinder.  On
March 2, 2007, the City of Los Angeles filed a third amended
complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the
defendants filed renewed challenges to the third amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
these challenges and dismissed the City s third amended complaint without
prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City has begun but
has not yet completed those administrative procedures.  

34    

Table of Contents   

City
of Rome, Georgia, et al., v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On November 18,
2005, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia by the City of Rome, Hart County and
the City of Cartersville on behalf of themselves and a putative class of
Georgia cities, counties and governments which have enacted transient occupancy
taxes and/or excise taxes on lodging.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of
Georgia s Uniform Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act, conversion, unjust
enrichment, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On February 6, 2006, we and certain
other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On May 8, 2006, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss all claims relating to the Georgia sales and use
tax and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the excise tax claims.  The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on June 7,
2006 naming additional plaintiffs.  On February 9,
2007, the defendants moved for summary judgment on the plaintiffs  claims for
plaintiffs  failure to exhaust the administrative procedures required by
Georgia law and by plaintiffs  respective ordinances.  On May 10, 2007, the court denied the
defendants  motion but concluded that plaintiffs were required to estimate,
assess and attempt to collect the taxes at issue.  The court stayed further litigation to permit
plaintiffs to comply with those administrative procedures.  On March 26, 2008, certain of the
plaintiffs in the  City of Rome  action sent the
defendants, including us and our subsidiaries, proposed assessments of hotel
occupancy tax.  We and our subsidiaries
promptly responded on March 31, 2008. 
Certain of the plaintiffs in the  City of Rome 
action sent the defendants, including us and our subsidiaries, renewed
assessments.  On July 10, 2009, the
court lifted the stay it had entered to require plaintiffs to pursue
administrative remedies.  In lifting the
stay, the court relied on recent Georgia Supreme Court rulings that
the administrative process in Georgia can be exhausted when a
municipality issues a notice of assessment.  Thereafter, the parties agreed to continue
the stay of the litigation, except for limited discovery that would allow the
parties to engage in mediation of the case. 

Pitt
County v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On December 1, 2005, a
putative class action complaint was filed in the North Carolina General Court
of Justice, Superior Court Division by Pitt County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of North Carolina political subdivisions that impose occupancy
taxes.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for violation of North Carolina General
Statute   75-1, et seq., conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory
judgment.  On February 13, 2006, the
defendants removed this action to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.  On March 13,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 29, 2007, the court denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On April 13, 2007, the defendants moved for reconsideration of that
decision or, in the alternative, interlocutory appeal.  On August 13, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion for reconsideration of the court s prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss, and dismissed the action in its entirety.  On September 6, 2007, Pitt County filed
a notice of appeal of that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit.  On January 14,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed the
district court s decision, rejecting Pitt County s tax claims.  On January 27, 2009, the County filed a
petition for re-hearing en banc.  On February 10,
2009, the petition for re-hearing en banc was denied.  The time for any further appeal has passed. 

City
of San Antonio, Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On May 8,
2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Texas, San Antonio Division, by the City of
San Antonio on behalf of itself and putative classes of Texas municipalities.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claim for conversion and a declaratory judgment.  On June 30, 2006, we and other
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On August 28, 2006, the plaintiff moved for class
certification.  On October 30, 2006,
the plaintiff filed a first amended complaint that limited the putative classes
of Texas municipalities to 175 specifically enumerated municipalities that
plaintiff alleges to have hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to that of the
plaintiff.  On March 21, 2007, the court
denied defendants  motion to dismiss the City of San Antonio s amended
complaint, and, on October 1, 2007, denied defendants  motion for
reconsideration of the court s denial of the motion to dismiss.  On May 27, 2008, the court granted the
City of San Antonio s motion to certify a class of 175 specifically enumerated
Texas municipalities that the City alleges to have hotel occupancy tax
ordinances similar to it.  On June 10,
2008, the defendants petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth 

35    

Table of Contents   

Circuit
for interlocutory review of the class certification decision, which petition
was denied on July 3, 2008.  On August 12,
2008, the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to
add equitable claims of unjust enrichment, money had and received, and for a
constructive trust.  Plaintiff amended
its complaint on August 13, 2008 and the defendants answered the amended
complaint on August 27, 2008. 
Following discovery, both plaintiffs and defendants filed motions for
summary judgment on March 30, 2009. 
On September 28, 2009, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for
partial summary judgment on a number of defendants  affirmative defenses,
including laches, waiver, estoppel and statute of limitations, but denied
summary judgment on all remaining issues. 
The matter proceeded to trial on October 5, 2009.  

On
October 30, 2009, the jury reached a verdict that found that we and the
other on-line travel companies that are defendants in the lawsuit  control 
hotels under the occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore,
responsible for collecting and remitting local hotel occupancy taxes.  The jury rejected the City of San Antonio s
claim for conversion   essentially, that we and the other on-line travel
companies had collected a tax and had wrongfully  pocketed  those tax dollars  
and for punitive damages.  

The
final amount of the judgment against us has not been determined.  The jury found that we and our wholly-owned
subsidiary, Travelweb LLC, owed the City of San Antonio and the 172 Texas
municipalities that make up the class approximately $2.0 million for historical
damages through May of 2009.  In
further proceedings, the Court will determine, among other things, whether the
occupancy tax ordinance applies to our service fee and the amount of penalties,
interest, and attorneys  fees, which could be significant.  We recorded a charge to general and
administrative expenses in the amount of $3.7 million related to this judgment
in the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.  Because we believe that the jury s decision
is inconsistent with the ordinances and the evidence presented at trial that we
do not control hotels, we intend to vigorously pursue our rights on appeal to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.  

Lake
County Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc. and Marshall County v.
Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On June 12, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Indiana, Hammond Division, by the Lake County Convention and Visitors Bureau
and Marshall County on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Indiana
counties, convention and visitors bureaus and any other local governments which
have enacted or benefit from taxes on innkeepers.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and breach of fiduciary
duties.  On July 14, 2008, the court
denied the defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint.  On July 28, 2008, the defendants
answered the complaint.  On March 31,
2009, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment based on the plaintiffs 
failure to exhaust administrative remedies. 
Plaintiffs opposed the motion for summary judgment on May 11,
2009.  Oral argument on the motion was
heard on November 19, 2009; the parties are awaiting the decision on the
motion. 

Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On September 21,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Kentucky by the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government on behalf of itself and a putative class of Kentucky cities,
counties and townships that have enacted transient room taxes.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, money had and received, unjust enrichment, a
constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment. 
On December 15, 2006, the plaintiff moved to amend the complaint to
make certain changes to the identity of the defendants. That motion was
granted, and, on January 8, 2007, plaintiff filed its amended
complaint.  On January 17, 2007,
defendants renewed their earlier motion to dismiss with respect to the amended
complaint.  On August 10, 2007, the
court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss. 
On September 13, 2007, the defendants answered.  On October 26, 2007, the defendants
filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s order denying the defendants 
motion to dismiss, or, in the alternative, certification of interlocutory
appeal to the Kentucky Supreme Court or the United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit.  On November 9,
2007, the plaintiff moved to strike the defendants  motion for
reconsideration.  On February 20,
2008, the Lexington-Fayette 

36    

Table of Contents   

Urban
County Government ( Lexington ) filed a motion to intervene in this action as
an additional plaintiff, which the defendants did not oppose.  On March 20, 2008, Lexington s motion
was granted, and its intervening complaint was filed on April 16,
2008.  Lexington s intervening complaint
makes substantially the same claims asserted by the Louisville/Jefferson County
Metro Government, except it does not seek to represent a class.  On March 21, 2008, the
Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government filed an unopposed motion to amend
its complaint to withdraw its allegations relating to the proposed
certification of a class and to make certain other changes to the alleged
facts.  That motion was granted on June 6,
2008 and the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government was ordered to file
an amended complaint.  On May 16,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the intervening complaint filed by the
Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government. 
On September 30, 2008, the court granted the defendants  motion for
reconsideration of its prior order denying the defendants  motion to dismiss
the claims brought by the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government, and
dismissed all of that plaintiff s claims, with prejudice.  The court also granted the defendants  motion
to dismiss the claims brought by the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government,
with prejudice.  Both plaintiffs filed
notices of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  Briefing was completed on the appeal on May 11,
2009, and oral argument took place on October 14, 2009.  The Sixth Circuit affirmed the trial court s
dismissal and judgment on December 22, 2009.  

County
of Nassau, New York v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On October 24,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of New York by Nassau County on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New York cities, counties and other local governmental
entities that have imposed hotel taxes since March 1, 1995.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment and a constructive
trust.  On January 31, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On August 17, 2007, the court granted the defendants  motion to
dismiss the complaint for the County of Nassau s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On September 12, 2007, the County of
Nassau filed a notice of appeal of that order to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.  On January 22,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit heard oral
argument on the County s appeal of the lower court s order dismissing the
action and ordered further briefing on certain issues.  On August 11, 2009, the Second Circuit
vacated the lower court s order dismissing the complaint, and remanded with
instructions to consider whether the complaint meets specified jurisdictional
requirements.  On September 10,
2009, the Second Circuit denied the defendants  petition for rehearing.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery specific to class certification issues. 

City
of Jefferson, Missouri v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On June 27,
2007, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Cole
County, Missouri by the City of Jefferson, Missouri on behalf of itself and a
putative class of Missouri cities, counties and governments that have enacted
taxes on lodging.  In addition to the
claim for hotel taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for violation of the
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment,
declaratory judgment, breach of fiduciary duties and a constructive trust.  On November 5, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On June 19,
2008, the court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss as to the claim for
violation of the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, and denied the remainder
of the motion, allowing the remaining claims to proceed.  On July 21, 2008, the defendants
answered the complaint.  On December 29,
2009, a settlement agreement among the parties was completed by the entry of a
stipulated court order of dismissal with prejudice. 

City
of Gallup, New Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On July 6,
2007, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of New Mexico by the City of Gallup on behalf of itself and a
putative class of New Mexico taxing authorities that have enacted lodgers 
taxes.  The complaint asserts claims for
violation of the New Mexico Lodger s Tax Act and municipal ordinances.  On August 27, 2007, the defendants
answered the City of Gallup s complaint. 
On January 8, 2009, plaintiffs filed a motion for class
certification and a motion for leave to amend the complaint.    The court granted the motion to amend on January 16,
2009.  On February 2, 2009,
defendants answered the first amended complaint.  After complete briefing, the court certified
a class on July 7, 2009.  On 

37    

Table of Contents   

August 27,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit entered an order
denying defendants  petition to appeal the order certifying a class.  On September 22, 2009, plaintiffs filed
a motion for partial summary judgment. 
Defendants  opposition to the motion for partial summary was filed on November 13,
2009.  The court has since stayed
discovery in the case pending its decision on the motion for partial summary
judgment.  The parties have scheduled a
mediation for March 3, 2010.  

City
of Jacksonville v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  In July 2006,
a putative class action was filed in the Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial
Circuit, in and for Duval County, Florida, by the City of Jacksonville on
behalf of itself and a putative class of Florida counties that collect tourist
development taxes and/or convention development taxes and that have elected
self administration of such taxes.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion,
unjust enrichment, a constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment.  On August 21, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint for the City of Jacksonville s
failure to exhaust its mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.
On September 10, 2007, the City of Jacksonville moved for a stay of
proceedings pending the outcome of that administrative process.  That motion was denied on October 31,
2007 and the case was closed.  No appeal
was taken by the City of Jacksonville. 
On July 1, 2008, the City of Jacksonville filed a first amended
complaint.  The proposed first amended
complaint asserts only a declaratory judgment claim related to the defendants 
alleged liability for tourist development taxes and/or convention development
taxes.  On July 15, 2008, the
defendants moved to dismiss and to strike the amended complaint.  On July 30, 2008, the plaintiff filed a
motion to amend its complaint.  On February 25,
2009, the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its
complaint.  On March 10, 2009,
plaintiff filed its first amended complaint and, on April 24, 2009, the
defendants answered the first amended complaint.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery. 

The
City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.  :  On June 2,
2008, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Middle District of Tennessee by the City of Goodlettsville and the City of
Brentwood, Tennessee on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Tennessee
political subdivisions that impose an occupancy tax.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for unjust enrichment and conversion.  On August 7, 2008, the defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.   On Oct. 2,
2008, the City of Brentwood, Tennessee voluntarily dismissed its claims, and
the case will proceed with the City of Goodlettsville as the sole
plaintiff.  On March 31, 2009, the
court denied defendants  motion to dismiss. 
On April 24, 2009, defendants answered the complaint.  On December 21, 2009, the plaintiff
moved for class certification, and the defendants opposed, on February 4,
2010.  The parties are currently
conducting discovery. 

The
Township of Lyndhurst, New Jersey v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.  :  On June 18,
2008, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey by the Township of Lyndhurst on behalf of itself and
a putative class of New Jersey political subdivisions that impose hotel
occupancy taxes.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, conversion, a
constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment. 
On August 19, 2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  On March 18, 2009, the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey granted defendants 
motion to dismiss the complaint with prejudice on the grounds that plaintiff
lacked standing to bring its claims.  On April 9,
2009, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeal for the Third Circuit.  On July 6,
2009, plaintiff filed their appellate brief. 
The defendants  answering brief was filed on August 5, 2009, and
the Township s reply brief was filed on August 19, 2009.  The Court of Appeal has elected to decide the
appeal without oral argument; the appeal remains pending. 

County
of Monroe, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc. et al   :  On January 12,
2009, the County filed a purported class action complaint in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Florida. In addition to claims with
respect to the application of the Tourist Development Tax, the complaint also
asserted claims for conversion, unjust enrichment and injunctive relief.  On March 30, 2009, the Court dismissed
the action because a scheduling report had not been submitted to the
Court.  Thereafter, on April 16,
2009, the plaintiff filed another complaint making the same substantive
allegations made in its  

38    

Table of Contents   

previous complaint.  On April 24, 2009, defendants moved to
dismiss.  The court granted in part, and
denied in part, defendants  motion to dismiss on December 17, 2009 by
dismissing the plaintiff s claim for injunctive relief. On December 31,
2009, the defendants answered the amended complaint.  On January 4, 2010, plaintiff filed a
motion for class certification. 
Defendants filed an opposition to class certification on January 14,
2010; and plaintiff s reply was filed on January 22, 2010.  The court has set a trial date of July 19,
2010.  The parties are currently
conducting discovery.  

County
of Genesee, MI, et al. v. Hotels.com LP, et al.  :  On February 24,
2009, the County filed a purported class action on behalf of itself and three
other Michigan counties in the Circuit Court for the County of Ingham. The
complaint asserts claims for violation of hotel tax statutes and ordinances,
conversion, and unjust enrichment, and seeks imposition of a constructive trust
and declaratory judgment.  On June 29,
2009, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.  Plaintiffs  response to the motion was filed August 14,
2009.  Oral argument on the motion was
held August 21, 2009.  On August 31,
2009, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint.  On September 21, 2009, defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
presently conducting discovery. 

Pine
Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission, Jefferson County, AR, et al. v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :
On September 30, 2009, Pine Bluff Advertising and Promotion  Commission, Jefferson County, Arkansas filed
a purported class action complaint in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County,
Arkansas seeking declaratory relief and monetary damages and alleging
violations of accommodations tax laws and ordinances.  Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on December 4, 2009.  On January 19,
2010, the court granted defendants  motion based on plaintiffs  failure to
timely file an opposition.  The plaintiff
thereafter filed an opposition to the motion to dismiss on January 22,
2010, and requested that the court reconsider its dismissal of the action. 

County
of Lawrence v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On September 9,
2009, the County of Lawrence, Pennsylvania filed a purported class action
complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.  On November 17, 2009,
the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the federal case, but subsequently filed
another complaint, on November 20, 2009, in the Court of Common Pleas of
Lawrence County, Pennsylvania seeking declaratory and monetary damages relief,
as well as alleging violations of the Pennsylvania hotel occupancy tax code,
conversion and unjust enrichment.  The
defendants  response to the complaint is due March 9, 2010.  

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings
described above.  

Actions Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities and Counties   

Several
cities, counties, municipalities and other political subdivisions across the
country have filed actions relating to the collection of hotel occupancy taxes
against us and other defendants, including, but not in all cases,
Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC, both of which are our subsidiaries, and
Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.; Cheaptickets, Inc.;
Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.; Expedia, Inc.;
Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC;
Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.;
Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  In each, the complaint alleges, among other
things, that each of these defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective
hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of
amounts to cover taxes under each ordinance. 
Each complaint typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement,
penalties available by law, attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such actions include:  

City
of Findlay v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al   and  City of Columbus, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al. :  On October 25, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Common Pleas Court of Hancock County, Ohio by
the City of Findlay on behalf of itself and a putative class of Ohio cities,
counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or excise taxes on
lodging.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for violation of the Ohio Consumer Sales
Practices Act, conversion, a 

39    

Table of Contents   

constructive
trust and a declaratory judgment.  On November 22,
2005, we and certain other defendants removed this action to the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. On July 26, 2006, the
court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the Consumer Sales Practices Act
claims and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 8, 2006, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio by the cities of Columbus and Dayton on behalf of themselves
and a putative class of Ohio cities, counties and townships.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, money had and received, conversion,
a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On July 10, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion to transfer the  City of Columbus 
case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio,
where the  City of Findlay  case is pending.  On July 23, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss the  City of Columbus 
plaintiffs  Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and denied defendants  motion
to dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 2,
2007, the City of Findlay filed a motion seeking leave to amend its complaint
to withdraw its allegations seeking to assert class-wide claims.  On August 15, 2007, the court granted
that motion and an amended complaint withdrawing those class allegations was
filed.  On August 31, 2007, the
defendants answered the  City of Columbus  complaint.  On September 4, 2007, the defendants
answered the  City of Findlay  amended
complaint.  On November 6, 2007, the
court granted the parties  joint motion to consolidate the  City of
Findlay  action with the  City of Columbus 
action for pre-trial purposes.  On February 19,
2008, the cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay moved to amend their
respective complaints to drop all class action allegations and to add nine
additional Ohio municipalities as plaintiffs. 
That motion was granted on February 27, 2008, and the plaintiffs 
first amended consolidated complaint was filed that day.  On March 26, 2008, the defendants moved
to dismiss the first amended consolidated complaint.  On June 19, 2008, the court denied the
defendants  motion.  On July 3,
2008, the defendants answered the first amended consolidated complaint.  On July 7, 2009, plaintiff amended the
complaint to add Franklin County Convention Authority as a plaintiff.  On July 17, 2009, defendants moved to
dismiss the new complaint.  The court
denied the motion on November 2, 2009. 
On October 23, 2009 defendants filed a motion to strike and/or
exclude the plaintiffs  expert.  On November 24,
2009 plaintiffs filed their opposition to defendants  motion to strike and/or
exclude their expert.  Defendants  reply was
filed on December 21, 2009.  That
motion remains pending.  

City
of Chicago, Illinois v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al  .:  On November 1,
2005, the City of Chicago, Illinois filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, imposition of
a constructive trust, and a demand for a legal accounting.  On January 31, 2006, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On September 27,
2007, the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On November 2, 2007, the defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
currently conducting discovery. 

City
of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.  :  On February 9,
2006, the City of San Diego, California filed a complaint in Superior Court for
the County of San Diego, California.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition
claims under Section 17200.  On March 31,
2006, the defendants filed a petition to coordinate this matter with the  City of Los Angeles  case (discussed above).  On July 12, 2006, that petition was
granted, and, as a result, this case was coordinated with the  City of Los Angeles  action and will proceed in the Superior
Court of Los Angeles.  As discussed
above, on March 1, 2007, the court denied defendants  previously-filed
challenges to the City of Los Angeles  second amended complaint on misjoinder
grounds, which the parties deemed applicable to the City of San Diego s
complaint.  On January 17, 2007, the
defendants filed challenges to the City of San Diego s complaint on all issues
other than misjoinder of defendants and claims. 
On March 8, 2007, the City of San Diego filed an amended
complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the
defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss the amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  challenges and dismissed the City s amended complaint without
prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City is presently
conducting those administrative procedures. 

40    

Table
of Contents   

City
of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.  :  On March 29,
2006, the City of Atlanta, Georgia filed a complaint in the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia.  In addition to
tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for a declaratory judgment,
conversion, unjust enrichment, a constructive trust and a demand for an
equitable accounting.  On June 5,
2006, certain defendants, including us and our subsidiaries, answered the
complaint.  The parties proceeded to
conduct discovery.  On October 12,
2006, as directed by the court, the defendants submitted briefs regarding the
City of Atlanta s failure to exhaust the administrative remedies dictated by
Georgia law and its own ordinance.  On December 12,
2006, the court dismissed the City of Atlanta s action for lack of jurisdiction
because the City of Atlanta failed to exhaust mandatory administrative remedies
prior to bringing suit.  On January 10,
2007, the City of Atlanta filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal.  On October 26, 2007, the Georgia Court
of Appeals affirmed the order of the Georgia Superior Court.  On November 5, 2007, the City moved for
reconsideration of the October 26, 2007 opinion, and that motion was
denied on November 13, 2007.  On December 10,
2007, the City filed a petition for certiorari with the Georgia Supreme Court.
On May 20, 2008, the Georgia Supreme Court granted certiorari as to
certain questions raised by plaintiff from the October 26, 2007 decision
of the Georgia Court of Appeals affirming the dismissal of this action.  On September 8, 2008, the Georgia
Supreme Court heard oral argument on that appeal.  On March 23, 2009, the Georgia Supreme
Court reversed the lower court s dismissal allowing the claim for declaratory
relief to be returned to the lower court. 
On April 7, 2009, the Georgia Supreme Court denied our and other
defendants  motion for reconsideration. 
The Georgia Supreme Court remanded the case to the lower court on May 23,
2009.  On October 23, 2009, the City
filed its first amended complaint.  On November 30,
2009, the defendants filed an answer to the amended complaint.  Dispositive motions must be filed on or
before March 1, 2010. 

City
of Charleston, South Carolina v. Hotel.com, et al.  :  On April 26,
2006, the City of Charleston, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of
Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, a constructive trust and a demand for a
legal accounting.  On May 31, 2006,
defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the
District of South Carolina, Charleston Division.  On July 7, 2006, the defendants answered
the complaint.  On January 23, 2007,
the City of Charleston moved to amend the complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.   On April 23, 2007, the court granted
plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and plaintiff amended its
complaint to assert such claims on May 14, 2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court granted
defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  Town of
Mount Pleasant  (discussed below). 
On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the amended
complaint.  On November 5, 2007, the
court denied that motion.  A trial date
has been set for June 17, 2010, with dispositive motion practice and
mediation anticipated prior to that date. 

Town
of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, et al.  :  On May 23,
2006, the Town of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court
of Common Pleas, Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On July 21, 2006, the defendants removed
the case to the United States District Court for the District of South
Carolina, Charleston Division.  On September 15,
2006, the defendants answered the complaint. 
On January 22, 2007, the Town of Mount Pleasant moved to amend the
complaint to assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade
Practices Act.  On April 23, 2007,
the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert
claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and
plaintiff amended its complaint to assert such claims on May 14,
2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court
granted defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  City of Charleston  (discussed above).  On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the court denied that motion.  On November 30,
2007, the defendants answered the amended complaint.  A trial date has been set for June 17,
2010, with dispositive motion practice and mediation anticipated prior to that
date. 

41    

Table
of Contents   

City
of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On August 28,
2006, the City of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the
Court of Common Pleas, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On October 27, 2006, we and certain
other defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the
District of South Carolina, Florence Division. 
On December 1, 2006, the defendants filed their motion to dismiss
the complaint.  On September 30,
2007, the court denied that motion.  On January 29,
2008, the City of North Myrtle Beach moved to amend its complaint to assert
claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.   On June 25, 2008, the court granted the
plaintiff s motion to amend its complaint to assert claims arising under the
South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act. 
On August 1, 2008, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint
asserting claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices
Act.  On August 15, 2008, the
defendants answered the amended complaint. 
A trial date has been set for June 7, 2010, with dispositive motion
practice and mediation anticipated prior to that date. 

Wake
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.; Dare County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.; Buncombe
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al., and Mecklenburg County v. Hotels.com LP, et
al.  :  On November 3, 2006, Wake County, North
Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior Court
Division, Wake County, North Carolina. 
In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy Taxes, the complaint
also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an injunction, conversion,
imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting, violation of North Carolina
General Statute   75-1,  et seq. , and
breach of agency duties and statutory penalties. On January 31, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss this action. 
On February 1, 2007, the defendants moved to designate the case as
a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina
Business Court, to which plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to
the Business Court.   On January 26,
2007, Dare County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court alleging
the same claim.  On February 1,
2007, Buncombe County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court.  The Buncombe complaint seeks a declaratory
judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes, as well as
supplemental relief including, without limitation, an accounting and a
determination of the amount of taxes due but unpaid.  On April 4, 2007, the  Wake County, Buncombe County and Dare County  actions were
consolidated for pre-trial purposes, and the following discussion applies to
all four actions.  On May 7, 2007,
the defendants moved to dismiss the  Dare County and Buncombe
County  actions.  On November 19,
2007, the court granted in part and denied in part the motions to dismiss the
three actions.  The court dismissed all
claims for conversion, all claim for violation of North Carolina General
Statute   75-1, et seq.  The remaining
claims brought by the other three plaintiffs survived the defendants 
motions.  On January 14, 2008,
Mecklenburg County filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior
Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for room occupancy
taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1, et seq., and breach of
agency duties and statutory penalties. 
On February 19, 2008, the  Mecklenburg 
action was consolidated with the  Dare, Mecklenburg and Wake
County  actions for pre-trial purposes.  On March 26, 2008, defendants moved to
dismiss the Mecklenburg action.  On May 15,
2008, the court granted in part and denied in part the motion to dismiss.  The parties are currently completing
discovery. 

City
of Branson v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.  :  On December 28, 2006, the
City of Branson, Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Greene
County, Missouri.  In addition to the
claim for Tourism Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory
judgment, conversion and a legal accounting. 
On April 23, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, and
that motion was denied on November 26, 2007.  The defendants answered the complaint on December 20,
2007.  The parties are currently
conducting discovery. 

Horry
County, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  :  On February 2,
2007, Horry County, South Carolina and the Horry County Administrator filed a
complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The complaint seeks a declaratory judgment
that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and that the plaintiffs are
entitled to other relief, including penalties and interest.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants moved
to dismiss the complaint.  On March 18,
2008, the court denied the defendants  motion 

42    

Table of Contents   

to
dismiss.  On May 9, 2008, the
defendants answered the complaint.  On August 14,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the plaintiff s declaratory judgment
claims, and that motion was denied on September 17, 2008.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery.  

City
of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.  : On February 2, 2007, the City of
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas,
Horry County.  The complaint seeks a
declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes and
that the plaintiff is entitled to other relief, including penalties and
interest.  On April 23, 2007, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On December 11, 2007, the court heard argument on that motion,
along with the motion in the Horry County action (discussed above). On August 14,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the plaintiff s declaratory judgment
claims, and that motion was denied on September 17, 2008.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery. 

City
of Houston, Texas v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.  :  On March 5, 2007, the City of
Houston, Texas filed a petition (i.e., a complaint) in the District Court
of Harris County, Texas.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
Houston hotel occupancy tax ordinance, the petition also asserted claims
for conversion, constructive trust, civil conspiracy, and a legal
accounting.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants filed special
exceptions, seeking to dismiss the petition.  On July 5, 2007,
the court denied in part and granted in part the defendants  challenges to the complaint. 
The court denied the challenges relating to the adequacy of the plaintiff s
allegations, but granted those that would require the plaintiff to state with
specificity the maximum amount of damages claimed.  On October 2,
2007, the City of Houston filed an amended petition adding the Harris
County Sports Authority as a plaintiff.  On October 15, 2007, we and
the other defendants filed renewed challenges to the complaint and affirmative
defenses.  On November 19, 2007, the court granted those special
exceptions. On January 22, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a second amended
petition.  On February 4, 2008, we and the defendants filed renewed
challenges to the petition and moved to dismiss the action.  On March 13,
2008, the court dismissed the action.  On April 14, 2008, the
plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to have their petition reinstated, which was
granted on May 27, 2008.  On November 23,
2009, defendants moved for summary judgment on all of plaintiffs  claims.  The court granted defendants  motion for
summary judgment in its entirety and dismissed the action with prejudice on January 19,
2010. 

City
of Oakland, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  :  On June 29,
2007, the City of Oakland, California filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California.  In addition to the claim for violation of the
City of Oakland s Transient Tax Ordinance, the complaint also asserted unfair
competition claims under California Business and Professions Code   17200,  et seq. , and claims for conversion, unjust enrichment,
punitive damages, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On September 18, 2007, the defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint.  On November 6,
2007, the court granted the defendants  motion and dismissed the City of
Oakland s complaint with prejudice for the City s failure to exhaust its
mandatory administrative procedures for tax collection.  On December 5, 2007, the City of Oakland
filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.  On July 16, 2008, we and
Lowestfare.com LLC received audit notices from the City.  On August 4, 2008, we and Lowestfare.com
LLC responded and requested a hearing before the City s Business Tax Board of
Review.  On July 17, 2009, the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the case for
failure to exhaust administrative remedies, but ruled that the action should have
been dismissed without prejudice, rather than with prejudice.  The case was therefore remanded.  Plaintiff s time to appeal dismissal expired
on October 14, 2009.  The City is
proceeding with administrative proceedings. 

City
of Baltimore, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.  :  On December 10,
2008, the City of Baltimore, Maryland filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Maryland. 
In addition to claims for declaratory and injunctive relief with respect
to the application of the City s Hotel Room Tax, the complaint also
asserted claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, assumpsit, constructive
trust, and punitive damages.  On March 16,
2009, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On June 1, 2009, the court denied the
motion.  The parties are proceeding with
discovery. 

43    

Table of Contents   

County
Commissioners of Worcester, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   :  On January 6, 2009, the County
Commissioners of Worcester, Maryland filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Maryland. 
In addition to the claim for violation of the County s Hotel Room Tax,
the complaint also asserted claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and
assumpsit.  On March 16, 2009, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On June 2, 2009, the court denied the motion.  On June 15, 2009, defendants filed a
motion for reconsideration, which was denied on July 21, 2009.  The parties are proceeding with discovery.  

City
of Bowling Green, KY v. Hotels.com LP et al.   :  On March 10, 2009, the City of Bowling
Green filed a complaint in Warren Circuit Court in the Commonwealth of Kentucky
against us and other defendants.  The
complaint asserts claims for violation of the Uniform Transient Room Ordinances,
unjust enrichment, money had and received, and conversion, and seeks imposition
of a constructive trust and declaratory judgment.  On May 21, 2009, defendants moved to
dismiss the complaint.  A hearing on the
motion took place on September 9, 2009, and the matter was taken under
submission by the court.  The parties are
awaiting the court s decision on the motion to dismiss.  

St.
Louis County, Missouri v. Prestige Travel, Inc. et al.:     On July 6, 2009, St. Louis County,
Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County,
Missouri.  The complaint sought
declaratory relief and monetary damages relating to the state and county s
transient guests tax, as well as alleging a claim for conversion.  On September 18, 2009, an amended
complaint was filed adding St. Louis Convention   Visitors Commission
as a plaintiff.  Defendants filed a
motion to dismiss the complaint on November 30, 2009 and the parties are
presently conducting discovery.  

The
Village of Rosemont, Illinois v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   :  On July 23, 2009, the Village of
Rosemont, Illinois filed a complaint in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Illinois. In addition to claims for injunctive relief
and monetary damages with respect to the application of the Village Hotel Tax,
the complaint also asserted claims for unjust enrichment and conversion.  Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on October 9, 2009. 
Plaintiffs opposed defendants  motion to dismiss on November 4,
2009.  Oral argument was heard on the
motion on January 15, 2010.  The
parties are awaiting the court s decision on the motion to dismiss and are
presently conducting discovery.  

Palm
Beach County, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   :  On July 30, 2009, Ann Gannon, purportedly
in her capacity as Palm Beach County Tax Collector and on behalf of Palm Beach
County, Florida, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the 15th Judicial
Circuit in and for Palm Beach County, Florida.  The complaint seeks
declaratory judgment and monetary damages relating to the County s tourist
development taxes.  The County thereafter
filed an amended complaint on December 1, 2009 making the same substantive
claims.  On January 8, 2010,
defendants filed an answer to the amended complaint.  

Brevard
County, Florida v. Priceline.com Inc., et al.   :  On October 2, 2009, Brevard County filed
a complaint in the United State District Court for the Middle District of
Florida.  The complaint sought injunctive
relief and monetary damages relating to the County s tourist development taxes,
as well as claims of unjust enrichment and conversion.   Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on December 7, 2009.  On January 4,
2010, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claim for injunctive relief.  The parties are awaiting the court s decision
on the remaining parts of defendants  motion to dismiss.  

Leon
County, et al. v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   :  On November 5, 2009, Leon County,
Florida, five other Florida counties, and certain individual tax collectors for
some of the counties filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the Second
Judicial Circuit, in and for Leon County, Florida.  The complaint seeks injunctive relief and
monetary damages relating to the County s tourist development taxes.  Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on January 19, 2010.  The
plaintiffs indicated that they intend to  

44    

Table of Contents   

amend
the complaint by dropping their claims for monetary damages.  The Court has not yet scheduled a hearing
date on defendants  motion.  

Leon
County v. Expedia, Inc. et al.   :  On December 22, 2009, Leon County filed
a complaint in the Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and for
Leon County, Florida.  It also names the
Florida Department of Revenue as a defendant. 
The complaint seeks declaratory relief and monetary damages relating to
the Florida transient rental tax.  The
defendants  motion to dismiss was filed on February 10, 2010.  

City
of Birmingham, et al. v. Orbitz, Inc., et al.   :  On December 11, 2009, the City of
Birmingham and eight other Alabama cities, and the Birmingham-Jefferson Civic
Center Authority filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Jefferson
County.  The complaint seeks declaratory
judgment regarding defendants  alleged obligation to remit lodging tax to each
named jurisdiction.  Defendants  answer
to the complaint is due on February 19, 2010.  

We
have also been informed by counsel to the plaintiffs in certain of the
aforementioned actions that various, undisclosed municipalities or taxing
jurisdictions may file additional cases against us, Lowestfare.com LLC and
Travelweb LLC in the future.  Some
municipalities or taxing jurisdictions have sent us and/or our subsidiaries tax
notices or demands, including Brunswick County and Stanly County, North
Carolina; and the City of North Little Rock, Arkansas.  

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings described
above.  

Judicial Actions Relating to Assessments Issued by Individual Cities
and Counties   

After
administrative remedies have been exhausted, we may seek judicial review of
assessments issued by an individual city or county.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
et al. v. Broward County, Florida   :  In May 2008, we (including Travelweb
LLC) received assessments from the County. 
On June 19, 2008, we submitted formal protests of the assessments
and on November 13, 2008, our protests were denied.  On January 13, 2009, we filed suit in
the Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and for Leon County,
Florida, against the County and the Florida Department of Revenue challenging
the assessments.  The County and the
Department of Revenue answered and filed a counterclaim on February 2,
2009.  In addition to claims for
injunctive relief with respect to the County s tourist development tax, the
counterclaim also asserted claims for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion and
statutory civil theft.  The counterclaim
defendants moved to dismiss the counterclaims and to strike the affirmative
defenses on February 23, 2009, and we responded on March 24,
2009.  On March 3, 2009, defendant
Broward County moved to consolidate the action with an action captioned  Orbitz, LLC, Internetwork Publishing Corp., d/b/a Lodging.com v.
Broward County, Florida and Florida Department of Revenue , Case No. 2009
CA 000126.  Although we opposed the
motion to consolidate, on May 13, 2009, the case was consolidated with
other cases filed by online travel companies. 
On August 25, 2009, we filed our complaint in the CA 000126
action.  On October 30, 2009, we
joined in a motion to dismiss counterclaims filed by other defendants; on November 23,
2009, Broward County filed its response to that motion and its first amended answer,
defenses and counterclaims.  On December 15,
2009, we and other plaintiffs filed a motion to dismiss and motion to strike
the County s first amended answer, defenses, and counterclaim to the Orbitz
defendants  August 25, 2009.  The
parties are awaiting the court s decision on the pending motion.  

Priceline.com
Inc. et al. v. City of Anaheim et al.   :  In May 2008,
we, Travelweb LLC and Lowestfare.com LLC received assessments from the
City of Anaheim, California.  On June 2,
2008, we submitted formal protests of the assessments.  On February 6, 2009, the City-appointed
hearing officer issued a ruling upholding the determination that we were liable
for the Transient Occupancy Tax, but reducing the amounts of the assessments
issued.  On February 11, 2009,
we and Travelweb LLC filed suit  

45    

Table of Contents   

in Superior Court of the
State of California, County of Orange, against the City and the hearing officer
challenging the assessments and the liability determination.  

On February 18,
2009, we and Travelweb LLC joined a motion filed by Expedia, Inc. seeking
a ruling that the plaintiffs do not have to pay the amounts assessed by the
City until resolution of the matter by the courts.  On February 26, 2009, the City moved to
dismiss on the basis that plaintiffs had not paid the assessed amounts prior to
filing the action.  On March 30,
2009, the court ruled that we, Expedia, and others did not have to pay the
assessed amount as a precondition to bringing suit in the courts.  On March 25, 2009, plaintiffs moved to
consolidate the case with the  City of Los Angeles 
case.  On April 17, 2009, the City
answered the petition and complaint and filed a cross complaint asserting
claims for conversion, and violations of the California Civil Code.  The cross-complaint also sought imposition of
a constructive trust, and seeks injunctive relief based upon alleged violations
of the transient occupancy tax.  On May 4,
2009, the case was consolidated with the  City
of Los Angeles  case.  

On July 15,
2009, the City filed a motion for denial of our petition to overturn the
decision of the tax hearing officer.  On September 21,
2009, we and other online travel companies filed a motion for judgment granting
that relief.  On February 1, 2010,
the court granted the online travel companies  motion for judgment to set aside
the hearing officer s determination and denied the City s competing application
to dismiss the complaint.  The City may
file a notice of appeal of the court s order.  

On September 17,
2009, the City filed a motion for summary adjudication; that briefing
presumably is moot in light of the court s decision described above.  

In
addition, in connection with this proceeding, on May 22, 2009, the City
filed a petition seeking appellate review of the order on the  pay first 
issue; opposition and reply briefs followed.  On June 11, 2009, the
Court of Appeal denied the City s petition.  On June 18, 2009, the
City filed a petition for review with California Supreme Court on the  pay
first  issue; opposition was filed on July 9, 2009.   On November 24,
2009, the Court of Appeal denied the City s petition to overturn the denial of
the City s challenge to the Superior Court action on pay first grounds.  The City filed a petition for review from the
California Supreme Court on December 29, 2009.  We and the other parties to the suit filed an
answer to the petition for review on January 19, 2010.  

Also
in connection with this matter, in separate proceedings initiated on September 11,
2008 in the California Superior Court for the County of Orange, we, along with
other online travel companies, challenged the City s use of contingency fee
counsel in transient occupancy tax proceedings.  On October 31, 2008,
the court denied that petition.  We and the other online travel companies
appealed that ruling to the California Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate
District; the parties  briefing on the appeal was completed on May 12,
2009.  Oral argument was heard on October 19,
2009.  On January 5, 2010, the
appellate court affirmed the lower court s ruling denying the petition.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
v. Indiana Department of State Revenue   :  On May 5, 2008, the Indiana Department
of State Revenue issued a proposed assessment purportedly based on a Gross
Retail Tax and County Innkeeper s Tax, which we protested on June 18,
2008.  On November 24, 2008, the
department denied the protest and subsequently, on January 30, 2009,
denied our motion for a rehearing.  On March 30,
2009, we filed a petition in the Indiana Tax Court appealing the department s
final determination.  The parties are
presently conducting discovery.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
et al. v. City of San Francisco, California, et al.   :  On October 31, 2008, the City and County
of San Francisco issued an assessment which we appealed through the
administrative process.  On May 15, 2009, we were assessed
approximately $3.4 million, which includes interest and penalties, for hotel
occupancy tax from January 1, 2000 to September 30, 2008.  On June 11,
2009, we filed a petition to overturn the administrative determination and a
complaint for declaratory relief in San  

46    

Table of Contents   

Francisco
Superior Court challenging the assessment. 
On July 16, 2009, we paid the assessment and charged the amount
against our reserve for hotel occupancy and other taxes.  On August 4,
2009, we filed an administrative refund claim. 
On August 31, 2009, we filed an amended petition and an amended
complaint for declaratory judgment. On December 11, 2009, we filed a
second amended complaint.  The City filed
a challenge to the second amended complaint on January 19, 2010.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
v. Miami-Dade County, Florida, et al.   :  On September 2, 2008, Miami-Dade County
issued an assessment totaling about $506,000, which includes interest and
penalties for tourist and convention development tax from March 20, 2002
through January 2007.  We filed an
informal protest on August 11, 2009, which was denied on October 21,
2009.  On December 18, 2009, we
filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and
for Leon County, Florida against Miami-Dade County, Florida and the Florida
Department of Revenue seeking to invalidate the assessment.  On January 21, 2010, Miami-Dade County
answered and asserted counterclaims against us. 
In addition to claims for declaratory and injunctive relief with respect
to the County s tourist development tax and state s transient sales tax, the
counterclaim also asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust
enrichment and conversion.  Our response
date to the counterclaim is February 26, 2010.  

We
intend to prosecute vigorously our claims in these actions.  

Consumer Class Actions   

Two
purported class actions brought by consumers were pending against us:  

Marshall,
et al. v. priceline.com, Inc.   :  On February 17, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware for
New Castle County by Jeanne Marshall and three other individuals on behalf of
themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated consumers
nationwide against us.  The complaint
alleged that we violated the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act, Del. Code Ann. Tit.
6,   2511,  et seq. , relating to our disclosures and
charges to customers to cover taxes under city hotel occupancy tax ordinances
nationwide, and service fees.  We moved
to dismiss the complaint on April 21, 2005.  On June 10, 2005, plaintiffs filed an
amended complaint that asserts claims under the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act and
for breach of contract and the implied duty of good faith and fair
dealing.  On October 31, 2006, the
court granted in part and denied in part our motion to dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims arising under
the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.  The
court also dismissed all claims for breach of contract and the implied duty of
good faith and fair dealing that relate to our charges for service fees.  The court denied our motion to dismiss the
breach of contract and implied duty of good faith and fair dealing claims as
they relate to our charges to consumers to cover taxes under city hotel
occupancy tax ordinances.  On February 1,
2008, two of the four plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against
us.  On February 29, 2008, the
remaining plaintiffs moved for leave to amend their complaint to assert
additional claims for breach of contract and the implied duty of good faith and
fair dealing alleging that we included a hidden fee within the room rate
charge.  On August 28, 2008, the
court granted plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend.  The plaintiffs filed their second amended
complaint on September 12, 2008, and we answered that complaint on September 26,
2008.  The parties  summary judgment
motions have been submitted and a hearing was held in January 2009; we are
awaiting the court s ruling.  

Chiste,
et al. v. priceline.com Inc., et al.   :  On December 11, 2008, a putative class
action was filed by plaintiff Matthew R. Chiste and two other individuals on
behalf of themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated
consumers nationwide against us, Lowestfare.com, Inc. and Travelweb,
LLC.  The complaint alleges the
defendants overcharge consumers by collecting Hotel Occupancy and sales taxes
over and above that necessary to pay the actual taxes on the hotel room
reserved by the customer.  The complaint
asserts claims for deceptive business practices, declaratory and injunctive
relief, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of contract.  Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint on March 6,
2009.  Briefing was completed on July 3,
2009.  The parties are awaiting the
court s decision.  

47    

Table of Contents   

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings
described above.  

Administrative Proceedings and Other Possible Actions   

At
various times we have also received inquiries or proposed tax assessments from
municipalities and other taxing jurisdictions relating to our charges and
remittance of amounts to cover state and local hotel occupancy and other
related taxes.  Among others, the City of
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the City of Phoenix, Arizona, and state tax
officials from Texas, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania have begun formal or informal
administrative procedures or stated that they may assert claims against us
relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel occupancy or related
taxes.  Since late 2008, we have received
audit notices from more than forty cities in the state of California.  We are engaged in audit proceedings in each
of those cities.  We have also been
contacted for audit by five counties in the state of Utah and by Osceola County
Florida.  

Other Recent Developments   

On
June 29, 2009, the City of New York amended its hotel occupancy tax
ordinance, effective September 1, 2009, purporting to impose obligations
and liability on third party intermediaries, including online travel companies,
for tax on the amounts (including booking and service fees) charged by such
intermediaries relating to a room reservation. 
The hotel occupancy tax rate for New York City in the amended statute is
5.875%.  We evaluated the amended
ordinance and have begun to collect and remit tax in accordance therewith.  Concurrent with our compliance with the
revised ordinance, we joined in the lawsuit  Expedia, Inc. et al.
v. City of New York Department of Finance, et al.,  asserting our
legal objections to the revised ordinance.  

Litigation
Related to Securities Matters   

On
March 16, March 26, April 27, and June 5, 2001,
respectively, four putative class action complaints were filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York naming priceline.com, Inc.,
Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter  
Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston
Robertson Stephens, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants
(01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576, 01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).  Shives  et
al . v. Bank of America Securities LLC  et al ., 01 Civ. 4956, also names other defendants and states
claims unrelated to us.  The complaints
allege, among other things, that we and the individual defendants violated the
federal securities laws by issuing and selling priceline.com common stock in
our March 1999 initial public offering without disclosing to investors
that some of the underwriters in the offering, including the lead underwriters,
had allegedly solicited and received excessive and undisclosed commissions from
certain investors.  By Orders of Judge
Mukasey and Judge Scheindlin dated August 8, 2001, these cases were
consolidated for pre-trial purposes with hundreds of other cases, which contain
allegations concerning the allocation of shares in the initial public offerings
of companies other than us.  By Order of
Judge Scheindlin dated August 14, 2001, the following cases were
consolidated for all purposes:  01 Civ.
2261; 01 Civ. 2576; and 01 Civ. 3590.  On
April 19, 2002, plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action
Complaint in these cases.  This
Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint makes similar allegations to
those described above but with respect to both our March 1999 initial
public offering and our August 1999 second public offering of common
stock.  The named defendants are
priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock, Jay S. Walker, Paul E. Francis,
Nancy B. Peretsman, Timothy G. Brier, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter  
Co., Goldman Sachs   Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  
Smith, Inc., Robertson Stephens, Inc. (as successor-in-interest to
BancBoston), Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. (as successor-in-interest to
Donaldson Lufkin   Jenrette Securities Corp.), Allen   Co., Inc.
and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. 
Priceline.com, Richard Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Nancy Peretsman,
and Timothy Brier, together with other issuer defendants in the consolidated
litigation, filed a joint motion to dismiss on July 15, 2002.  On November 18, 2002, the cases against
the individual defendants were dismissed without prejudice and without costs.  In addition, counsel for  

48    

Table of Contents   

plaintiffs
and the individual defendants executed Reservation of Rights and Tolling
Agreements, which toll the statutes of limitations on plaintiffs  claims
against those individuals.  On February 19,
2003, Judge Scheindlin issued an Opinion and Order granting in part and denying
in part the issuer s motion.  None of the
claims against us was dismissed.  On June 26,
2003, counsel for the plaintiff class announced that they and counsel for the
issuers had agreed to the form of a Memorandum of Understanding (the
 Memorandum ) to settle claims against the issuers.  The terms of that Memorandum provide that
class members will be guaranteed $1 billion in recoveries by the insurers of
the issuers and that settling issuer-defendants will assign to the class
members certain claims that they may have against the underwriters.  Issuers also agree to limit their abilities
to bring certain claims against the underwriters.  If recoveries in excess of $1 billion are
obtained by the class from any non-settling defendants, the settling
defendants  monetary obligations to the class plaintiffs will be satisfied; any
amount recovered from the underwriters that is less than $1 billion will be
paid by the insurers on behalf of the issuers. 
The Memorandum, which is subject to the approval of each issuer, was
approved by a special committee of our Board of Directors on Thursday, July 3,
2003.  Thereafter, counsel for the
plaintiff class and counsel for the issuers agreed to the form of a Stipulation
and Agreement of Settlement with Defendant Issuers and Individuals ( Settlement
Agreement ).  The Settlement Agreement
implements the Memorandum and contains the same material provisions.  On June 11, 2004, a special committee of
the priceline.com Board of Directors authorized our counsel to execute the
Settlement Agreement on behalf of us. 
The Settlement Agreement was submitted to the Court for approval.  Subsequently, the Second Circuit reversed the
District Court s granting of class certification in certain of the related
class actions.  As a result, the parties
entered into a stipulation and order dated June 25, 2007 which terminated
the Settlement Agreement.  After
extensive negotiations, the parties reached a comprehensive settlement on or
about March 30, 2009.  On April 2,
2009, plaintiffs filed a Notice of Motion for Preliminary Approval of
Settlement.  On June 9, 2009, the
court granted the motion and scheduled the hearing for final approval for September 10,
2009.  The settlement, previously
approved by a special committee of our Board of Directors, compromised the
claims against us for approximately $0.3 million. The court issued an order
granting final approval of the settlement on October 5, 2009.  Notices of appeal of the Court s order have
been filed with the Second Circuit. 
These appeals are still pending.  

We
intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings
described in this Item 3.  We have
accrued for certain legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  Except as disclosed, such amounts accrued are
not material to our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provisions recorded have
not been material to our consolidated results of operations.  We are unable to estimate the potential
maximum range of loss.  

From time to time, we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject
to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including
claims of alleged infringement of third party intellectual property
rights.  Such claims, even if not
meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, divert management s attention from our business
objectives and could adversely affect our business, results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.  

Item 4. 
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders      

No matters were submitted for
a vote of stockholders of priceline.com during the fourth quarter of the year
ended December 31, 2009.  

49    

Table of Contents   

PART II     

Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      

Price Range of Common Stock   

Our
common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol
 PCLN.   The following table sets forth,
for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the
common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market:  

Holders   

As
of February 1, 2010, there were approximately 420 stockholders of record
of priceline.com s common stock, although we believe that there are a
significantly larger number of beneficial owners.  

Dividend Policy   

We
have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock since our
inception and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable
future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the
expansion of our business.  

50    

Table of Contents   

Performance Measurement Comparison          The following graph shows the total stockholder return through December 31, 2009 of an investment of $100 in cash on January 1, 2005 for priceline.com common stock and an investment of $100 in cash on January 1, 2005 for (i) the NASDAQ Market Index, (ii) the Standard and Poor s 500 Index and (iii) the Hemscott Group Index.  The Hemscott Group Index is an index of stocks representing the Internet industry, including Internet software and services compani
es and e-commerce companies.  The S P 500 Index has been added to the performance graph for the year ended December 31, 2009, because priceline.com was added to the S P 500 Index in November 2009.  Historic stock performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.  All values assume reinvestment of the full amount of all dividends and are calculated as of the last day of each month:               COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG PRICELINE.CO
M, INC.,      NASDAQ MARKET INDEX, S P 500 INDEX AND HEMSCOTT GROUP INDEX                                 

Sales of Unregistered Securities   

In
2009, holders of our 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes converted approximately
$77.0 million principal amount of notes into 1,438,294 shares of our common
stock; holders of our 2011 Notes converted approximately $94.6 million
principal amount of notes into 1,735,208 shares of our common stock and holders
of our 2013 Notes converted approximately $25.5 million principal amount of
notes  

51    

Table of Contents   

into 410,249 shares of our common stock.  Such issuances of shares of our common stock
were made under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.  See Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The following table sets forth information relating
to repurchases of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31,
2009:  

ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

(1)       Pursuant to a stock repurchase program
announced on November 2, 2005, whereby the Company was authorized to repurchase
up to $50,000,000 of its common stock.  

(2)       Pursuant to a stock repurchase program
announced on September 21, 2006, whereby the Company was authorized to
repurchase up to $150,000,000 of its common stock.  

(3)       Pursuant to a general authorization, not
publicly announced, whereby the Company is authorized to repurchase shares of
its common stock to satisfy employee obligations related to stock-based
compensation.  

52    

Table of Contents   

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data      

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   

The
following selected consolidated financial data presented below are derived from
the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of the Company, and
should be read in connection with those statements, some of which are included
herein.    Selected financial data
reflects data related to Agoda and Booking.com from their respective
acquisition dates of November 2007 and July 2005.  The information set forth bel  ow is not
necessarily indicative of future results and should be read in conjunction with
Item 7,   Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on the adjustments resulting from the adoption
of new accounting standards effective January 1, 2009.  

(1)                                      The Company recorded a $55.4 million
expense related to a litigation settlement in 2007.  

(2)                                      The Company recorded non-cash income tax
benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the reversal
of a portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to
net operating loss carryforwards of $183.3 million.  The Company also recorded income tax benefits
in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, amounting to $47.9
million, $28.1 million and $170.5 million, respectively, resulting from a
reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets
related to domestic net operating loss carryfowards generated from operating
losses.  

(3)                                      In September
2008, the Company repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares
underlying noncontrolling interests.  

(4)                                      Includes convertible debt which is
classified as a current liability as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

(5)                                      Includes noncontrolling interests of
$23.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

53    

Table of Contents   

Item 7.
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations      

The
following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial
statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K, and the Section entitled  Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements  in this Form 10-K.  As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled
 Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,  this discussion contains
forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties.  Our actual results may differ materially from
the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that might cause those differences
include, but are not limited to, those discussed in  Risk Factors.     

Overview   

We
are a leading online travel company that offers our customers a broad range of
travel services, including hotel rooms, car rentals, airline tickets, vacation
packages, cruises and destination services. Internationally, we offer our
customers hotel room reservations in over 90 countries and 32 languages. 
In the United States, we offer our customers a unique choice: the ability to
purchase travel services in a traditional, price-disclosed manner or the
opportunity to use our unique  Name Your Own
Price   service, which allows our customers to make offers for
travel services at discounted prices.  

We
launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com
brand and have since expanded our operations to include, among others, the
brands Booking.com worldwide and Agoda in Asia.  Our principal goal is to
be the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service.  Our business
is driven primarily by international results. 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, our international business
  the significant majority of which is currently generated by Booking.com  
represented approximately 61% of our gross bookings (an operating and
statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes
and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately
75% of our consolidated operating income. 
Given that our international business is primarily comprised of hotel
reservation services, commissions earned in connection with the reservation of
hotel room nights has come to represent a substantial majority of our gross
profit.  

Because
our domestic services include merchant  Name
Your Own Price       travel services, which are reported on a
 gross  basis, while both our domestic and international retail travel services
are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, revenue increases and decreases are
impacted by changes in the mix of the sale of  Name
Your Own Price       and retail travel services and, consequently,
gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth
in our business.  At present, we derive
substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources:  

Commissions earned from the
sale of price-disclosed hotel room reservation, rental cars, cruises and other
travel services;  

Transaction gross profit and
customer processing fees from our  Name Your
Own Price   hotel room, rental car and airline ticket services,
as well as our vacation packages service;  

Transaction gross profit and
customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room service;  

Global distribution system
( GDS ) reservation booking fees related to both our  Name Your Own Price   airline ticket, hotel room and
rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car
services; and  

54    

Table of Contents   

Other gross profit derived
primarily from selling advertising on our websites.  

The worldwide recession   continues to negatively
affect the broad travel market and, as a result, our business.  Since the onset of the worldwide recession,
hotel operators have reported significant decreases in occupancy rates (a
common metric that measures hotel customer usage) and average daily rates
( ADRs ) in the United States, Europe and Asia. 
While these trends have recently shown signs of stabilization, there can
be no assurance that the worldwide recession
will not worsen or continue or that the worldwide recession will not have
further negative impact on the travel industry and, as a result, our business.  

Our recent performance
has been aided by several factors that will likely not be present in future
periods and, as a consequence, our year-over-year financial comparisons will be
progressively more difficult in 2010, particularly in the second half of 2010.    First, we believe our gross bookings and
earnings growth rates reflected favorable year-over-year comparisons in the
second half of 2009 due to weak economic conditions in the third and fourth
quarters of 2008 (i.e., we began to see the effects of the worldwide recession
on our business at the end of the third quarter 2008).  Second, many
travel suppliers have discounted or reduced their fares or rates, which we
believe has helped to stimulate demand for leisure travel.  We believe
that these factors, among others, positively impacted our second half 2009
financial results and helped our business perform well in the wake of the world
wide recession.  We believe that these
positive influences may not be present in future periods, which will make for
less favorable   and   progressively
  more difficult   year-over-year comparisons in 2010, particularly in
the second half of 2010.  For example,
year-to-date in 2010, we have seen a deceleration in year-over-year hotel room
night reservations as compared to the year-over-year growth rate in the fourth
quarter of 2009. In 2010, we expect year-over-year growth rates in hotel room
night reservations to resume the pattern of deceleration we began to experience
before the onset of the worldwide recession.  

Large, established Internet
search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online
commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating   and intend to further
create   inroads into online travel.  For
example, Google recently launched  Google City Tours ,
an application that offers multi-day travel itineraries in destinations around
the world, and Microsoft recently launched  Bing Travel , a
 meta-search  site, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online
and predicts the best time to purchase them. 
 Meta-search  sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel
search results for the searcher s specific itinerary across supplier, travel
agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for
customers.  These initiatives, among
others, illustrate Google s and Bing s clear intention to more directly appeal
to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel results,
including specific information for travelers  own itineraries, which could lead
to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of Google s or Bing s traffic or
may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own
websites.  If Google, as the single
largest search engine in the world, or Bing or other leading search engines
refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop
in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from
supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites
such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.  

International Trends   .  The size of the travel market outside of the
United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet adoption rates and
e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the
United States.  However, international
consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online
travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue
to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  In addition, the base of hotel suppliers in
Europe is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where
the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains.  We believe online reservation systems like
ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly
found outside of the United States.  We
believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the top online hotel
service provider in Europe.  

55    

Table of
Contents   

As
our international operations have become significant contributors to our
results and international hotel bookings have become of increased importance to
our earnings, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in certain
of our operating expenses and other financial metrics.  For example, because our international
operations utilize online search and affiliate marketing as the principal means
of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has
increased significantly over recent years, a trend we expect to continue
throughout 2010.  In addition, and as
discussed in more detail below, we have seen the effects of seasonal
fluctuations on our operating results change as a result of different revenue
recognition policies that apply to our price-disclosed services (including our
international hotel service) as compared to our  Name Your Own Price       services.  

Another impact of the growing importance that
our international operations represent to our business is our increased
exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. 
Because we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our
business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S.
Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as
the financial results of our international operations are translated from local
currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S.
Dollars upon consolidation.  Our
international operations contributed approximately $852.0 million to our
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, which compares to $619.8
million for the year ended December 31, 2008 (year-over-year growth of
approximately 37%).  Revenue attributable
to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, however, by
approximately 46% in the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the
same period in 2008.  Recently, the U.S.
Dollar has strengthened against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. In
general, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against the local currency, the
translation of our foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in
decreased net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net
income.  

From
time to time, we enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of
short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results.  Such derivative instruments are short term in
nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuation that could impact
our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit.  See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts.  

Domestic Trends   .    Competition in domestic online travel
remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new
promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive
advantage.  In June 2007, we
eliminated processing fees for our price-disclosed airline ticket service, and
in April 2008, we reduced processing fees for our domestic price-disclosed
merchant hotel room service.  As a
result, since those dates, we had a pricing advantage against other major
online travel agents with respect to these travel services.  Starting in March 2009, Expedia also eliminated
air booking fees.  Later in March 2009,
Travelocity matched the Expedia change and in April 2009, Orbitz
followed.  As a result, we no longer have
the price advantage that we have had against our major competitors on
price-disclosed airline tickets since June 2007.  Similarly, in April 2009, each of
Expedia and Orbitz reduced booking fees on hotel room reservations, and we therefore no longer have a price advantage over
those companies on price-disclosed merchant hotel room reservations.  In addition, in May 2009, Orbitz
announced a price guarantee program under which a customer who books a prepaid
hotel stay will receive money back from Orbitz if another Orbitz customer books
the exact same stay in terms of room type, travel dates and number of
travelers.  In addition, in October 2009,
Travelocity announced the waiver of its cancellation and change fees for hotel
and vacation packages, as well as an expanded hotel guarantee, under which
consumers who book a hotel room and then find a lower published rate for the
same room anytime before the day of check-in are eligible to receive a refund
of the difference.  Our business may be
adversely impacted as a result of no longer having a price advantage over our
direct competitors in the U.S., as seen in the fourth quarter 2009, where
domestic gross bookings growth decelerated from the previous quarter, and we
may be adversely impacted by future promotional initiatives by our competitors.  

While demand for online travel services continues to experience
annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party
distributors, like priceline.com, has declined over the last several years and
that the growth of the domestic online market for travel services has
slowed.  We believe the decline in market
share is attributable, in part, to (1) a concerted initiative by travel
suppliers to direct   

56    

Table of Contents   

customers
to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and
establish more direct control over their pricing, and (2) a price advantage
in that the suppliers generally do not charge a processing fee.  However, with the recent elimination and
reduction of processing and other fees by all of the major online travel
companies, we believe that the domestic market share of third party distributors
has stabilized and potentially increased during 2009.  

In
addition, recent decreases in domestic airline capacity, the threat of carrier
bankruptcies and the emerging prospect of industry consolidation, as evidenced
by the recent merger of Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, could further
reduce the amount of airline tickets available to us.  Furthermore,
we have recently observed a year-over-year decline in passenger traffic and
airfares across the airline industry, which we believe is principally due to
the worldwide recession and higher oil prices in 2008.  Decreases in capacity and lower
traveler demand negatively impact our domestic air business, which in turn has
negative repercussions on our domestic hotel and rental car businesses.  Our rental car business has been further
impacted by recent decreases in rental car fleets, which have led to increases
in retail rental car rates.  Higher
retail rental car rates negatively impact demand for our retail rental car
service, while decreases in rental car availability negatively impact our  Name Your Own Price       rental car
service.  In January 2010, Toyota
recalled over 8 million vehicles due to faulty accelerator pedals, leading to
further strain on rental car companies  fleets and increased retail rental car
rates.  Despite these challenges, we continue
to believe that the market for domestic online travel services is an attractive
market with continued opportunity for growth.  

We also rely on fees paid to
us by global distribution systems, or GDSs, for travel bookings made in the
U.S. through GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and operating income.  Connectivity to a GDS does not guarantee us
access to the content of a travel supplier such as an airline or hotel company.  We have agreements with a number of suppliers
to obtain access to content, and are in continuing discussions with others to
obtain similar access.  If we were denied
access to a suppliers  full content or had to incur service fees in order to
access or book such content, our results could suffer.  

We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to
maintain profitability, primarily from our hotel business, to continue to
promote the Booking.com brand internationally, the priceline.com brand in the
United States, the Agoda brand in Asia and, over time, to offer other travel
services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond
our control, such as worldwide recession, terrorist
attacks, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such
as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional
hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by
regulatory authorities, travel related accidents, unusual weather patterns,
including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes, or the
withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could
adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability
to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above.  For example, in
2008, civil unrest in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business, negatively
impacted booking volumes at the time, and future civil or political unrest
would further disrupt Agoda s business. 
We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology
and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve operating
results.  We also intend to broaden the
scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from
time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our
goal is to improve volume and sustain gross margins in an effort to maintain
profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction
of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we cannot provide
assurance that we will sustain revenue growth and profitability.  

Seasonality   .  Our  Name Your Own Price       services are generally non-refundable in
nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is
generated.  However, we recognize revenue
generated from our retail hotel services, including our international
operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  As a result, a meaningful amount of retail
hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve
their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized as revenue until
future quarters. From a cost perspective, however, we expense the substantial
majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically
in the quarter in which   

57    

Table of Contents   

bookings are generated.  Therefore,
if our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results
to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are
based upon the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described
in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Certain of our accounting policies and
estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of
operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as
a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently
uncertain. In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to
determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of
certain estimates.  On an on-going basis,
we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described
below.  Those estimates are based on,
among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our
observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions
that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Our actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  Our significant accounting policies that
involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the
following:  

Deferred
Tax Valuation Allowance   .  We
periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets,
and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation
allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized.  We consider many factors when assessing the
likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our
recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of
future income, the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting
purposes, and other relevant factors. 
Based on management s assessment of positive and negative evidence, we
recorded non-cash tax benefits in 2009 and 2007 of $183.3 million and $47.9
million, respectively, resulting from the reversal of a portion of our
valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. 
The deferred tax asset at December 31, 2009 amounted to $319.7
million.  The valuation allowance may
need to be adjusted in the future if facts and circumstances change, causing a
reassessment of the amount of deferred tax assets more likely than not to be
realized.  

Accounting
for State and Local  Hotel Occupancy  Taxes   .    As discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements,   we are currently involved in approximately
forty-five lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over
issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state
and local sales tax) and our  merchant  hotel business.  In addition, over fifty municipalities or
counties, and at least two states, have initiated audit proceedings, issued
proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel
occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax).  Additional state and local jurisdictions are
likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy
and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect
such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. 
Historically, we have not collected hotel occupancy or other taxes on
the gross profit earned from  merchant  hotel transactions;  

58    

Table of Contents   

however, starting in September 2009, we are
collecting and remitting occupancy tax in accordance with an amended ordinance
for the City of New York.  The ultimate
resolution of these matters in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this
time.  We have established a reserve for
potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes for
prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and
in light of all current facts and circumstances.  We accrue for legal contingencies where it is
probable that a loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated;
our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not
reflected in the amount of the reserve.  
A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past
and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and
amount of gross profit represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a
claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement
and changes in relevant statutes.  The
ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the liabilities
recorded.  

Stock-Based
Compensation.     We record stock-based compensation
expense for equity-based awards over the recipient s service period based upon
the grant date fair value of the award. 
A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance
 contingency ) which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to
the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances,
if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes
to zero, at the end of the performance period. 
The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are
typically three years.  We record
stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon
our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period
(i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets).  We periodically adjust the cumulative
stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these
performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted
operating results.  Our actual
performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our
estimates.  

We record stock-based
compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures.  In determining the estimated forfeiture
rates, we periodically review actual and projected forfeitures.  To the extent that actual or projected
forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a
cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised.  

Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts.     Booking.com
earns agency commissions from hotel transactions and we are therefore subject
to potential write-offs.  We provide an
allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the age of the commission
receivables, taking into consideration past experience and current trends.  In addition, because we are the merchant of
record in  Name Your Own Price         transactions, we may be held liable for
accepting fraudulent credit cards on our website as well as other payment
disputes with our customers.  We are also
held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail
transactions when we do not act as merchant of record.  Accordingly, we calculate and record an
allowance for the resulting credit card charge-backs based upon past experience
and current trends.  

Valuation
of Goodwill   .  We have
recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired, principally including
Booking.com.  Goodwill is reviewed at
least annually for impairment using appropriate valuation techniques.  In the event that future circumstances
indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an impairment charge
would be recorded.  

59    

Table of Contents   

Valuation
of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles.     We evaluate
whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying
amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired.  The significant factors that are considered
that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies,
market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative
to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or
economic trends.  In evaluating an asset
for possible impairment, management estimates that asset s future undiscounted
cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is
recoverable.  If it is determined that
the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair
value of the asset compared to its carrying value.  The fair value represents the projected
discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life.   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
Accounting Standards Codification    

In
June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
guidance on its Accounting Standards Codification  ( ASC  or  Codification )
and the hierarchy of U.S. GAAP. 
Effective July 1, 2009, the FASB launched the Codification which
became effective for all interim and annual periods ending after September 15,
2009.  Now effective, the Codification is
the single official source of authoritative, nongovernmental U.S. GAAP and
supersedes all previously issued non-SEC accounting and reporting standards.  The Codification as launched did not change
U.S. GAAP but organized the accounting literature by topical areas in a
user-friendly online research system. 
The Codification also includes relevant SEC guidance organized using the
same topical structure.  Specific changes
that modify the Codification are communicated by the FASB by the issuance of an
Accounting Standard Update ( ASU ). 
During 2009 and early 2010, the FASB issued several ASUs that mostly
entailed technical corrections to existing guidance or affected guidance to
specialized industries or entities.  With
the exception of the 2010 accounting update that requires additional disclosure
on fair value measurements, none of the ASUs to date have had an impact on us.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
Noncontrolling Interests and Convertible Debt Settled in Cash   

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard dealing with
noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as minority interests) that
changed the accounting and reporting for noncontrolling interests in the
consolidated financial statements.  In
connection with our acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005 and
Booking.com Limited in September 2004, key managers of these companies
purchased shares of priceline.com International.  In addition, these key managers were granted
restricted stock and restricted stock units in priceline.com International
shares.  In September 2008, we
repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares underlying the
noncontrolling interests so the adoption of this standard did not impact the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008.  This standard is effective for us on a
prospective basis, except for presentation and disclosure requirements that are
applied retrospectively.  Concurrent with
the adoption of the new accounting standard for noncontrolling interests, the
accounting guidance required that redeemable noncontrolling interests be stated
at fair value, with fair value adjustments recorded to equity, and reported as
mezzanine (temporary equity) on the balance sheet on a retrospective basis for
presentation purposes. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
the impact of adopting this standard.  

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard that impacts the
accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash.  This new standard requires cash settled
convertible debt, such as our convertible senior notes, to be separated into
debt and equity components at issuance and a   

60    

Table of Contents   

value
assigned to each.  The value assigned to
debt is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar bond
without the conversion feature.  The
difference between the bond cash proceeds and this fair value, representing the
value assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount and
amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond.  In addition, if our convertible debt is
redeemed or converted prior to maturity and the fair value of the debt
component immediately prior to extinguishment is different from the carrying
value, a gain or loss on extinguishment is recognized.  This standard also requires that deferred
financing costs be allocated between debt (amortized to interest expense using
the effective interest method) and equity based on the allocations between debt
and equity at debt issuance.  Although
this standard has no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it
requires us to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the
debt discount is amortized. This standard requires retrospective
application.  See Notes 2 and 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of adopting this standard.  

Other Recent Accounting
Pronouncements   

In
November 2008, the FASB ratified a proposal that clarifies the accounting
for certain transactions and impairment considerations involving entities that
acquire or hold investments accounted for under the equity method.  This accounting guidance is applied on a
prospective basis.  The adoption of this
standard on January 1, 2009 did not have an impact on the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

On January 1, 2009, we adopted a revised accounting
standard associated with the accounting for assets acquired and liabilities
assumed in a business combination.  This
revised standard requires assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual
contingencies and contingent consideration in a business combination to be
recognized at fair value, at the acquisition date, if (1) the
acquisition-date fair value can be determined during the twelve month
measurement period or (2) during the twelve month measurement period it is
probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the
acquisition date and the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated.  Subsequent changes to the estimated fair
value of contingent consideration are reflected in earnings until the contingency
is settled.  Also, contingent consideration
arrangements of an acquiree assumed by the acquirer in a business combination
will be recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition, with subsequent
changes in fair value recognized in earnings. 
The revised standard requires additional disclosures about recognized
and unrecognized contingencies.  This
standard is effective for acquisitions made after December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard will change our
accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective basis.  

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard which provides new
disclosure requirements for an entity s derivative and hedging activities.  See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for disclosures about our derivative instruments.  

On
January 1, 2008, we adopted certain provisions of a new accounting
standard which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
value in generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. 
On January 1, 2009, we adopted the remaining provisions of this
accounting standard as it relates to nonfinancial assets and liabilities that
are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis.  In April 2009, the FASB issued further clarification
for determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset
or liability had significantly decreased and for identifying transaction that
were not conducted in an orderly market. 
This clarification of the accounting standard is effective for interim
reporting periods after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for
periods ending after March 15, 2009. We adopted this clarification of the
standard effective for the three months ended March 31, 2009.  The adoption of the provisions of this new
standard did not materially impact the Consolidated Financial Statements.  In January 2010, the accounting
requirements for fair value measurements were modified to provide disclosures
about transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2, separate detail of activity
relating to Level 3 measurements, and disclosure by class of asset and
liability as opposed to disclosure by the major category of assets and
liabilities, which was often interpreted as a line item on the balance sheet.  The accounting guidance also clarifies for
Level 2 and Level 3 measurements that a description of the valuation techniques
and inputs used to   

61    

Table of Contents   

measure
fair value and a discussion of changes in valuation techniques or inputs, if
any, is required for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value
measurements.  If the guidance issued in January 2010
is not adopted early, it is effective for the first reporting period, including
interim periods, beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the
requirement to provide detail activity of Level 3 measurements, which will be
effective beginning after December 15, 2010.  We will adopt this 2010 guidance effective
with the three months ended March 31, 2010. 
See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on
fair value measurements.  

In
April 2009, the FASB extended the fair value disclosures currently
required on an annual basis for financial instruments to interim reporting
periods.  This accounting literature also
requires entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to
estimate the fair value of financial instruments on an interim and annual basis
and to highlight any changes from prior periods.  These new disclosures are effective for
interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption
permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009.  We adopted the new disclosure requirements
effective for the three months ended March 31, 2009.  See Notes 6 and 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for information on the fair value of financial
instruments.  

In
April 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to other-than-temporary
impairments that applies only to debt securities and shifts the focus from an
entity s intent and ability to hold until recovery to its intent to sell.  If an entity intends to sell, or it is more-likely-than
not that it will have to sell, impaired securities before recovery, the
adjustment to fair value would be recognized through earnings.  If an entity does not intend to sell the
impaired debt security but it is probable that the entity will not collect all
amounts due, then only the impairment due to credit would be recognized in
earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in
equity, in other comprehensive income but separately disclosed from other gains
or losses on available-for-sale securities. 
The noncredit portion of the impairment for held-to-maturity securities
will be amortized prospectively over the remaining life of the security.  This change in accounting is effective for
interim reporting ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption
permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009, and applies to existing
and new investments held as of the beginning of the interim period in which it
is adopted.  The adoption of this
standard, effective with the three months ended March 31, 2009, did not
have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In
May 2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which requires
entities to state in their periodic filings the date through which subsequent
events were evaluated (either when statements were  issued  or  available to be
issued ).  The date when  issued  is when
the financial statements are widely distributed to shareholders or other users
for general use in a format that complies with U.S. GAAP.  As a public entity, we are required to make
this evaluation through the date that the financial statements are issued.  This new standard is effective for interim or
annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. 
We adopted this standard for the six months ended June 30, 2009.  

In
July 2009, the FASB ratified a proposal which deals with the accounting
for own share lending agreements contemplated with the issuance of convertible
debt.  This new accounting guidance
applies to equity classified arrangements and requires: (1) the share
lender to record the fair value of the arrangement as issuance cost and to
amortize the cost to interest expense over the duration of the arrangement; (2) to
record a loss equal to the fair value of the shares if it is probable that the
shares will not be returned or the share borrower will be unable to pay for the
unreturned shares; and (3) to exclude from earnings per share calculations
the loaned shares, unless there is an actual default.  Additionally, the accounting requirements
include certain disclosures about the arrangement.  This accounting treatment is effective for
new arrangements entered into in periods beginning on or after July 15,
2009.  For all other share-lending
arrangements, this accounting requirement is effective for fiscal years and
interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15,
2009, with retrospective application for arrangements outstanding on the
effective date.  Since we do not
currently have any share lending arrangements, this accounting guidance did not
have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

62    

Table of Contents   

In
April 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining the useful life of
acquired intangible assets.  The new
guidance removed the requirement to consider whether an intangible asset can be
renewed without substantial cost of material modifications to the existing
terms and conditions and, instead, required an entity to consider its own
historical experience in renewing similar arrangements.  This accounting guidance also expanded
disclosure related to the determination of intangible asset useful lives.  The accounting guidance is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2008, and may impact any intangible assets we acquire in future transactions.  

In
June 2008, the FASB ratified a proposal that addressed the determination
of whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own
stock.  This accounting guidance is
effective for years beginning after December 15, 2008.  The adoption of this standard on January 1,
2009 did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In
December 2008, accounting guidance was issued for accounting for defensive
intangible assets.  A defensive asset is
an acquired intangible asset where the acquirer has no intention of using, or
intends to discontinue use of, the intangible asset but holds it to prevent
competitors from obtaining any benefit from it. 
The acquired defensive asset is treated as a separate unit of accounting
and the useful life assigned is based on the period during which the asset will
diminish in value.  This accounting
guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15,
2008.  The adoption of this standard may
change our accounting treatment for future business combinations.  

In
May 2008, the FASB issued an accounting standard which identified the
sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles
to be used in the preparation of financial statements of non-governmental
entities that are presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.  This standard was
effective November 15, 2008.  The
adoption of this statement did not result in a change in our current practices.  

In
February 2007, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which permitted
companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value.  This standard
required unrealized gains and losses to be included in earnings for items
reported under the fair value option. 
This standard was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2007. 
We did not elect the fair value option.  

Results of Operations   

Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared to Year Ended December 31,
2008   

Operating and Statistical Metrics    

Our financial results are driven by certain
operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel
services.  Specifically, reservations of
hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of
units purchased by our customers.  Gross
bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar
value inclusive of taxes and fees of all travel services booked by our customers,
and is widely used in the travel business. 
International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated
principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross
bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross
bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by,
operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic
operations, in each case without regard to the location of the travel or the
customer purchasing the travel.  

63    

Table of
Contents   

Gross
bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and
airline tickets sold through our domestic and international operations for the
years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (numbers may not
total due to rounding):  

Gross
bookings increased by 25.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared
to the same period in 2008, principally due to 49.3% growth in hotel room night
reservations, partially offset by year-over-year declines in average selling
prices for our hotel and airline ticket services in most markets.  The 31.2% increase in international gross
bookings was attributable to growth in international hotel room night
reservations for our Booking.com and Agoda businesses.  Domestic gross bookings increased by 18.3%
for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008,
primarily due to growth in  Name Your Own
Price       hotel room night reservations, price-disclosed
airline tickets, merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and price-disclosed rental car days,
partially offset by a decline in  Name Your
Own Price       airline tickets.  

Gross
bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets
sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding):  

Agency
gross bookings increased 25.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009,
compared to the same period in 2008, due to growth in the sale of Booking.com
hotel room night reservations, price-disclosed airline tickets and
price-disclosed rental car days. 
Merchant gross bookings increased 27.5% for the year ended December 31,
2009, compared to the same period in 2008, due to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room night reservations, Agoda merchant price-disclosed hotel room
night reservations and domestic merchant price-disclosed hotel room
night reservations, partially offset by a decline in  Name Your Own Price       airline
tickets.  

Hotel
room night reservations sold increased by 49.3% for the year ended December 31,
2009, over the same period in 2008, due primarily to an increase in the sale of
Booking.com agency room night reservations, as well as an increase in the sale
of  Name Your Own Price       room night reservations and Agoda and domestic
price-disclosed room night reservations.  

64    

Table of
Contents   

Rental
car days sold increased by 12.4% for the year ended December 31, 2009,
over the same period in 2008, due primarily to an increase in the sale of
price-disclosed rental car days, as well as an increase in  Name Your Own Price       rental car days.  

Airline
tickets sold increased by 21.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009, over
the same period in 2008, due to an increase in the sale of price-disclosed
airline tickets, partially offset by a decline in  Name Your Own Price       airline
tickets.  

Revenues    

Merchant revenues are derived from
transactions where we are the merchant of record and, among other things,
select suppliers and determine the price we will accept from the customer.  Merchant revenues include (1) transaction
revenues representing the selling price of  Name
Your Own Price       hotel room reservations, rental
cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction
revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged
by suppliers in connection with the hotel room reservations provided through
our merchant price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees
charged in connection with the sale of  Name
Your Own Price       airline tickets, hotel room
reservations and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations;
and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to
certain of the services listed above.  

Agency revenues are derived from travel
related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the
prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include
travel commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees
related to certain of the services listed above and are reported at the net
amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. In June 2007, we
eliminated processing fees on the priceline.com price-disclosed airline ticket
service.  

Other revenues
are derived primarily from advertising on our websites.  

We
continue to experience a shift in the mix of our travel business from a
business historically focused exclusively on the sale of domestic point-of-sale
travel services to a business that includes significant sales of international
point-of-sale hotel services, a significant majority of which are currently
generated in Europe.  Because our
domestic services include merchant  Name Your
Own Price       travel
services, which are reported on a  gross  basis, while both our domestic and
international retail travel services are primarily recorded on a  net  basis,
revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale
of  Name Your Own Price       and retail travel services and, consequently,
gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth
in our business.  Our international
operations contributed approximately $852.0 million to our revenues for the
year ended December 31, 2009, which compares to $619.8 million for the
same period in 2008.  Revenue
attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency
basis, by approximately 46% in the year ended December 31, 2009, compared
to the same period in 2008.  

65    

Table of Contents   

Merchant Revenues   

Merchant
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased 18.8%, compared to
the same period in 2008, primarily due to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room
night reservations and rental car days, and Agoda and domestic merchant
price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a decline in
 Name Your Own Price       airline tickets.  

Agency Revenues   

Agency revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2009 increased 33.8% compared to the same period in
2008, primarily as a result of growth in our international operations.  

Other Revenues   

Other revenues during the
year ended December 31, 2009 consisted primarily of advertising.  Other revenues for the year ended December 31,
2009 increased 24.6% compared to the same period in 2008, primarily as a result
of higher online advertising revenues and increased traffic.  

Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit    

Cost of Revenues   

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, cost of revenues consisted primarily of:
(1) the cost of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room reservations from our suppliers,
net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of  Name
Your Own Price       rental cars from our suppliers, net of
applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of  Name
Your Own Price       airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the
federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges
imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets.  Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31,
2009 increased by 16.0%, compared to the same period in 2008, due primarily to
the increase in merchant revenue discussed above.  Merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues in
the U.S. and at Agoda are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid
to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for
merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues. 
Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues
decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed hotel
revenues, which are recorded on a  net  basis.  

Agency
revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less
amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency
revenues.  

66    

Table
of Contents   

Gross Profit   

Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased
by 31.9% compared to the same period in 2008, primarily as a result of
increased revenue discussed above.  Total
gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased
during the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in
2008, because  Name Your Own Price       revenues, which are recorded  gross  with a
corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total
revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed revenues which are primarily
recorded  net  with no corresponding cost of revenues.  Because  Name
Your Own Price       transactions are reported  gross  and retail
transactions are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, we believe that gross
profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our
business.  Our international operations
accounted for approximately $848.6 million of our gross profit for the year
ended December 31, 2009, which compares to approximately $615.8 million
for the same period in 2008.  Gross
profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local
currency basis, by approximately 46% in the year ended December 31, 2009,
compared to the same period in 2008.  

Operating Expenses    

Advertising    

Offline
advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated
with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost
for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, print and
radio advertising.  For the year ended December 31,
2009, offline advertising expenses decreased compared to the same period in
2008 due to lower production and creative talent costs, partially offset by
increased television advertising.  Online
advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine
keyword purchases; (2) affiliate programs; (3) banner and pop-up
advertisements; and (4) e-mail campaigns. 
For the year ended December 31, 2009, online advertising expenses
increased over the same period in 2008, primarily due to an increase in online
advertising expenses to support increased price-disclosed agency hotel room
night reservations booked by Booking.com as well as increased U.S. travel
bookings, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange
rates.  Our international operations rely
primarily on online advertising, in particular keyword purchases and payments
to affiliate advertisers, to support their businesses.  

67    

Table
of Contents   

Sales and Marketing   

Sales
and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing
fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-party
service providers that operate the call centers for our priceline.com business;
(3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for
bad debt primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables.  For
the   year ended December 31  , 2009, sales and marketing
expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same
period in 2008, primarily   due to increased credit card processing fees
and call center costs associated with increased gross booking volumes,
partially offset by decreased bad debt provision and the impact of foreign
currency exchange rates.  The decrease in
bad debt provision in 2009 was due to improved collection rates for agency
commissions from hotels and the stabilization of economic conditions in general,
and the hotel sector in particular as compared to 2008.  Credit card processing fees in 2009 reflect a
benefit of $1.0 million related to a litigation settlement with certain credit
card companies.  

Personnel   

Personnel expenses consist
of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, taxes, employee
health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31,
2009, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2008, due primarily
to increased compensation expenses associated with headcount growth, partially
offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.  Stock-based compensation expense was
approximately $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $40.5
million for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

General
and Administrative   

68    

Table
of Contents   

General
and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside
professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel
related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and
administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2009,
over the same period in 2008, due to additional fees for outside professionals,
including litigation expenses primarily related to hotel occupancy and other
tax proceedings, and increased occupancy expenses associated with new
Booking.com offices, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency
exchange rates.  Additionally, we recorded
a charge in the amount of $3.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2009 related to a judgment in a lawsuit involving hotel occupancy taxes (see
Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details).  

Information Technology   

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system
maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs
relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data
communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites;
and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31,
2009, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same
period in 2008 was primarily associated with increased information technology
expenses related to our international operations, partially offset by a
decrease in information technology expenses related to our domestic operations.  

Depreciation and Amortization   

Depreciation
and amortization expenses consist of:  (1) amortization
of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of
internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer
equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office
equipment and furniture and fixtures. 
For the year ended December 31, 2009, depreciation and amortization
expense decreased from the same period in 2008 by $3.6 million, primarily due
to fully amortizing certain intangibles during the year ended December 31,
2008.  

69    

Table
of Contents   

Other Income (Expense)    

For
the year ended December 31, 2009, interest income on cash and marketable
securities decreased over the same period in 2008, principally due to lower
prevailing interest rates.  Interest
expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the
same period in 2008, primarily due to convertible debt conversions.  See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further details on the effect on interest expense of adopting a
new accounting standard that impacts the accounting for convertible debt that
may be settled in cash.   Foreign currency
transactions and other  includes foreign exchange losses of $2.7 million for
the year ended December 31, 2009 and foreign exchange gains of $4.0
million for the year ended December 31, 2008, related to foreign exchange
derivative contracts.  Foreign exchange
losses of $2.9 million on transactions were recorded for the year ended December 31,
2009, compared to $0.3 million of gains for the year ended December 31,
2008.  A loss of $1.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 2009, resulted from convertible debt conversions,
compared to a gain of $6.0 million for the year ended December 31,
2008.  In addition,  Foreign currency
transactions and other  includes a loss of $0.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2008 to reflect a permanent impairment in the value of a corporate note
included in long-term investments.  See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the
adjustments to other income (expense) for the year ended December 31,
2008.  

Income Taxes    

Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008 was (10.7)% and 32.7%, respectively.  Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31,
2009 differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of
35%, principally because it includes tax benefits of $183.3 million resulting
from the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax
assets related to net operating loss carryfowards.  

70    

Table of Contents   

Other items contributing to the difference
between our effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008 include lower foreign tax rates and the foreign
tax benefit of interest expense on intercompany debt, partially offset by state
income taxes.  

Due
to our significant NOLs, we do not expect to pay significant cash taxes on our
U.S. federal taxable income for the foreseeable future.  We expect to make cash payments for foreign
taxes, U.S. state income taxes and U.S. federal alternative minimum tax.  

See
Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the non-cash
income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the adjustment to income
tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Equity in Income (Loss) of Investees    

Equity
in income (loss) of investees for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
2008 represented our pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s net results. In July 2009, pricelinemortgage.com was
dissolved, and we received $8.9 million in cash for our 49% equity investment
in pricelinemortgage.com. We do not expect the dissolution of our investment in
pricelinemortgage.com to materially impact future periods.  

Noncontrolling Interests    

Noncontrolling
interests for the year ended December 31, 2008, represented income
associated with the ownership of priceline.com International that was held by
former shareholders of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, including
certain European based managers of that business.  In September 2008, we repurchased all of
the remaining outstanding shares of priceline.com International and, as a
result, there are no longer any noncontrolling interests in priceline.com
International.  See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  

71    

Table of
Contents   

Results of Operations   

Year Ended December 31, 2008 compared to Year Ended December 31,
2007   

Operating and Statistical Metrics    

Our
financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the
booking activity generated by our travel services.  Specifically, reservations of hotel room
nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased
by our customers.  Gross bookings is an
operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value inclusive
of taxes and fees of all travel services booked by our customers, and is widely
used in the travel business. 
International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated
principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross
bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross
bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by,
operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic
operations, in each case without regard to the location of the travel or the
customer purchasing the travel.  

Gross
bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets
sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding):  

Gross
bookings resulting from hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets
sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding):  

Gross
bookings increased by 53.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared
to the same period in 2007.  The increase
was primarily attributable to 61.4% growth in our international gross bookings,
virtually all of which relates to retail hotel room night sales (including the
$316 million favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates).  Domestic gross bookings increased by 43.0%,
primarily due to growth in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets (due in
part to the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007),  Name Your Own Price       hotel room nights, merchant price-disclosed
hotel room nights and  Name Your Own Price       airline tickets.  

Agency
gross bookings increased 60.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008,
compared to the same period in 2007, due to growth in Booking.com hotel
operations and in the sale of price-disclosed airline tickets due in part to
the elimination of booking fees in June of 2007.  Merchant gross bookings increased 33.5% for
the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same period in 2007, due
to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own
Price       hotel
room nights, the inclusion of room nights sold by  

72    

Table of
Contents   

Agoda,
which we acquired in November 2007, domestic merchant price-disclosed
hotel room nights and  Name Your Own Price       airline tickets.  Agoda gross bookings amounted to $118.7
million for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Hotel
room nights sold increased by 46.9% for the year ended December 31, 2008,
over the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in the sale of
Booking.com agency room nights, an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       room nights, the inclusion of merchant room
nights sold by Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007, and an increase
in the sale of domestic, price-disclosed room nights.  

Rental
car days sold increased by 15.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008,
over the same period in 2007, due to increases in sales of both our
price-disclosed and  Name Your Own Price       rental car services.  

Airline
tickets sold increased by 65.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008, over
the same period in 2007, due primarily to an increase in the sale of price-disclosed
airline tickets due in part to our elimination of processing fees in June 2007
and increased marketing support.  

Revenues    

Merchant revenues are derived from
transactions where we are the merchant of record and, among other things,
select suppliers and determine the price we will accept from the customer.  Merchant revenues include (1) transaction
revenues representing the selling price of  Name
Your Own Price       hotel rooms, rental cars and
airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction
revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged
by suppliers in connection with the hotel rooms provided through our merchant
price-disclosed hotel service; (3) customer processing fees charged in
connection with the sale of  Name Your Own
Price       airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars
and merchant price-disclosed hotels; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS
reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  

Agency revenues are derived from travel
related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the
prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include
travel commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees
related to certain of the services listed above and are reported at the net
amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. In June 2007, we
eliminated processing fees on the priceline.com price-disclosed airline ticket
service.  

Other revenues are derived
primarily from advertising on our websites.  

We
continue to experience a shift in the mix of our travel business from a
business historically focused exclusively on the sale of domestic point-of-sale
travel services to a business that includes significant sales of international
point-of-sale hotel services, a significant majority of which are currently
generated in Europe.  Because our
domestic services include merchant  Name Your
Own Price       travel
services, which are reported on a  gross  basis, while both our domestic and
international retail travel services are primarily recorded on a  net  basis,
revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of the sale
of merchant and retail travel services and, consequently, gross profit has
become an  

73    

Table of
Contents   

increasingly
important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  Our international operations contributed
approximately $619.8 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31,
2008, which compares to $372.6 million for the same period in 2007.  Approximately $11.3 million of this increase
is due to favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007,
accounted for approximately $17.0 million of the revenue attributable to our
international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

Merchant Revenues   

Merchant
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 21.5% compared to
the same period in 2007, primarily due to an increase in the sale of  Name Your Own Price       hotel room
nights and airline tickets and the inclusion of revenues generated by Agoda,
which we acquired in November 2007. 
In addition, in the year ended December 31, 2007, merchant revenues
were positively impacted by an excise tax refund of $18.6 million (see Note 18
to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
Our international operations contributed approximately $21.3 million to
our merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, which compares
to $5.6 million for the same period in 2007. 
Agoda contributed approximately $17.0 million of the merchant revenue
attributable to our international operations for the year ended December 31,
2008.  

Agency Revenues   

Agency
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 62.9% compared to
the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of growth in our international
operations, which contributed approximately $598 million of agency revenue for
the year ended December 31, 2008, and approximately $367 million of agency
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. Approximately $11.7 million
of this increase is due to favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  

Other Revenues   

Other
revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008 consisted primarily of
advertising revenues.  Other revenues for
the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 114.1%, compared to the same
period in 2007, primarily as a result of higher online advertising revenues due
primarily to new advertising partner relationships added during 2007, increased
traffic due in part to the elimination of booking fees on price-disclosed
airline tickets in June 2007, and the inclusion of revenue generated by an
online advertising company acquired in December 2007.  

74    

Table of
Contents   

Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit    

Cost of Revenues   

For
the year ended December 31, 2008, cost of revenues consisted primarily of:
(1) the cost of  Name Your Own Price       hotel rooms from our suppliers, net of
applicable taxes, (2) the cost of  Name
Your Own Price       airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the
federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges
imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets; and (3) the cost
of  Name Your Own Price       rental cars from our suppliers, net of
applicable taxes.  Cost of revenues for
the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 20.6%, compared to the same
period in 2007, due primarily to the increase in merchant revenue discussed
above.  Merchant price-disclosed hotel
revenues in the U.S. and at Agoda are recorded in merchant revenues net of the
amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of
revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues.  

Agency
revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less
amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency
revenues.  

Gross Profit   

Total
gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by 49.5%
compared to the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of increased revenue
discussed above.  Total gross margin
(gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the
year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the same period in 2007, because
 Name Your Own Price       transactions, whose revenues are recorded
 gross  with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage
of transactions compared to retail, price-disclosed transactions which are
primarily recorded  net  with no corresponding cost of revenues.  In the year ended December 31, 2007,
gross profit and gross margin were also positively impacted by the $18.6
million excise tax refund recorded in merchant revenue in the year ended December 31,
2007 (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Because  Name
Your Own Price       transactions are reported  gross  and retail
transactions are primarily recorded on a  net  basis, we believe that gross
profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our
business.  Our international operations
accounted for approximately $616 million of our gross profit for the year ended
December 31, 2008, which compares to $369.0 million for the same period in
2007.  Approximately $11.6 million of
this increase is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.   Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007,
accounted for approximately $17.0 million of the gross profit attributable to
our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

75    

Table of
Contents   

Operating Expenses    

Advertising    

Offline
advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated
with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost
for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, radio and
print advertising.  For the year ended December 31,
2008, offline advertising expenses were higher than in the same period in 2007
primarily as a result of increased costs related to creative talent, television
production and increased print and radio advertising, partially offset by
decreased television advertising during the period.  Online advertising expenses primarily consist
of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate
programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail
campaigns.  For the year ended December 31,
2008, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2007,
primarily due to an increase in online advertising expenses to support
significantly increased price-disclosed agency hotel room nights booked by
Booking.com as well as increased U.S. travel bookings.  The increase also reflects the inclusion of
online advertising expenses related to price-disclosed merchant hotel room
nights booked through Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007.  Both Booking.com and Agoda rely primarily on
online advertising, in particular keyword purchases and payments to affiliate
advertisers, to support their businesses.  

Sales and Marketing   

Sales
and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing
fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-party
service providers that operate the call centers for our priceline.com business;
(3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for
bad debt primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables.  For
the year ended December 31, 2008, sales and marketing expenses, which are
substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2007,
primarily due to (1) increased gross booking volumes; (2) increased
bad debt provision due to slower payment of agency commissions by hotels and to
reflect the potential for increased losses resulting from the   worldwide recession   and the related impact on the financial health of
our hotel partners; (3) increased credit card chargeback activity
(including chargeback activity aggregating approximately $1.5 million in the
first six months of 2008 associated with the bankruptcies of two of our airline
suppliers); and (4) the inclusion of sales and marketing expenses related
to Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007 and which has experienced
higher customer chargeback activity than our other merchant services.  

76    

Table of
Contents   

Personnel   

Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including
salaries, bonuses, taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based
compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2008, personnel expenses
increased over the same period in 2007, primarily due to increased stock-based
compensation expense, personnel expenses associated with head count growth of
Booking.com, the acquisition of Agoda in November 2007, and increased
employee performance bonus expense. 
Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $40.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 2008 and $16.3 million, for the year ended December 31,
2007.  Stock-based compensation expense increased over the year ended December 31,
2008, as compared to the same period in 2007, due to headcount increases,
higher stock prices at grant date and increases in the estimated probable
number of shares to be issued upon completion of specified performance periods
for our performance-based grants (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements).  

General and Administrative   

General
and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside
professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel
related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and
administrative expenses decreased during the year ended December 31, 2008,
over the same period in 2007, due to a $55.4 million expense related to a
litigation settlement in 2007.  Excluding
the litigation settlement, general and administrative expenses increased during
the year ended December 31, 2008, over the same period during 2007, due to
additional fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses and
expenses related to the evaluation of acquisition opportunities, increased
occupancy expenses associated with new Booking.com offices, and the inclusion
of general and administrative expenses related to Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007.  

77    

Table of
Contents   

Information Technology   

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system
maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs
relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data
communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites;
and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31,
2008, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same
period in 2007 was primarily associated with the growth of Booking.com, and the
inclusion of Agoda, which we acquired in November 2007.  

Depreciation and Amortization   

Depreciation
and amortization expenses consist of:  (1) amortization
of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of
internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer
equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office
equipment and furniture and fixtures. 
For the year ended December 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization
expense increased from the same period in 2007, primarily as a result of
increased amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives,
depreciation and amortization related to investment increases in Booking.com,
and the inclusion of depreciation and amortization related to Agoda, which we
acquired in November 2007.  

Other Income (Expense)    

78    

Table of Contents   

For
the year ended December 31, 2008, interest income on cash and marketable
securities decreased over the same period in 2007, due to lower prevailing
interest rates and investments in higher quality, lower yielding
securities.  In addition, interest income
for the year ended December 31, 2007 included approximately $3.3 million
of interest received on our excise tax refund. 
Interest expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2008, as
compared to the same period in 2007 due primarily to the conversion of
approximately $176.9 million principal amount of convertible notes.  Foreign exchange gains of $4.3 million and
losses of $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, were recorded in  Foreign currency transactions and other,  and
were principally related to foreign exchange derivative contracts.  In addition,  Foreign currency transactions
and other  includes a loss in the amount of $0.8 million to reflect an
other-than-temporary impairment in the value of a corporate note, included in
long-term investments, and a gain of $6.0 million for debt conversions
resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard related to convertible
debt for the year ended December 31, 2008. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further detail on the adjustments.  

Income Taxes    

The
provision for income taxes includes U.S. and international income taxes
determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate.  Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31,
2007 includes non-cash tax benefits of (1) $47.9 million, resulting from
the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our domestic deferred
tax assets and (2) $3.6 million resulting from the recognition of foreign
capital allowance carryforwards.  In addition, our effective tax rate
differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%
principally due to lower foreign tax rates and the foreign tax benefit of
interest expense on intercompany debt, partially offset by state income taxes
and certain non-deductible stock-based compensation expense.  Due to our significant net operating loss
carryforwards, we do not expect to pay significant cash taxes on our U.S.
federal taxable income for the foreseeable future.  We expect to make cash payments for
international income taxes, U.S. alternative minimum tax and certain U.S. state
income taxes. Despite robust growth in our domestic earnings during 2008, the
valuation allowance has not been reduced due to inherent uncertainty and the
likely negative potential impact the current worldwide
recession will have on our future operating results and future
realization of our deferred tax assets. 
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details about
the adjustment to income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2008
and 2007.  

Equity in Loss of Investees    

79    

Table of
Contents   

Equity
in loss of investees for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
represented our pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s net results.  

Noncontrolling Interests    

Noncontrolling
interests for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, represented income
associated with the ownership of priceline.com International that was held by
former shareholders of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited, including
certain European based managers of that business.  The change versus the prior year was
primarily due to a reduction in the noncontrolling interests held by former
shareholders of priceline.com International, partially offset by an increase in
the earnings of priceline.com International. 
In September 2008, we repurchased all of the remaining outstanding
shares of priceline.com International and, as a result, there are no longer any
noncontrolling interests in priceline.com International.  See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further details.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

As
of December 31, 2009, we had $800.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments.  Approximately
$534.6 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are
held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros
and, to a lesser extent, in British Pound Sterling. Cash equivalents and
short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign government
securities, U.S. Treasury money market accounts and U.S. government securities.  

All
of our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front
from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date.  We therefore tend to experience significant
swings in supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our cost of
revenue during the last few weeks of every quarter.  This can cause volatility in working capital
levels and impact cash balances more or less than our operating income would
indicate.  

Net
cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31,
2009, was $509.7 million, resulting from net income of $489.5 million and net
favorable changes in working capital of $67.7 million, partially offset by a
net unfavorable impact of $47.5 million for non-cash items not affecting cash
flows.  Non-cash items include the
benefit of $183.3 million from the reversal of a portion of the valuation
allowance on our deferred tax assets, stock-based compensation expense,
depreciation and amortization, primarily from acquisition-related intangible
assets, amortization of debt discount and loss on conversions of our
convertible notes.  The changes in working
capital for the year ended December 31, 2009, were related to an $86.8
million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current
liabilities, partially offset by a $22.8 million increase in accounts
receivable.  The increase in these
working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volume.  

Net
cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008
was $315.6 million, resulting from net income of $185.6 million, non-cash items
not affecting cash flows of $141.0 million and partially offset by $11.0
million of changes in working capital. 
The changes in working capital for the year ended December 31,
2008, were primarily related to a $48.0 million increase in  

80    

Table of
Contents   

accounts
receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a
$37.0 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other
liabilities.  The increase in accounts
receivable was primarily due to growth in revenues, partially offset by an
increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts.  The increase in
allowance for doubtful accounts resulted primarily from slower payment of
agency commissions by hotels and to reflect the potential for increased losses
resulting from the worldwide recession and
the related impact on the financial health of our hotel partners.  A majority of the increase in accounts
payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was related to increases in
accrued affiliate commissions, deferred merchant bookings related to our
merchant business and bonus accrual. 
Non-cash items were primarily associated with deferred income taxes,
stock-based compensation expense, amortization of debt discount, gain on
conversions of our convertible notes, and depreciation and amortization,
primarily from acquisition-related intangible assets.  

Net cash used in investing
activities was $501.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.  Investing activities were affected by $490.0
million net purchase of marketable securities, a payment of $5.0 million to
settle derivative contracts and a payment of $1.5 million for acquisitions and
other equity investments, net of cash acquired, partially offset by $8.9 million
received in connection with the dissolution of pricelinemortgage.com and a
reduction in restricted cash of $1.2 million.  
Net cash used in investing activities was $151.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 2008. Investing activities were affected by the
purchase of $154.0 million of stock in priceline.com International held by
noncontrolling interests, $1.2 million increase in restricted cash and
acquisitions and other equity investments of $0.6 million.  Investing activities were also affected by $22.2
million of net maturities of investments for the year ended December 31,
2008.  Cash invested in purchase of
property and equipment was $15.1 million and $18.3 million in the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Net cash used in financing
activities was approximately $169.0 million for the year ended December 31,
2009.  The cash used in financing
activities during the year ended December 31, 2009 was primarily related
to $197.1 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, $17.4
million of treasury stock purchases, partially offset by $43.4 million of
proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $2.1 million of excess
tax benefits from stock-based compensation. 
Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $168.8 million
for the year ended December 31, 2008. 
The cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31,
2008 was primarily related to $176.9 million of principal paid upon the
conversion of senior notes, $4.4 million of treasury stock purchases, partially
offset by $5.5 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options
and $7.0 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.  

The
following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments
as of December 31, 2009 (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements):  

(1)              At December 31, 2009,
our convertible debt is convertible at the option of the holder because the
contingent conversion thresholds on each of the Notes were exceeded.  Convertible debt represents the aggregate
principal amount of the Notes and interest of $1.8 million for 2010.   See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

Based
upon the closing price of our common stock for the prescribed measurement
periods during the three months ended December 31, 2009, the contingent
conversion thresholds on each of our convertible senior note issues were exceeded.  As a result, the notes (aggregate principal
amount $195.9 million) are convertible at the option of the holder as of December 31,
2009 and, accordingly, have been classified as a current liability and in convertible
debt in mezzanine on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that  

81    

Table of
Contents   

date.  As of February 18, 2010,
we have received conversion notices from holders of approximately $98 million
outstanding principal amount that will be settled in the first quarter
2010.  When holders elect to convert, we are
required to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash and we intend to
satisfy any conversion premium in shares of common stock.  We would likely fund the repayment of the
principal amount with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments (totaling approximately $800.2 million at December 31, 2009)
and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  

In connection with our acquisition
of Agoda in 2007, contingent consideration of up to $141.6 million is payable
in 2011 if Agoda achieves specified  gross bookings  and earnings targets for
the period of January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010.  

In
September 2007, we entered into a $175 million five-year committed
revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, which is secured, subject to
certain exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on substantially all
of our assets and related intangible assets located in the United States. 
In addition, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed
by substantially all of the assets and related intangible assets of our
material direct and indirect domestic and foreign subsidiaries.  Borrowings under the revolving credit
facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to the
greater of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association s prime lending
rate and (b) the federal funds rate plus   of 1%, plus an applicable
margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%; or at an adjusted LIBOR for the
interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin
ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%.  Undrawn
balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to
commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%.  

The
revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50.0 million of
letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as
swingline loans, which are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros, Pound Sterling and
any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans made
under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate
purposes.  As of December 31, 2009,
there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility and we have issued
approximately $2.4 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit
facility.  

We
believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient
to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations
through at least the next twelve months. However, if during that period or
thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from
operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts
and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital
expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which
could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or
results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of
equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders
would be diluted.  There are no
assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the
future, that revenue growth or sustained profitability will be realized or that
future borrowings or equity sales will be available in amounts sufficient to
make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our
indebtedness.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.   

As
of December 31, 2009, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements
that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our
financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or
capital resources.  

82    

Table of Contents   

Item
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk      

We
manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk through
internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate,
through the use of derivative financial instruments. We use foreign exchange
derivative contracts to manage short-term foreign currency risk.  

The
objective of our policies is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow
and fair value exposures resulting from possible future adverse fluctuations in
rates. We evaluate our exposure to market risk by assessing the anticipated
near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange
rates. This evaluation includes the review of leading market indicators,
discussions with financial analysts and investment bankers regarding current
and future economic conditions and the review of market projections as to
expected future rates. We utilize this information to determine our own
investment strategies as well as to determine if the use of derivative
financial instruments is appropriate to mitigate any potential future market
exposure that we may face. Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative
instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for
which there are no underlying exposures. We do not use financial instruments
for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.  

We
did not experience any material changes in interest rate exposures during the
year ended December 31, 2009.  Based upon economic conditions and
leading market indicators at December 31, 2009, we do not foresee a
significant adverse change in interest rates in the near future.  

As
of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of our debt is approximately
$195.9 million.  We estimate that the
market value of such debt was approximately $1.1 billion as of December 31,
2009.  Substantially all of the market
value of our debt in excess of the carrying value is related to the conversion
premium on the bonds.  

As
a result of the acquisitions of our European and Asian operations, we are
conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United
States through subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S.
Dollar (primarily Euros and British Pound Sterling).  As a result, we face exposure to adverse
movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our
international operations are translated from local currency into U.S. Dollars
upon consolidation.  If the U.S. Dollar
weakens against the local currency, the translation of these
foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net
revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss.  Similarly, our net assets, net revenues,
operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. Dollar
strengthens against local currency. Additionally, foreign exchange rate fluctuations
on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency
result in gains and losses that are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations.  Our international operations
are subject to risks typical of international business, including, but not
limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate,
differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign
exchange rate volatility.  

From
time to time, we enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to minimize
the impact of short-term foreign currency fluctuations on our consolidated
operating results.  As of December 31,
2009, there were no outstanding contracts for derivatives not designated as
hedging instruments.  Subsequent to December 31,
2009, we entered into additional derivatives with a notional value of 95
million Euros and 5 million British Pound Sterling.  As of December 31, 2008, derivatives
with a notional value of 25.0 million Euros were outstanding.  Foreign exchange losses of $2.7 million,
gains of $4.0 million and losses of $3.0 million for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were recorded in  Foreign currency
transactions and other  related to foreign exchange derivative contracts.  As of December 31, 2009, we had forward
currency contracts with a notional amount of 183.4 million Euros to hedge a
portion of our net investment in a foreign subsidiary.  These contracts are short-term in
nature.  Mark-to-market adjustments on
these net investment hedges are recorded as currency translation
adjustments.  Subsequent to December 31,
2009, we entered into additional derivatives as net investment hedges for 70
million Euros notional amount.  See Note
6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on our derivative
instruments.  

83    

Table of Contents   

Additionally,
fixed rate investments are subject to unrealized gains and losses due to
interest rate volatility.  To the extent
that changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates affect general
economic conditions, priceline.com would also be affected by such changes.  

Item 8. 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      

The following Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and the report of our independent
registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
(See Item 15).  

Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008; Consolidated Statements
of Operations, Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Cash Flows for the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007; Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

Item
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      

None.  

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures      

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures   . Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and
procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.  

Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.     Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

Based on our evaluation, our
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of December 31, 2009.  

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements.  Projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Changes in
Internal Controls.     No change in our internal
control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f))
occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 that materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting, except as noted below.  

84    

Table of Contents   

In
March 2008, the Company initiated the implementation of an enterprise
resource planning ( ERP ) system for its domestic operations.  The implementation, which was successfully
completed in 2009, involved changes in systems that include internal controls.  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of  

  priceline.com Incorporated  

  Norwalk, Connecticut  

We have audited the internal
control over financial reporting of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries
(the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting  appearing in Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.  

A company s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of,
the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors,
management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable  

85    

Table of Contents   

assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because of the inherent
limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the
internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the
risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

In our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 19,
2010 expressed unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes
an explanatory paragraph relating to the Company s retrospective adoption of a
new accounting standard related to the (1) accounting for convertible debt
that may be settled in cash and (2) presentation and disclosure
requirements for noncontrolling interests.  

/s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

Stamford, Connecticut  

  February 19, 2010  

Item 9B.
Other Information      

None.  

86    

Table
of Contents   

PART III     

Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance      

Information
required by Part III, Item 10, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 11.
Executive Compensation      

Information
required by Part III, Item 11, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters      

Information
required by Part III, Item 12, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence      

Information
required by Part III, Item 13, will be included in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal
year ended December 31, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services      

Information
required by Part III, Item 14, will be included in our Proxy Statement relating
to our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the   Securities and
Exchange Commission   within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year
ended December 31, 2009, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

87    

Table
of Contents   

PART IV     

Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.      

(a)                                      List of
Documents Filed as a Part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  

The
following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the report of
our independent registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008; and the related
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Cash
Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007; Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements; and Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm.  

All
financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not
applicable, not material or the required information is shown in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or the notes thereto.  

(b)                                     Exhibits  

The
exhibits listed below are filed as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.    In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to
provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to
provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company or the
other parties to the agreements.  The
agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the
applicable agreement.  These
representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the
other parties to the applicable agreement and:  

should not in all instances be treated as
categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to
one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate;  

have been qualified by disclosures that
were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the
applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the
agreement;  

may apply standards of materiality in a way
that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other
investors; and  

were made only as of the date of the
applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the
agreement and are subject to more recent developments.  

Accordingly, these representations and warranties
may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or
at any other time. Additional information about the Company may be found
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company s other
public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC s website at
http://www.sec.gov.  

Exhibit   

Number   

Description   

2.1(m)  

Share
  Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated July 14, 2005 by and between the
  Registrant, ACME Limited and Blue Sky Investments B.V.  

2.2(o)  

Articles
  of Association of priceline.com International Limited, as amended.  

3.1(a)  

Amended
  and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant.  

3.2(b)  

Certificate
  of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated
  June 13, 2003.  

3.3(jj)  

Certificate
  of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated
  June 3, 2009.  

3.4(kk)  

Amended
  and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant.  

4.1  

Reference
  is hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.  

4.2(a)  

Specimen
  Certificate for Registrant s Common Stock.  

88    

Table of Contents   

4.3(a)  

Amended
  and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 8,
  1998, among the Registrant and certain stockholders of the Registrant.  

4.4(b)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2003, among the Registrant and
  the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.5(b)  

Indenture,
  dated as of August 1, 2003, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.6(b)  

Supplemental
  Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2003, between the Registrant and American
  Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.7(d)  

Second
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.8(c)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004, among priceline.com
  Incorporated and the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.9(c)  

Indenture,
  dated as of June 28, 2004, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.10(d)  

First
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.11(b)  

Certificate
  of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Convertible
  Redeemable PIK Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.12(b)  

Certificate
  of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series B Redeemable Preferred
  Stock of the Registrant.  

4.13(u)  

Indenture,
  dated as of September 27, 2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and
  American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.14(u)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as representative of the
  Initial Purchasers.  

4.15(w)  

Indenture
  relating to New 1.00% Notes, dated as of November 6, 2006, between
  priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as
  Trustee.  

4.16(w)  

Indenture
  relating to New 2.25% Notes, dated as of November 6, 2006, between
  priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as
  Trustee.  

10.1(a)+  

1997
  Omnibus Plan of the Registrant.  

10.2(e)+  

1999
  Omnibus Plan of the Registrant, as amended.  

10.3(f)+  

Priceline.com
  2000 Employee Stock Option Plan.  

10.4(e)+  

Form of
  Stock Option Grant Agreement.  

10.5(e)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants to Board of Directors.  

10.6(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.).  

10.7(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.).  

10.8(g)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement with covenants (U.S.).  

10.9(g)+  

Restricted
  Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the
  Registrant.  

10.10(h)+  

Stock
  Option and Restricted Stock Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, by and
  between the Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.11(g)+  

Restricted
  Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and
  the Registrant.  

10.12(i)+  

Employment
  Agreement, dated February 8, 2006, by and between the Registrant and
  Peter J. Millones.  

10.13(i)+  

Form of
  priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for
  Non-Employee Directors.  

10.14(j)*  

Formation
  and Funding Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2000, by and between the
  Registrant and Alliance Partners, L.P.  

10.15(k)  

Restructuring
  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003, between Hutchison-Priceline
  Limited, Trio Happiness Limited and PCLN Asia, Inc.  

10.16(k)  

Amended
  and Restated Securityholders  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003,
  among Hutchison-Priceline Limited, PCLN Asia, Inc. and Trio Happiness
  Limited.  

10.17(k)  

Master
  Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003, between Credit Suisse First
  Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.18(k)  

Schedule
  to the Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003 between Credit
  Suisse First Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.19(k)  

Letter
  Agreement, dated November 26, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston
  International and priceline.com Incorporated.  

10.20(k)  

Securities
  Purchase Agreement dated as of May 3, 2004, between Lowestfare.com
  Incorporated, Hilton Electronic Distribution Systems, LLC, HT-HDS, Inc.,
  MI Distribution, LLC, Starwood Resventure LLC, Pegasus Business Intelligence,
  LP and Travelweb LLC.  

10.21(l)  

Sale
  and Purchase Agreement dated September 21, 2004 by and among
  Priceline.com Holdco U.K. Limited and the security holders of Active Hotels
  Limited listed therein.  

10.22(n)+  

Stock
  Option Grant Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna.  

10.23(n)+  

Indemnification
  Agreement, dated June 2, 2005, by and between the Registrant and
  Marshall Loeb.  

10.24(p)+  

Letter
  agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between the Registrant and
  Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.25(p)+  

Restricted
  Stock Grant Agreement, dated October 19, 2005, reflecting grant of
  restricted stock to Daniel J. Finnegan.  

89    

Table of Contents   

10.26(q)+  

Form of
  Registrant s 1999 Omnibus Plan Award Agreement   Restricted Stock Units for
  Employees in the Netherlands.  

10.27(r)+  

Form of
  Performance Share Agreement under the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus
  Plan.  

10.28(s)  

Underwriting
  Agreement, dated September 5, 2006, among priceline.com Incorporated,
  the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II thereto and Goldman,
  Sachs   Co.  

10.29(t)  

Purchase
  Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as representative of the
  Initial Purchasers.  

10.30(t)  

Confirmation
  of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman,
  Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.31(t)  

Confirmation
  of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman,
  Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.32(t)  

Confirmation
  of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch,
  Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated,
  dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.33(t)  

Confirmation
  of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch,
  Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated,
  dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.34(v)  

Amendment
  dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share
  Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and
  priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and
  Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between
  Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.35(v)  

Amendment
  dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share
  Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  
  Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call
  Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith
  Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21,
  2006.  

10.36(x)  

Underwriting
  Agreement, dated December 4, 2006, among priceline.com Incorporated, the
  selling stockholders listed on Schedule II thereto and Goldman,
  Sachs   Co.  

10.37(y)+  

Priceline.com
  Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated as of February 20, 2007.  

10.38(z)  

Stipulation
  and Agreement of Settlement between P. Warren Ross, Thomas Linton, and John
  Anderson and the class and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  May 3, 2007.  

10.39(aa)  

Credit
  Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 among priceline.com Incorporated,
  RBC citizens, National Association, and Bank of Scotland plc as
  co-documentation Agents, bank of America, N.A. as syndication Agent and
  JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as Administrative Agent.  

10.40(aa)  

Pledge
  and Security Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 by and among
  priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association.  

10.41(aa)  

Guaranty
  dated as of September 26, 2007 by each of the subsidiaries of
  priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association.  

10.42(bb)*  

Equity
  Purchase Agreement by and among priceline.com Mauritius Co. Ltd,
  priceline.com Incorporated and the shareholders of Agoda Company Ltd. and
  members of AGIP LLC dated November 6, 2007.  

10.43(cc)+  

Performance
  share unit agreement dated December 1, 2007.  

10.44(  dd)*+  

Form of
  2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan,
  as amended, based on the performance of the Company s consolidated
  operations.  

10.45(  dd)*+  

Form of
  2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan,
  as amended, based on the performance of the Company s domestic operations on
  an unconsolidated basis.  

10.46(  dd)*+  

Form of
  2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan,
  as amended, based on the performance of Agoda Company Ltd., Agoda Company
  Pte. Ltd. and Agoda Services Co. Ltd.  

10.47(  ee)+  

priceline.com
  Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective
  June 4, 2008).  

10.48(  ff)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to non-U.S. participants under the
  1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended.  

10.49(  gg)+  

Separation
  Agreement, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Stef Norden.  

10.50(  gg)+  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated August 22, 2008, by and between
  priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd.  

10.51(  gg)+  

Performance
  share unit agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery
  H. Boyd.  

10.52(hh)  +  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 18, 2008, to   Amended and Restated Employment
  Agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd.  

10.53(hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Robert J. Mylod.  

10.54(hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Peter J. Millones.  

10.55(hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Chris Soder.  

10.56  (hh)  +  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 16, 2008, to   Letter agreement, dated
  October 19, 2005 by and between priceline.com and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.57  (hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Contract, by and between Booking.com B.V. and
  Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen.  

90    

Table of Contents   

91    

Table
of Contents   

Signatures     

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

PRICELINE.COM
  INCORPORATED  

By:  

/s/
  Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery
  H. Boyd  

Title:  

Chief
  Executive Officer  

Date:  

February 19,
  2010  

Power of
Attorney   

KNOW
ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below
constitutes and appoints Jeffery H. Boyd,   Daniel J. Finnegan   and Peter J.
Millones, and each of them severally, his or her true and lawful
attorney-in-fact with power of substitution and resubstitution to sign in his
or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all
things and execute any and all instruments that such attorney may deem
necessary or advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules,
regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
hereto, as fully and for all intents and purposes as he or she might do or
could do in person, and hereby ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/
  Ralph M. Bahna  

Chairman
  and Director  

February 17,
  2010  

Ralph
  M. Bahna  

/s/
  Jeffery H. Boyd  

President,
  Chief Executive Officer and  

February 19,
  2010  

Jeffery
  H. Boyd  

Director
  (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/
  Daniel J. Finnegan  

Chief
  Financial Officer and Chief Accounting  

February 19,
  2010  

Daniel
  J. Finnegan  

Officer
  (Principal Financial Officer and  
    Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

92    

Table of Contents   

93    

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

94    

Table of
Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of  

  priceline.com Incorporated  

  Norwalk, Connecticut  

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of priceline.com Incorporated and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  

As discussed in Note 2 to
the financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for the
retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard related to the (1) accounting
for convertible debt that may be settled in cash and (2) presentation and
disclosure requirements for noncontrolling interests.  

We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 19, 2010 expressed an unqualified
opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

/s/  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

Stamford, Connecticut  

  February 19, 2010  

95    

Table of Contents   

priceline.com
Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS     

   (In
thousands, except share and per share data)   

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

96    

Table of
Contents   

priceline.com
Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

   (In
thousands, except per share data)   

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

97    

Table
of Contents   

priceline.com
Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY     

   FOR THE
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (In thousands)   

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

98    

Table of
Contents   

priceline.com Incorporated   

   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS     

   (In thousands)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

99    

Table
of Contents   

priceline.com Incorporated  

  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

1.                                           BUSINESS DESCRIPTION  

Priceline.com
Incorporated ( priceline.com,  or the  Company ) is a leading global online
travel company that offers its customers a broad range of travel services,
including the opportunity to purchase hotel rooms, car rentals, airline
tickets, vacation packages, cruises and destination services in a traditional
price-disclosed manner.  The Company also
offers its unique  Name Your Own Price       service that enables its customers to use the
Internet to save money by allowing them to make offers for travel services at
prices they set, while enabling sellers, which include many of the major
domestic hotel, airline and rental car companies, to generate revenue.  

2.                                           SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Basis of Presentation      The Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, including without limitation, priceline.com International Ltd.
( priceline.com International ), Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited,
priceline.com Europe Ltd, and   priceline.com Mauritius
Company Limited (formerly known as   Agoda
Company, Ltd.)   ( Agoda ). 
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.  Investments in affiliates
in which the Company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise
significant influence, are accounted for by the equity method.  

Subsequent Events   
  The Company has evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential
recognition or disclosure in the financial statements through the time that it
filed its financial statements on February 18, 2010.  

Use of Estimates      The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements
and footnotes thereto.  Actual results
may differ significantly from those estimates. 
The significant estimates underlying the Company s Consolidated Financial
Statements relate to, among other things, the Company s deferred tax valuation
allowance, the Company s accounting for state and local  hotel occupancy 
taxes, stock-based compensation, the Company s allowance for doubtful accounts,
and the valuation of goodwill and long-lived assets and intangibles.  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments      The
Company s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents,
restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and
deferred merchant bookings, are carried at cost which approximates their fair
value because of the short-term nature of these financial instruments.  See Notes 6 and 12 for information on fair
value for investments, derivatives and the Company s outstanding Convertible
Senior Notes.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents      Cash and cash equivalents
consists primarily of cash and highly liquid investment grade securities with an
original maturity of three months or less.  

Restricted Cash      Restricted cash at December 31,
2009 and 2008 collateralizes office leases and supplier obligations.  

Investments      The Company has
classified its investments as available-for-sale securities.  These securities are carried at estimated
fair value with the aggregate unrealized gains and losses related to these
investments, net of taxes, reflected as a part of  Accumulated other
comprehensive loss  within stockholders  equity.  

100    

Table
of Contents   

The
fair value of the investments is based on the specific quoted market price of
the securities or comparable securities at the balance sheet dates.  Investments in debt securities are considered
to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other than
temporary because the Company either intends to sell or it is more-likely-than
not that it will have to sell the impaired security before recovery.  Once a decline in fair value is determined to
be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis
in the investment is established.   If the Company does not
intend to sell the debt security, but it is probable that the Company will not
collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would
be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be
recognized in  Accumulated other comprehensive loss  within stockholders 
equity.   The marketable securities are presented as current assets on the
Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets, if they are available to meet the
short-term working capital needs of the Company.  Investments with a maturity date greater than
one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term investments.  See Notes 5 and 6 for further detail of
investments.  

Property and Equipment      Property and equipment are
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization of property and
equipment is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives
of the assets or, when applicable, the life of the lease, whichever is shorter.  

Goodwill      The Company accounts for
acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which requires that
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition
at their respective fair values.  Any
excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets
acquired is recorded as goodwill.  The
Company s Consolidated Financial Statements reflect an acquired business
starting at the date of the acquisition.  

Goodwill
is not subject to amortization and is reviewed at least annually for
impairment, or earlier if an event occurs or circumstances change and there is
an indication of impairment.  The Company
tests goodwill at a reporting unit level. 
The fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying value,
including goodwill.  Fair values are
determined based on discounted cash flows, market multiples or appraised values
and are based on market participant assumptions.  An impairment is recorded to the extent that
the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill.
See Note 10 for further information.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangible Assets      The Company
reviews long-lived assets and intangible assets for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may
not be recoverable.  The assessment of
possible impairment is based upon the Company s ability to recover the carrying
value of the assets from the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows,
before interest and taxes, of the related operations.  The amount of impairment loss, if any, is
measured as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over the present
value of estimated future cash flows, using a discount rate commensurate with
the risks involved and based on assumptions representative of market
participants.  

Software Capitalization      Certain direct development
costs associated with internal-use software are capitalized and include
external direct costs of services and payroll costs for employees devoting time
to the software projects principally related to software coding, designing
system interfaces and installation and testing of the software.  These costs are recorded as property and
equipment and are generally amortized over a period of three to five years
beginning when the asset is substantially ready for use. Costs incurred during
the preliminary project stage, as well as maintenance and training costs, are
expensed as incurred.  

Merchant
Revenues and Cost of Merchant Revenues   

Name Your
Own Price        Services : 
Merchant revenues and related cost of revenues are derived from
transactions where priceline.com is the merchant of record and, among other
things, selects suppliers and determines the price it will accept from the
customer.  The Company recognizes such
revenues and costs if and when it fulfills the customer s non-refundable
offer.  Merchant revenues and cost of
merchant revenues include the selling price and cost, respectively, of the
travel services and are  

101    

Table
of Contents   

reported on a gross basis.  In very limited circumstances, priceline.com
makes certain customer accommodations to satisfy disputes and complaints.  The Company accrues for such estimated losses
and classifies the resulting expense as adjustments to merchant revenue and
cost of merchant revenues.    Pursuant to the terms of the
Company s hotel service, its hotel suppliers are permitted to bill the Company
for the underlying cost of the service during a specified period of time.  In the event that the Company is not billed
by its hotel supplier within the specified time period, the Company reduces its
cost of revenues by the unbilled amounts.  

Merchant
Price-Disclosed Hotel Service   :  Merchant revenues for the Company s   merchant
price-disclosed   hotel service are derived from transactions where
its customers purchase hotel room reservations from hotel suppliers at
disclosed rates which are subject to contractual arrangements.  Charges are billed to customers at the time
of booking and are included in deferred merchant bookings until the customer
completes the stay.  Such amounts are
generally refundable upon cancellation prior to stay, subject to cancellation
penalties in certain cases.  Merchant
revenues and accounts payable to the hotel supplier are recognized at the
conclusion of the customer s stay at the hotel. 
The Company records the difference between the selling price and the
cost of the hotel room reservation as merchant revenue.  

Agency Revenues   

Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where the
Company is not the merchant of record and where the prices of the services sold
are determined by third parties.  Agency
revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees and global
distribution system ( GDS ) reservation booking fees and are reported at the net
amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue.  Such revenues are generally recognized by the
Company when the customers complete their travel.  

Advertising   - Offline        Advertising-offline
expenses are comprised primarily of costs of domestic television, print, and
radio advertising, agency fees, the cost for creative talent and production
cost for television, print, and radio advertising.  The Company expenses the production costs of
advertising the first time the advertising takes place.  

Advertising   - Online           Advertising-online expenses consist primarily of keyword searches,
affiliate programs, banners, pop-ups, and email campaigns and are recognized as
expense as the advertisements take place. 
  Included in  accrued expenses and other current liabilities  on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets are accrued online advertising liabilities of $46.4
million and $19.0 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Sales and Marketing      Sales and marketing
expenses are comprised primarily of credit card processing fees   associated
with merchant transactions  , fees paid to third-party service providers
that operate the Company s call centers for its   priceline.com business  , provisions
for credit card charge-backs and provisions for bad debts   primarily
related to agency hotel commission receivables  , all of which are expensed
as incurred.    

Personnel         Personnel expenses consist of compensation to the Company s
personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health
insurance and other benefits, and stock based compensation.  Included in  Accrued expenses and other
current liabilities  on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are accrued
compensation liabilities of $37.8 million and $29.4 million at December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  

102    

Table
of Contents   

Stock-Based Compensation      The cost of stock-based
transactions are recognized in the financial statements based upon fair
value.  The fair value of restricted
stock, performance share units and restricted stock units is determined based
on the number of units or shares, as applicable, granted and the quoted price
of the Company s common stock as of the grant date.  Stock-based compensation related to performance
share units reflects the estimated probable outcome at the end of the
performance period.  The fair value of
stock options is determined as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes
valuation model.  Fair value is
recognized as expense on a straight line basis, net of estimated forfeitures,
over the employee requisite service period.  

The
fair value at grant date for restricted stock units with a market condition is
estimated, based on the complexity of the award, using both closed-form models
and lattice models.  All compensation
cost for an award that has a market condition is recognized as stock based
compensation cost if the requisite service period is fulfilled, even if the
market condition is never satisfied.  

The
benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation costs are
reported as financing cash flows, but only when such excess tax benefits are
realized by a reduction to current taxes payable.  See Note 4 for further information on
stock-based awards.  

Information Technology      Information technology
expenses are comprised primarily of outsourced data center costs, system
maintenance and software license fees, data communications and other expenses
associated with operating the Company s Internet sites and payments to outside
contractors. Such costs are expensed as incurred.  

Income Taxes      The Company accounts for
income taxes under the asset and liability method.  The Company records the estimated future tax
effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities
and amounts reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating
loss and tax credit carryforwards. 
Deferred taxes are classified as current or noncurrent based on the
balance sheet classification of the related assets and liabilities.  

The
Company records deferred tax assets to the extent it believes these assets will
more likely than not be realized.  The
Company follows specific and detailed guidelines in each tax jurisdiction
regarding the recoverability of any tax asset recorded and provides valuation
allowances as required.  The Company
regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability considering
historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing
of the reversals of existing temporary differences, the carryforward periods
available for tax reporting purposes, and tax planning strategies.  A valuation allowance is provided when it is
more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not
be realized.  The ultimate realization of
deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income during
the period in which related temporary differences become deductible.  In determining the future tax consequences of
events that have been recognized in the financial statements or tax returns,
significant judgments, estimates, and interpretation of statutes are required.  

Deferred
taxes are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled.  The effect on
deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period
that includes the enactment date of such change.  

Income
taxes are not accrued for unremitted earnings of international operations that
have been or are intended to be reinvested indefinitely.  

The
Company recognizes liabilities when it believes that uncertain positions may
not be fully sustained upon review by the tax authorities.  Liabilities recognized for uncertain tax
positions are based on a two step approach for recognition and
measurement.  First, the Company evaluates
the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available
evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be
sustained on audit based on its technical merits.  Secondly, the Company measures the tax
benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized
upon ultimate settlement.  Interest and
penalties attributable to uncertain tax positions, if any, are recognized as a
component of income tax expense.  See
Note 16 for further details on income taxes.  

103    

Table of
Contents   

Segment Reporting        The Company
operates and manages its business as a single reportable unit.  Operating segments that have similar economic
chacteristics are aggregated.    For
geographic related information, see Note 19 to the Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

Foreign Currency Translation      The functional currency of
the Company s foreign subsidiaries is generally their respective local
currency.  Assets and liabilities are
translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange existing at the balance sheet
date.  Income statement amounts are
translated at average monthly exchange rates applicable for the period.  Translation gains and losses are included as
a component of  Accumulated other comprehensive loss  on the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses are included in  Foreign currency
transactions and other  in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

Derivative Financial Instruments        As a result of the
Company s international operations, it is exposed to various market risks that
may affect its consolidated results of operations, cash flow and financial
position.  These market risks include,
but are not limited to, fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  The Company s primary foreign currency
exposures are in Euros and British Pound Sterling, in which it conducts a
significant portion of its business activities. 
As a result, the Company faces exposure to adverse movements in currency
exchange rates as the financial results of its international operations are
translated from local currency into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation.  Additionally, foreign exchange rate
fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in income.  

The
Company may enter into derivative instruments to hedge certain net exposures of
nonfunctional currency denominated assets and liabilities and the volatility
associated with translating foreign earnings into U.S. Dollars, even though it
does not elect to apply hedge accounting or hedge accounting does not
apply.  Gains and losses resulting from a
change in fair value for these derivatives are reflected in income in the
period in which the change occurs and are recognized on the Consolidated
Statements of Operations in  Foreign currency transactions and other.   Cash flows related to these contracts are
classified within  Net cash provided by operating activities  on the cash flow
statement.  

The
Company also utilizes derivative instruments to hedge the impact of changes in
currency exchange rates on the net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.    These instruments are designated as net
investment hedges.  Hedge ineffectiveness
is assessed and measured based on changes in forward exchange rates.  The Company records gains and losses on these
derivative instruments as currency translation adjustments, which offset a
portion of the translation adjustments related to the foreign subsidiary s net
assets.  Gains and losses are recognized
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in  Accumulated other comprehensive loss  and
will be realized upon a partial sale or liquidation of the investment.  The Company formally documents all
derivatives designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes, both at
hedge inception and on an on-going basis. 
These net investment hedges expose the Company to liquidity risk as the
derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity, which is not
offset by the translation of the underlying hedged equity.  The cash flows from these contracts are
classified within  Net cash used in investing activities  on the cash flow
statement.  

104    

Table of Contents   

The
Company does not use financial instruments for trading or speculative
purposes.  The Company recognizes all
derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value and its derivative
instruments are generally short-term in duration.  The derivative instruments do not contain
leverage features.  

The
Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts may
fail to meet their contractual obligations. 
The Company regularly reviews its credit exposure as well as assessing the
creditworthiness of its counterparties. 
See Note 6 for further detail on derivatives.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
Accounting Standards Codification    

In
June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
guidance on its Accounting Standards Codification  ( ASC  or  Codification )
and the hierarchy of U.S. GAAP. 
Effective July 1, 2009, the FASB launched the Codification which
became effective for all interim and annual periods ending after September 15,
2009.  Now effective, the Codification is
the single official source of authoritative, nongovernmental U.S. GAAP and
supersedes all previously issued non-SEC accounting and reporting
standards.  The Codification as launched
did not change U.S. GAAP but organized the accounting literature by topical
areas in a user-friendly online research system.  The Codification also includes relevant SEC
guidance organized using the same topical structure.  Specific changes that modify the Codification
are communicated by the FASB by the issuance of an Accounting Standard Update
( ASU ).  During 2009 and early 2010, the
FASB issued several ASUs that mostly entailed technical corrections to existing
guidance or affected guidance to specialized industries or entities.  With the exception of the 2010 accounting
update that requires additional disclosure on fair value measurements, none of
the ASUs issued to date is expected to have an impact on the Company.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
Noncontrolling Interests and Convertible Debt Settled in Cash   

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard dealing
with noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as minority interests)
that changed the accounting and reporting for noncontrolling interests in the
consolidated financial statements.  In
connection with the Company s acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005
and Booking.com Limited in September 2004, key managers of these companies
purchased shares of priceline.com International.  In addition, these key managers were granted
restricted stock and restricted stock units in priceline.com International
shares.  In September 2008, the
Company repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares underlying the
noncontrolling interests so the adoption of this standard did not impact the
Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008.  This standard is effective for the Company on
a prospective basis, except for presentation and disclosure requirements that
are applied retrospectively.  The impact
on financial statement presentation for the Company is summarized in the tables
below.  

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard that
impacts the accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash.  This new standard requires cash settled convertible
debt, such as the Company s convertible senior notes, to be separated into debt
and equity components at issuance and a value assigned to each.  The value assigned to debt is the estimated
fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar bond without the conversion
feature.  The difference between the bond
cash proceeds and this fair value, representing the value assigned to the
equity component, is recorded as a debt discount and amortized to interest
expense over the life of the bond.  In
addition, if the Company s convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to
maturity and the fair value of the debt component immediately prior to
extinguishment is different from the carrying value, a gain or loss on
extinguishment is recognized.  This
standard also requires that deferred financing costs be allocated between debt
(amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method) and equity
based on the allocations between debt and equity at debt issuance.  Although this standard has no impact on the
Company s actual past or future cash flows, it requires the Company to record a
significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is
amortized. This standard requires retrospective application.   

105    

Table of Contents   

The
impact on financial statement presentation for the Company is summarized in the
tables below.  See Note 12 for further
information concerning the impact on our convertible debt for adopting this
standard.  

Adjustments Related to Retrospective Adoption of New Accounting
Pronouncements      Certain prior year amounts in the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements have been adjusted to reflect the
retrospective adoption of the two new accounting standards described
above.  The impacts on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008, the Consolidated Statements of
Operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007
are summarized below:  

Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands)    

(1)              This represents an outstanding principal
amount of $393.0 million less unamortized debt discount of $75.1 million.  Deferred income taxes were restated to
include a reduction in the amount of $29.9 million that represents the deferred
tax effect of the aforementioned debt discount.  

(2)              The decrease in other assets resulted
from the allocation of $3.6 million of deferred financing costs to equity,
partially offset by lower amortization expense of $1.3 million and the reversal
of a portion of costs previously written off in 2008 of $0.6 million upon debt
conversion.  

(3)              Upon retrospective application, the
Company increased additional paid-in capital by $88.8 million net of tax which
represents the estimated equity component of the Company s convertible notes,
and decreased additional paid-in capital by $3.6 million for the deferred
financing costs allocated to the equity component.  Since all of the notes were convertible at December 31,
2008 at the option of the holder, and the terms of the notes require that the
principal amount be settled in cash, the Company reclassified $75.1 million
from permanent equity to mezzanine (reported as  Convertible debt  between
total liabilities and stockholders  equity). 
The impact of debt conversions during 2008 resulted in a net decrease to
additional paid-in capital of $10.6 million.  

(4)              The adoption resulted in an increase in non-cash interest expense of $26.1 million
($15.5 million net of tax), $28.2 million ($16.6 million net of tax), and $5.4
million ($3.2 million net of tax) for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.  In
addition, adoption resulted in an after-tax gain of $3.6 million for 2008 debt
conversions and an after-tax reversal of $0.6 million for a portion of deferred
financing costs originally written off in 2008 upon debt conversion.  

106    

Table of
Contents   

Consolidated
Statement of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2008    

    (in
thousands, except per share data)    

(1)              Interest expense was $25.5 million
higher due to amortization of debt discount of $26.7 million, partially offset
by lower amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.6 million and the reversal
of a portion of debt issuance costs written off on conversions of $0.6
million.  As a result, net income
decreased by $11.2 million.  

(2)              Includes a gain of $6.0 million
($3.6 million after tax) on debt conversions recorded in  Foreign currency
transactions and other .  

(3)              The adoption of the new accounting
standard for noncontrolling interests resulted in a change in the presentation
on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

107    

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
Statement of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2007    

    (in thousands, except per share
data)    

(1)       Interest expense was $28.2 million
higher due to amortization of debt discount of $28.8 million, partially offset
by lower amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.6 million.  As a result, net income decreased by $16.7
million.  

(2)       The adoption of the new accounting
standard for noncontrolling interests resulted in a change in the presentation
on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for Year Ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands)    

108    

Table
of Contents   

Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for Year Ended December 31, 2007 (in thousands)    

(1)       Includes a reversal of a valuation allowance on
deferred tax assets of $47.9 million.  

(2)   There is no overall impact on the Company s
actual past or future total operating, investing, or financing cash flows.  However, certain amounts within  Net cash
provided by operating activities  on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been reclassified to
conform to the presentation under these accounting pronouncements.  

Accounting
guidance requires that redeemable noncontrolling interests be stated at fair
value and reported as mezzanine (temporary equity) on the balance sheet on a
retrospective basis for presentation purposes. 
Although this accounting standard had no impact on the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheets, since the noncontrolling interests were
repurchased prior to December 31, 2008, it does require the Company to reflect
the impact of fair value adjustments on equity. The fair value increase at
December 31, 2006 and 2007 resulted in a decrease to additional paid in capital
of $40.2 million and $37.2 million, respectively. In 2008, the Company reversed
these fair value adjustments amounting to $77.4 million upon redemption of the
remaining shares of noncontrolling interests. 
See Note 15 for further information on   noncontrolling   interests.    A reconciliation of the
change in the estimated fair value of redeemable noncontrolling interests for
the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is as follows (in thousands):  

Other Recent Accounting
Pronouncements        In November 2008, the
FASB ratified a proposal that clarifies the accounting for certain transactions
and impairment considerations involving entities that acquire or hold
investments accounted for under the equity method.  This accounting guidance is applied on a
prospective basis.  The adoption of this
standard on January 1, 2009 did not have an impact on the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a revised
accounting standard associated with the accounting for assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in a business combination. 
This revised standard requires assets acquired, liabilities assumed,
contractual contingencies and contingent consideration  in a business combination to be recognized at
fair value, at the acquisition date, if (1) the acquisition-date fair
value can be determined during the twelve month measurement period or (2) during
the twelve month measurement period it is probable that an asset existed or a
liability had been incurred at the acquisition  

109    

Table of Contents    

date and the asset or
liability can be reasonably estimated. 
Subsequent changes to the estimated fair value of contingent
consideration are reflected in earnings until the contingency is settled.  Also, contingent consideration arrangements
of an acquiree assumed by the acquirer in a business combination will be
recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition, with subsequent changes in
fair value recognized in earnings.  The
revised standard requires additional disclosures about recognized and
unrecognized contingencies.  This
standard is effective for acquisitions made after December 31, 2008.  The adoption of this standard will change the
Company s accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective
basis.  

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted a new accounting standard which
provides new disclosure requirements for an entity s derivative instruments and
hedging activities.  See Note 6 for
disclosures about the Company s derivative instruments.  

On
January 1, 2008, the Company adopted certain provisions of a new
accounting standard which defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) and
expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
the remaining provisions of this accounting standard as it relates to nonfinancial
assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a
recurring basis.  In April 2009, the
FASB issued further clarification for determining fair value when the volume
and level of activity for an asset or liability had significantly decreased and
for identifying transactions that were not conducted in an orderly market.  This clarification of the accounting standard
is effective for interim reporting periods after June 15, 2009, with early
adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. The Company
adopted this clarification of the standard effective for the three months ended
March 31, 2009.  The adoption of the
provisions of this new standard did not materially impact the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements.  In January 2010,
the accounting requirements for fair value measurements were modified to
provide disclosures about transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2, separate
detail of activity relating to Level 3 measurements, and disclosure by class of
asset and liability as opposed to disclosure by the major category of assets
and liabilities, which was often interpreted as a line item on the balance
sheet.  The accounting guidance also
clarifies for Level 2 and Level 3 measurements that a description of the
valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value and a discussion of
changes in valuation techniques or inputs, if any, are required for both
recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.  If the guidance issued in January 2010 is
not adopted early, it is effective for the first reporting period, including
interim periods, beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the
requirement to provide detail activity of Level 3 measurements, which will be
effective beginning after December 15, 2010.  The Company will adopt this 2010 guidance
effective with the three months ended March 31, 2010.  See Note 6 for information on fair value
measurements.  

In
April 2009, the FASB extended the fair value disclosures currently
required on an annual basis for financial instruments to interim reporting
periods.  This accounting guidance also
requires entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to
estimate the fair value of financial instruments on an interim and annual basis
and to highlight any changes from prior periods.  These new disclosures are effective for
interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption
permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009.  The Company adopted the new disclosure requirements
effective for the three months ended March 31, 2009.  See Notes 6 and 12 for information on the
fair value of financial instruments.  

In
April 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to
other-than-temporary impairments that applies only to debt securities and
shifts the focus from an entity s intent and ability to hold until recovery to
its intent to sell.  If an entity intends
to sell, or it is more-likely-than not that it will have to sell, impaired
securities before recovery, the adjustment to fair value would be recognized
through earnings.  If an entity does not
intend to sell the impaired debt security but it is probable that the entity
will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to credit risk
would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment
would be recognized in equity, in other comprehensive income but separately
disclosed from other gains or losses on available-for-sale securities.  The non-credit risk portion of the impairment
for held-to-maturity securities will be amortized  

110    

Table of Contents   

prospectively over the remaining life of the
security.  This change in accounting is
effective for interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, with
early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009, and
applies to existing and new investments held as of the beginning of the interim
period in which it is adopted.  The
adoption of this standard, effective with the three months ended March 31,
2009, did not have an impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

In
May 2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which requires entities
to state in their periodic filings the date through which subsequent events
were evaluated (either when statements were  issued  or  available to be
issued ).  The date when  issued  is when
the financial statements are widely distributed to shareholders or other users
for general use in a format that complies with U.S. GAAP.  As a public entity, the Company is required
to make this evaluation through the date that the financial statements are
issued.  This new standard is effective
for interim or annual periods ending after June 15, 2009.  The Company adopted this standard for the six
months ended June 30, 2009.  

In
July 2009, the FASB ratified a proposal which deals with the accounting
for own share lending agreements contemplated with the issuance of convertible
debt.  This new accounting guidance
applies to equity classified arrangements and requires: (1) the share
lender to record the fair value of the arrangement as issuance cost and to
amortize the cost to interest expense over the duration of the arrangement; (2) to
record a loss equal to the fair value of the shares if it is probable that the
shares will not be returned or the share borrower will be unable to pay for the
unreturned shares; and (3) to exclude from earnings per share calculations
the loaned shares, unless there is an actual default.  Additionally, the accounting requirements
include certain disclosures about the arrangement.  This accounting treatment is effective for
new arrangements entered into in periods beginning on or after July 15,
2009.  For all other share-lending
arrangements, this accounting requirement is effective for fiscal years and
interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15,
2009, with retrospective application for arrangements outstanding on the
effective date.  Since the Company does
not currently have any share lending arrangements, this accounting guidance did
not have an impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In
April 2008, the FASB issued guidance on determining the useful life of
acquired intangible assets.  The new
guidance removed the requirement to consider whether an intangible asset can be
renewed without substantial cost of material modifications to the existing
terms and conditions and, instead, required an entity to consider its own
historical experience in renewing similar arrangements.  This accounting guidance also expanded
disclosure related to the determination of intangible asset useful lives.  The accounting guidance is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2008, and may impact any intangible assets the Company acquires in future
transactions.  

In
June 2008, the FASB ratified a proposal that addressed the determination
of whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own
stock.  This accounting guidance is
effective for years beginning after December 15, 2008.  The adoption of this standard on January 1,
2009 did not have an impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In
December 2008, accounting guidance was issued for accounting for defensive
intangible assets.  A defensive asset is
an acquired intangible asset where the acquirer has no intention of using, or
intends to discontinue use of, the intangible asset but holds it to prevent
competitors from obtaining any benefit from it. 
The acquired defensive asset is treated as a separate unit of accounting
and the useful life assigned is based on the period during which the asset will
diminish in value.  This accounting
guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15,
2008.  The adoption of this standard may
change the Company s accounting treatment for future business combinations.  

In
May 2008, the FASB issued an accounting standard which identified the
sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles
to be used in the preparation of financial statements of non-governmental
entities that are presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted  

111    

Table of Contents   

accounting principles.  This standard was effective November 15,
2008.  The adoption of this statement did
not result in a change in the Company s current practices.  

In
February 2007, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which permitted
companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value.  This standard
required unrealized gains and losses to be included in earnings for items
reported under the fair value option. 
This standard was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2007. 
The Company did not elect the fair value option.  

3.                 BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS  

On
November 6, 2007, the Company and a newly-formed, indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% of the total issued share capital of
priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as Agoda Company, Ltd.) ( Agoda ) and
AGIP LLC.  The purchase price for the acquisition, including acquisition
costs, consists of an initial purchase price payable by the Company in cash of
approximately $16 million and up to an additional $141.6 million    in cash, which is payable by the Company
if Agoda achieves the maximum  gross bookings  and earnings targets from January 1,
2008 through December 31, 2010.  Assets acquired totaled $13.7
million and consisted principally of cash, accounts receivable and intangible
assets.  Liabilities assumed totaled
approximately $13.1 million and consisted of accounts payable, accrued
expenses, deferred merchant bookings and deferred taxes.  Goodwill resulting from the acquisition
amounted to approximately $16.0 million. The contingent consideration, if any,
will be recorded to goodwill as an additional purchase price adjustment when
the contingency is resolved.  

On December 21, 2007,
the Company acquired 100% of the total issued share capital of an online
advertising company for approximately $4.1 million in cash, including
acquisition costs.  Assets acquired
totaled $2.6 million and consisted principally of cash, accounts receivable and
intangible assets.  Liabilities assumed
totaled approximately $0.6 million and consisted of accounts payable, accrued
expenses, and deferred taxes.  Goodwill
resulting from the acquisition amounted to approximately $3.9 million.  The Company could be required to pay
additional cash if the online advertising company achieves certain specified
financial targets in each year over a three year period commencing January 1,
2008.  The contingent cash consideration
is calculated based on a formula applied to operating results and can range
from zero to $3.8 million in each year. 
Based upon 2009 and 2008 results, the Company recorded a liability and
increased goodwill by $2.5 million and $1.5 million in December 2009 and December 2008,
respectively, to reflect this purchase price adjustment.  

The acquisitions have been
accounted for as purchase business combinations. The Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements include the results of operations of the acquired
companies since their respective acquisitions.  

4.                 STOCK-BASED EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION       

  The
Company has adopted the following stock compensation plans from which broad-based
employee grants may be made:  the priceline.com Incorporated 1997 Omnibus
Plan (the  1997 Plan ), the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (the
 1999 Plan ) and the priceline.com Incorporated 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan
(the  2000 Plan ), each of which provides for grants of share-based
compensation as incentives and rewards to encourage employees, officers,
consultants and directors in the long-term success of the Company.  The 1997 Plan, 1999 Plan and 2000 Plan
provide for grants of share-based compensation to purchase up to 3,979,166,
9,195,833 and 1,000,000 shares of priceline.com common stock, respectively, at
a purchase price equal to the fair value on the date of grant.  

Stock-based
compensation issued under the plans generally consists of restricted stock
units, performance share units, restricted stock and non-qualified stock
options.  Stock options are granted to
employees at exercise prices equal to the fair value of the common stock at the
date of grant and have a   

112    

Table of Contents   

term of 10 years.  Generally, stock option grants to employees
vest over three years from the grant date. 
Restricted stock, performance share units and restricted stock units
generally vest over periods from 1 to 4 years. 
The Company issues new shares of common stock upon the issuance of
restricted stock, the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted
stock units and performance share units.  

Stock-based
compensation cost was approximately $40.7 million, $40.5 million and $16.3
million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Included in the
stock-based compensation cost are approximately $1.1 million, $0.9 million, and
$0.8 million for grants to non-employee directors for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  The
related tax benefit is $4.9 million, $6.3 million and $5.3 million for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Also included in the above amounts for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 are stock-based compensation and
related tax benefits for restricted stock and restricted stock units related to
shares of priceline.com International.  

The
following table summarizes stock option activity during the year ended December 31,
2009:  

No
stock options were granted during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
or 2007.  The intrinsic value of stock
options exercised was approximately $61.9 million, $23.2 million and $46.5
million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  As of December 31, 2008,
all stock options were fully vested and exercisable.  

113    

Table of
Contents   

The
following table summarizes the activity of unvested restricted stock units (including
2009 grants that contained both service and market conditions), performance
share units and restricted stock during the years ended December 31, 2007,
2008 and 2009:  

The
Company granted 306,746, 292,812 and 520,090 restricted shares, performance
share units and restricted stock units during the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, with an aggregate grant-date fair value of
approximately $25.8 million, $32.0 million and $40.7 million,
respectively.  During the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, 578,730, 164,893 and 151,992 shares of share-based
awards vested with total grant date fair values of $16.9 million, $4.7 million
and $3.6 million, respectively.  

Additionally, in 2009, the
Company granted an aggregate of 47,186 restricted stock units to certain
executives.  The restricted stock units
will be forfeited if the Company s common stock does not achieve and maintain
certain stock price thresholds during the six month period preceding the March 2012
vesting date.  If during such six month
period the Company s common stock closes at or above the stock price of $97.05,
$104.69, or $113.03 for twenty (20) consecutive trading days, 50%, 75% or 100%,
respectively, of the RSUs will be earned pursuant to the market price
requirement.  Subject to certain
exceptions related to a change in control and terminations other than for
 cause,  or on account of death or disability, the executives must also
continue their service through March 3, 2012 in order to receive any shares
of the Company s common stock.  The RSUs
earned, if any, are payable in the Company s common stock upon vesting.  Stock-based compensation expense related to
an award with a market condition is recognized over the requisite service
period regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that
the requisite service period has been completed. The value of the Company s
stock on the date of grant was $82.65 per share.  The Company considered the  path dependent 
nature of the RSUs and determined the grant date fair value by replicating the
payout structure of the RSUs using a series of call options and cash-or-nothing
binary call options.  Cash-or-nothing
binary call options provide the holder with the right to receive the strike
price if the stock price exceeds the strike price as of the expiration
date.  The fair value calculation
included the following assumptions:  a
1.36% annualized risk-free interest rate, a calculated three year historical
volatility of 55.95%, no dividends, and an expected term equal to the three
year vesting period.  The award had a
total grant date fair value of $2.4 million based on a grant date fair value of
$51.11 per share.  The fair value of a
grant subject to a market condition is generally lower than an award with only
a service condition for vesting since the market condition may never be met.  

114    

Table of Contents   

As
of December 31, 2009, there is $53.4 million of total future compensation
cost related to unvested Share-Based Awards to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.6 years.  

Stock-based
compensation for performance share units is recorded based on the estimated
probable outcome if the Company, and with respect to certain grants, its
subsidiaries, priceline.com International and Agoda, achieve certain financial
goals at the end of the performance period. 
The actual number of shares to be issued will be determined upon completion
of the performance period, assuming there is no accelerated vesting for, among
other things, a termination of employment under certain circumstances, or a
change in control.  

2008
Grants   

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, stock based awards included grants of
183,067 performance share units at an average grant date fair value of $114.11
per share.  The actual number of shares
will be determined in 2012 upon completion of the performance period.  

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were 167,259 and 176,459 unvested performance
share units outstanding, net of actual forfeitures and vesting,
respectively.  During the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008, the number of estimated probable shares to be issued at the end
of the performance period decreased by 57,586 shares and increased by 120,027
shares, respectively.  

As
of December 31, 2009, the estimated number of probable shares to be issued
is a total of 212,014 shares.  If the
maximum performance thresholds are met at the end of the performance period, a
maximum number of 452,438 total shares could be issued.  

2007
Grants   

During
the year ended December 31, 2007, stock based awards included grants of
276,100 performance share units at an average grant date fair value of $97.63
per share.  The actual number of shares
issued will be determined in 2011 upon completion of the performance period.  

At
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, there were 238,582 shares, 240,082
shares, and 276,110 shares of unvested performance share units outstanding, net
of actual forfeitures and vesting, respectively.  During the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, the number of estimated probable shares to be issued at
the end of the performance period increased by 1,332 shares, 91,310 shares and
381,440 shares, respectively.  

As
of December 31, 2009, the estimated number of probable shares to be issued
is a total of 638,664 shares.  If the
maximum performance thresholds are met at the end of the performance period, a
maximum number of 654,688 total shares could be issued.  

115    

Table of Contents   

5.                 INVESTMENTS  

The
following table summarizes, by major security type, the Company s short-term investments
as of December 31, 2009 (in thousands):  

Long-term
investments amounting to $0.4 million and $0.2 million as of December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively, comprised of corporate notes with a maturity date
greater than one year, are included in  Other assets  on the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  During the
year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary
impairment in the value of a corporate note included in long-term investments
in the amount of $0.8 million.  The loss
is recorded in  Foreign currency transactions and other  in the Company s
Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
There were no material realized gains or losses related to investments
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

The
following table summarizes, by major security type, the Company s short-term
investments as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):  

6.                 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  

Financial
assets carried at fair value as of December 31, 2009 are classified in the
table below in the categories described below (in thousands):  

116    

Table of
Contents   

Financial
assets carried at fair value as of December 31, 2008 are classified in the
table below in the categories described below (in thousands):  

There
are three levels of inputs to measure fair value.  The definition of each input is described
below:  

Level 1:            Quoted prices in active
markets that are accessible by the Company at the measurement date for
identical assets and liabilities.  

  Level 2:            These prices are not
directly accessible by the Company.  Such
prices may be based upon quoted prices in active markets or inputs not quoted
on active markets, but corroborated by market data.  

  Level 3:            Unobservable inputs are used
when little or no market data is available.  

Fair
values for investments in U.S. Treasury and foreign government securities are
considered  Level 1  valuations because the Company has access to quoted prices
in active markets as of the measurement date.  
Fair values for other investments are considered  Level 2 
instrument valuations because they are obtained from professional pricing
sources for these or comparable instruments, rather than direct observation of
quoted prices in active markets.  As of December 31,
2009 and 2008, the Company did not have any  Level 3  assets or liabilities
without observable market values that would require a high level of judgment to
determine fair value. The Company s derivative instruments are valued using
pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms as well as
multiple inputs where applicable, such as interest rate yield curves, option
volatility and currency rates. The Company s derivative instruments are
typically short-term in nature.  

As
of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying value of the Company s cash
and cash equivalents approximated their fair value and consisted primarily of
U.S. Treasury money market funds, foreign government securities and bank
deposits.  Other financial assets and
liabilities, including restricted cash, accounts receivable, accrued expenses
and deferred merchant bookings are carried at cost which also approximates
their fair value because of the short-term nature of these items.  See Note 5 for information on the carrying
value of investments and Note 12 for the estimated fair value of the Company s
Senior Notes.  

In the normal course of business, the Company is
exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations.  The Company limits these risks by following
established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of
derivatives.  See Note 2 for further information
on our accounting policy for derivative financial instruments.  

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments      There were
no derivative contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2009.  As of December 31, 2008, derivatives
with a notional value of 25.0 million Euros were outstanding.  Foreign exchange losses of $2.7 million for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and foreign exchange gains of
$4.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 were recorded
in  Foreign currency transactions and other  in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.  Foreign exchange derivative
assets of $7.5 million at December 31, 2008 were recorded in  Prepaid
expenses and other current assets  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  The settlement of derivative contracts for
the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted in a net cash inflow of $5.2
million and is classified within  Net cash provided by operating activities  on
the cash flow statement.  

117    

Table of
Contents   

Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments      As of December 31,
2009, the Company has outstanding foreign currency forward contracts for 183.4
million Euros to hedge a portion of its net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
These contracts are all short-term in nature. Hedge ineffectiveness is assessed
and measured based on changes in forward exchange rates. Derivative assets at December 31,
2009 of $8.0 million are recorded in  Prepaid expenses and other current
assets  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2009, a
mark-to-market net gain after tax of $1.8 million is recorded in  Accumulated
other comprehensive loss  as currency translation adjustments. A cash outflow
of $5.0 million for contracts that have settled for the year ended December 31,
2009 is reported within  Net cash used in investing activities  on the cash
flow statement.  

7.                 ACCOUNTS
RECEIVABLE RESERVES  

The
Company records a provision for uncollectible agency commissions, principally
receivables from hotels related to agency reservations. The Company also accrues
for costs associated with purchases made on its websites by individuals using
fraudulent credit cards and for other amounts  charged back  as a result of
payment disputes. Changes in accounts receivable reserves consisted of the
following (in thousands):  

The
decrease in the bad debt provision in 2009 was due to improved collection rates
for agency commissions from hotels and a lower level of chargeback activity for
Agoda. In 2008, the Company incurred $1.5 million of credit card chargebacks
associated with the bankruptcy of two airline suppliers.  

8.                 NET INCOME PER SHARE  

The
Company computes basic net income per share by dividing net income by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted
net income per share is based upon the weighted average number of common and
common equivalent shares outstanding during the period.  

Common
equivalent shares related to stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock
units, and performance share units are calculated using the treasury stock
method. Performance share units are included in the weighted average common
equivalent shares based on the number of shares that would be issued if the end
of the reporting period were the end of the performance period, if the result
would be dilutive.  

The
Company s convertible debt issues have net share settlement features requiring
the Company upon conversion to settle the principal amount of the debt for cash
and the conversion premium for cash or shares of the Company s common stock. The
convertible notes are included in the calculation of diluted net income per
share if their inclusion is dilutive under the treasury stock method.  

118    

Table of
Contents   

A
reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares outstanding used in
calculating diluted earnings per share is as follows (in thousands):  

Anti-dilutive
potential common shares for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007 include approximately 1.5 million shares, 4.0 million shares and 7.9
million shares, respectively, that could be issued under the Company s
convertible debt if the Company experiences substantial increases in its common
stock price. Under the treasury stock method, the convertible notes will
generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share if the Company s
average stock price for the period exceeds the conversion price for the
convertible notes. The Company has Conversion Spread Hedges outstanding that increase
the effective conversion price of the Company s Convertible Senior Notes due September 30,
2011 and September 30, 2013 from $40.38 to $50.47 per share from the
Company s perspective and are designed to reduce potential dilution upon
conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes at maturity (See Note 12). 
Since the beneficial impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is anti-dilutive,
it is excluded from the calculation of net income per share.  

9.                 PROPERTY AND
EQUIPMENT  

Property and equipment at December 31,
2009 and 2008 consists of the following (in thousands):  

Fixed
asset depreciation and amortization expense are approximately $14.5 million,
$14.4 million and $11.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.  

119    

Table of Contents   

10.               INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND
GOODWILL  

The Company s intangible assets
consist of the following (in thousands):  

Intangible assets with
determinable lives are amortized on a straight-line basis. Intangible assets
amortization expense is approximately $24.7 million, $28.8 million and $25.7
million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  

The annual estimated
amortization expense for intangible assets for the next five years and
thereafter is expected to be as follows (in thousands):  

A substantial portion of the
intangible assets relate to our Booking.com business.  

120    

Table of
Contents   

A
rollforward of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008
consists of the following (in thousands):  

A
substantial amount of the Company s goodwill relates to its acquisition of Booking.com.
Impairment tests performed in 2009 and 2008 did not result in any adjustments
to the carrying values of goodwill.  

11.               OTHER
ASSETS  

Other assets at December 31,
2009 and 2008 consist of the following (in thousands):  

Investment in pricelinemortgage.com represented the Company s 49%
equity investment in pricelinemortgage.com and, accordingly, the Company
recognized its pro rata share of pricelinemortgage.com s operating results, not
to exceed an amount that the Company believed represented the investment s
estimated fair value. The Company recognized approximately $2,000 in income and
$310,000 and $321,000 of losses from its investment in pricelinemortgage.com for
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and 2007, respectively. The
Company earned an insignificant amount of advertising fees from
pricelinemortgage.com for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007. In July 2009, pricelinemortgage.com was dissolved and the Company
received cash of $8.9 million for its proportionate share of the equity.  

Deferred debt issuance costs arose from the Company s issuance of $100
million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% Notes in September 2004,
$172.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% Notes in September 2006,
$172.5 million of aggregate principal amount 0.75% Notes in September 2006
and a $175 million revolving credit facility in September 2007. Deferred
debt issuance costs are being amortized using the effective interest rate
method over the term of approximately five years, except for the 0.75% Notes,
which are amortized over their term of seven years. The period of amortization
for the Company s debt issue costs was determined at inception of the related
debt agreements to be the stated maturity date or the first stated put date, if
earlier. Debt issuance costs written off in the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008 related to early conversion of convertible debt amounted to $1.2
million and $0.3 million, respectively.  

121    

Table of Contents   

Long-term investments amounting to $0.4 million and $0.2 million as of December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively, were comprised of corporate notes with a maturity
date greater than one year.  

12.               DEBT  

Revolving Credit Facility   

In
September 2007, the Company entered into a $175 million five-year
committed revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, which is secured,
subject to certain exceptions, by a first-priority security interest on
substantially all of the Company s assets and related intangible assets located
in the United States.  In addition, the Company s obligations under the revolving
credit facility are guaranteed by substantially all of the assets and related
intangible assets of the Company s material direct and indirect domestic and
foreign subsidiaries. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear
interest, at the Company s option, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association s prime lending rate and (b) the federal
funds rate plus   of 1%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%;
or at an adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such
borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. Undrawn
balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to
commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.375%.  

The
revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $50.0 million of
letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as
swingline loans, which are available in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling
and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders. The proceeds of loans
made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate
purposes. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were no borrowings
outstanding under the facility. The Company issued approximately $2.4 million
and $2.3 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Convertible Debt   

Convertible
debt as of December 31, 2009 consists of the following (in thousands)  :  

Convertible
debt as of December 31, 2008 consisted of the following (in thousands):  

122    

Table of Contents   

Based
upon the closing price of the Company s common stock for the prescribed
measurement periods during the three months ended December 31, 2009 and
2008, the contingent conversion thresholds on each of the Company s convertible
senior notes were exceeded. As a result, the notes are convertible at the
option of the holder as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and, accordingly,
have been classified as a current liability or convertible debt in mezzanine on
the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of those dates. The determination
of whether or not the notes are convertible must continue to be performed on a
quarterly basis. Consequently, the convertible debt may not be convertible in
future quarters, and therefore may again be classified as long-term debt, if
the contingent conversion thresholds are not met in such quarters. In cases
where holders decide to convert prior to the maturity date or first stated put
date, the Company writes off the proportionate amount of remaining debt
issuance costs to interest expense. If the note holders exercise their option
to convert, the Company would deliver cash to repay the principal amount of the
notes and would deliver cash or shares of common stock, at its option, to
satisfy the conversion value in excess of the principal amount.  

In
the year ended December 31, 2009, $94.6 million aggregate principal amount
of 2011 Notes, $25.5 million aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes and $77.0
million of the 2.25% Notes were converted. The Company delivered cash of $197.1
million to repay the principal amount and issued 3,583,751 shares in
satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. In January 2010,
the Company exercised its right to redeem the 2.25% Notes; however, all of the
holders of the then outstanding Notes tendered their notes for conversion prior
to the redemption date. Additionally, based upon conversion notices received
through February 18, 2010, notes with an outstanding principal amount of
$75 million will be converted during the three months ended March 31,
2010.  

As
of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the estimated market value of the
outstanding senior notes was approximately $1.1 billion and $742 million,
respectively. Fair value was estimated based upon actual trades at the end of
the reporting period or the most recent trade available as well as the
Company s stock price at the end of the reporting period. Substantially all of
the market value of the Company s debt in excess of the carrying value relates
to the conversion premium on the bonds.  

Description of Senior Notes   

In
2006, the Company issued in a private placement $172.5 million aggregate
principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011, with
an interest rate of 0.50% (the  2011 Notes ), and $172.5 million aggregate
principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013, with
an interest rate of 0.75% (the  2013 Notes ). The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes
are convertible, subject to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock
at a conversion price of approximately $40.38 per share. The 2011 Notes and the
2013 Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, prior to June 30,
2011 in the case of the 2011 Notes, and prior to June 30, 2013 in the case
of the 2013 Notes, upon the occurrence of specified events, including, but not
limited to a change in control, or if the closing sale price of the Company s
common stock for at least 20 consecutive trading days in the period of the 30
consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately
preceding calendar quarter is more than 120% of the applicable conversion price
in effect for the notes on the last trading day of the immediately preceding
quarter. In the event that all or substantially all of the Company s common
stock is acquired on or prior to the maturity of the 2011 Notes or the 2013
Notes, in a transaction in which the consideration paid to holders of the
Company s common stock consists of all or substantially all cash, the Company
would be required to make additional payments in the form of additional
shares of common stock to the holders of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes,
collectively, in aggregate value ranging from $0 to approximately $29.5 million
depending upon the date of the transaction and the then current stock price of
the Company.  No additional payments are due at stock prices in excess of
$100 per share. As of June 30, 2011, with respect to the 2011 Notes, and
as of June 30, 2013, with respect to the 2013 Notes, holders shall have
the right to convert all or any portion of such security. Neither the 2011
Notes nor the 2013 Notes may be redeemed by the Company prior to maturity.
The holders may require the Company to repurchase the 2011 Notes and the
2013 Notes for cash in certain circumstances. Interest on the 2011 Notes and
the 2013 Notes is payable on March 30 and September 30 of each year.  

123    

Table of Contents   

In
2006, the Company entered into hedge transactions relating to potential
dilution of the Company s common stock upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and
the 2013 Notes (the  Conversion Spread Hedges ). Under the Conversion Spread
Hedges, the Company is entitled to purchase from Goldman Sachs and Merrill
Lynch approximately 8.5 million shares of the Company s common stock (the
number of shares underlying the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes) at a strike
price of $40.38 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in
2011 and 2013, and the counterparties are entitled to purchase from the Company
approximately 8.5 million shares of the Company s common stock at a strike
price of $50.47 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in
2011 and 2013.  The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective
conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes to $50.47 per share from
the Company s perspective and are designed to reduce the potential dilution
upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. If the market value per
share of the Company s common stock at maturity is above $40.38, the Conversion
Spread Hedges will entitle the Company to receive from the counterparties net
shares of the Company s common stock based on the excess of the then current
market price of the Company s common stock over the strike price of the hedge
(up to $50.47). Holders of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes do not have any
rights with respect to the Conversion Spread Hedges. The Conversion Spread
Hedges are separate transactions entered into by the Company with the
counterparties, are not part of the terms of the Notes and will not affect
the holders  rights under the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. The Conversion
Spread Hedges are exercisable at dates coinciding with the scheduled maturities
of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes. The Conversion Spread Hedges do not
immediately hedge against the associated dilution from conversions of the Notes
prior to their stated maturities.  Therefore, upon conversion of the 2011
Notes or the 2013 Notes, the Company has delivered or will be obligated to
immediately deliver any related conversion premium in shares of common stock or
a combination of cash and shares.  However, the hedging counterparties
will not be obligated to deliver the Company shares or cash that would offset
the dilution associated with the early conversion activity until 2011 and
2013.  Because of this potential timing difference, the number of shares,
if any, that the Company receives from its Conversion Spread Hedges could differ
materially from the number of shares, if any, that it is required to deliver to
holders of the Notes upon their early conversion.  This potential
difference in timing can potentially makes the hedges ineffective, which could
negatively impact the Company s future diluted shares outstanding and diluted
earnings per share.  

The
$100 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due January 15,
2025, with an interest rate of 2.25% (the  2.25% Notes ) were convertible,
subject to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion
price of approximately $37.95 per share. The 2.25% Notes were convertible if,
on or prior to January 15, 2020, the closing sale price of the Company s
common stock for at least 20 consecutive trading days in the period of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the first day of a conversion period is more
than 120% of the then current conversion price of the 2.25% Notes. The 2.25%
Notes were also convertible in certain other circumstances, such as a change in
control of the Company. In addition, the 2.25% Notes were redeemable at the
Company s option beginning January 20, 2010, and the holders
could require the Company to repurchase the 2.25% Notes on January 15,
2010, 2015 or 2020, or in certain other circumstances. Interest on the 2.25%
Notes is payable on January 15 and July 15 of each year. As discussed
above, the Company exercised its right to redeem the then outstanding 2.25%
Notes in January 2010; however, all of the holders of the then outstanding
Notes tendered their notes for conversion prior to the redemption date.  

Adoption of New Accounting Standard for Cash Settled Convertible Debt   

On
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the
accounting standard that requires cash settled convertible debt, such as the
Company s convertible senior notes, to be separated into debt and equity
components at issuance and a value to be assigned to each. The value assigned
to the debt component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of
a similar bond without the conversion feature. The difference between the bond
cash proceeds and this estimated fair value, representing the value assigned to
the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount. Debt discount is
amortized using the effective interest method over the period from origination
or modification date through the earlier of the first stated   

124    

Table
of Contents   

put date or the stated
maturity date.   The adoption of this new accounting standard on
January 1, 2009, required retrospective application for all prior periods
presented (see Note 2 for information regarding the adjustments).  

The
Company estimated the straight debt borrowing rates at debt origination or
modification (the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes were structured requiring net cash
settlement at issue in 2006 and the 1% Notes and the 2.25% Notes were modified
to provide for net cash settlement in 2006) to be 7.75% for the 2010 Notes,
2011 Notes and 2.25% Notes and 8.0% for the 2013 Notes. The yield to maturity
was estimated at an at-market coupon priced at par. The straight debt borrowing
rate for the 2.25% Notes was based upon an effective maturity date of January 15,
2010 because on that date the 2.25% Notes were redeemable and the holders could
require the Company to repurchase these notes. The straight debt borrowing rate
for the 1% Notes was based upon an effective maturity date of August 1,
2008 because on that date these notes were redeemable at the option of the
Company or the holders. All $125 million aggregate principal amount of the 1%
Notes was converted during 2008.  

Since
all of the notes are convertible as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 at the
option of the holder and terms of the notes require that the principal amount
be settled in cash, the Company made a reclassification from permanent equity
to mezzanine (shown as  Convertible debt  between total liabilities and
stockholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheets). The amount reported
as convertible debt in mezzanine plus the current liability for convertible
debt represents the Company s total principal outstanding at each reporting
period. The carrying value of the remaining permanent equity component reported
in additional paid-in capital related to the convertible notes was a credit of
$26.7 million and a charge of $0.5 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  

For
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized
interest expense of $22.1 million, $33.4 million and $37.0 million,
respectively, related to convertible notes, comprised of $2.9 million, $4.6
million and $5.7 million, respectively, for the contractual coupon interest,
$18.2 million, $26.7 million and $28.8 million, respectively, related to the
amortization of debt discount and $1.0 million, $2.1 million and $2.5 million,
respectively, related to the amortization of debt issuance costs. The remaining
period for amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs is the stated
maturity dates for the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes and January 2010 for the
2.25% Notes, which is the first stated put date. The effective interest rates
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are 8.5%, 8.5% and
8.3%, respectively.  

In   addition, if the
Company s convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity, a gain
or loss on extinguishment will be recognized. The gain or loss is the
difference between the fair value of the debt component immediately prior to
extinguishment and its carrying value. To
estimate the fair value at each conversion date, the Company used an applicable
LIBOR rate plus an applicable credit default spread based upon the Company s
credit rating at the respective conversion dates. In the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008, the Company recognized a loss of
$1.0 million ($0.6 million after tax) and a gain of $6.0 million ($3.6 million
after tax), respectively, in  Foreign currency transactions and other  in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, the Company
wrote-off unamortized debt issuance costs of $1.2 million and $0.3 million for
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to interest
expense related to the debt conversions. For the year ended December 31,
2007, there were no debt conversions subject to the provisions of this new
accounting standard.  

13.               TREASURY STOCK  

In
the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $50 million of the Company s common stock from time to time
in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In addition, in the
third quarter of 2006, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to an additional $150 million of the Company s common stock
with a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Notes and the 2013
Notes. The Company s Board  

125    

Table of Contents   

of Directors has also given the Company the
general authorization to repurchase shares of its common stock to satisfy
employee withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation.  

Under
these programs, the Company repurchased approximately 4.1 million shares of its
common stock at an aggregate cost of $134.7 million in the year ended December 31,
2006, at prevailing market prices. Repurchases of 180,071, 38,640 and 43,358
shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $17.4 million, $4.4 million and
$2.6 million were made in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively, to satisfy employee obligations related to stock-based
compensation.  

The
Company may make additional repurchases of shares under its stock
repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses
of capital and other factors. Whether and when to initiate and/or complete any
purchase of common stock and the amount of common stock purchased will be
determined in the Company s complete discretion. As of December 31, 2009,
there were approximately 6.9 million shares of the Company s common stock held
in treasury.  

14.               REDEEMABLE
PREFERRED STOCK  

There
  were   13,470 shares of Series B Preferred Stock
outstanding as of December 31, 2006, with an aggregate liquidation
preference of approximately $13.5 million and a semi-annual dividend
requirement of 40,240 shares of common stock. In the first quarter of 2007,
Delta Air Lines, Inc. exercised warrants to purchase 756,199 shares of the
Company s common stock by surrendering 13,470 shares of Series B Preferred
Stock, representing all of the remaining outstanding shares of Series B
Preferred Stock. In the three months ended March 31, 2007, the Company
issued a final pro-rated dividend to Delta Airlines, Inc. in the amount of
34,874 shares of common stock. The exercise of the warrant was a non-cash
transaction. The Company recorded non-cash dividends of approximately $1.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

15.           NONCONTROLLING
INTERESTS  

In
connection with the Company s acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005
and Booking.com Limited in September 2004 and the reorganization of its
European operations, key managers of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited
purchased shares of priceline.com International. In addition, these key
managers were granted restricted stock and restricted stock units in
priceline.com International shares that vested over time.  

The
holders of the noncontrolling interests in priceline.com International had the
right to put their shares to the Company and the Company had the right to call
their shares at a purchase price reflecting the fair value of the shares at the
time of the exercise of the put or call right.  Subject to certain
exceptions, the shares were subject to the put and call options in March and
August 2008.  In April 2008, in connection with the March 2008
put and call options, the Company repurchased 62,020 shares underlying
noncontrolling interests for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $30.9
million based upon fair value. In September 2008, in connection with the August 2008
put and call options, the Company repurchased all of the remaining outstanding
253,693 shares underlying noncontrolling interests for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $123.2 million based upon fair value. In 2007 and 2006,
the Company repurchased shares underlying noncontrolling interests for an
aggregate purchase price of $76.0 million and $19.8 million, respectively,
based upon fair value. As a result of the September 2008 purchase, there
were no longer any noncontrolling interests in priceline.com International. The
purchases have been accounted for as step acquisitions and accordingly, the
excess of the purchase price over the carrying value was recorded as an increase
of intangible assets, deferred income taxes and goodwill.  

126    

Table of Contents   

The
Company established the fair value of the noncontrolling interests
approximately every six months coinciding with the purchases of the
noncontrolling interests. The fair value was established using standard
valuation techniques (such as discounted cash flow analysis, industry peer
comparable analysis, relative contribution analysis and price to earnings
growth analysis).  

Concurrent
with the adoption of the new accounting standard for noncontrolling interests,
the accounting guidance required that redeemable noncontrolling interests be
stated at fair value and reported as mezzanine on the balance sheet on a
retrospective basis for presentation purposes. We relied on the semi-annual
valuations coinciding with the purchases of the noncontrolling interests to
estimate the fair value of any remaining outstanding noncontrolling interests
at each reporting period for this retrospective presentation. Changes in the
fair value of the remaining noncontrolling interests were recorded as equity
adjustments. See Note 2 for the impact of adopting this new accounting standard
and the reconciliation of the change in redeemable noncontrolling interests
(temporary equity) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007.  

16.               INCOME TAXES  

Domestic pre-tax income was
$113.9 million, $66.1 million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Foreign pre-tax income was $328.4 million,
$210.0 million and $119.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.  

The  income tax expense (benefit) for the year ended December 31, 2009 is
as follows (in thousands): 

The
income tax expense (benefit)   for the year ended   December 31, 2008 is
as follows (in thousands):  

127    

Table of Contents   

The  income tax expense (benefit) for the year ended December 31, 2007 is
as follows (in thousands): 

At
December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $2.8 billion of net
operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes ( NOLs ),
comprised of $0.8 billion of NOLs generated from operating losses and
approximately $2.0 billion of NOL tax benefits generated from equity-related
transactions, including equity-based compensation and stock warrants, mainly
expiring from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2021.  The utilization of these NOLs is subject to
limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and is also
dependent upon the Company s ability to generate sufficient future taxable
income.  

Section 382
imposes limitations on the availability of a company s net operating losses
after a more than 50 percentage point ownership change occurs.  The Section 382 limitation is based upon
certain conclusions pertaining to the dates of ownership changes and the value
of the Company on the dates of the ownership changes.  It was determined that ownership changes, as
defined in Section 382, occurred in 2000 and 2002.  The amount of the Company s net operating
losses incurred prior to each ownership change is limited based on the value of
the Company on the respective dates of ownership change.  It is estimated that the effect of Section 382
will generally limit the total cumulative amount of net operating loss
available to offset future taxable income to approximately $1.4 billion.  Pursuant to Section 382, subsequent
ownership changes could further limit this amount.  

The Company periodically
evaluates the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduces
the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to
the extent it believes a portion will not be realized.  The Company considers many factors when
assessing the likelihood of future realization of the deferred tax assets,
including its recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction,
expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available for tax
reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded a
non-cash income tax benefit of $47.9 million resulting from the reversal of a
portion of its valuation allowance on its domestic deferred tax assets. 
In addition, the Company recognized $3.6 million of deferred tax assets in 2007
related to foreign capital allowance deductions that are considered more likely
than not to be realized.  In the three
months ended September 30, 2009, management concluded that it was more
likely than not that additional deferred tax assets would be realized.  This determination was based upon actual and
projected future operating results in our domestic business, as well as recent
stabilization in U.S. economic conditions, including hotel occupancy rates and
average daily rates.  Accordingly, the
Company recorded a non-cash income tax benefit of $182.3 million in the year
ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the reversal of the remaining
portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to NOLs
generated from domestic operating losses. 
In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company
recorded a non-cash income tax benefit of $1.0 million resulting from a
reversal of a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to foreign
operating loss carryforwards based on the Company s assessment that it is more
likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized.   

128    

Table of Contents   

The deferred tax asset at December 31,
2009 and 2008 amounted to $319.7 million and $166.1 million, respectively, net
of the valuation allowance recorded.  The
short-term and long term portion at December 31, 2009 was $66.0 million
and $253.7 million, respectively, compared with $12.1 million and $154.0
million, respectively, at December 31, 2008.  Included in the short-term portion is a
domestic deferred tax liability of $29.9 million associated with the adoption
of the new accounting standard related to our convertible debt (see Note 2 for
further details).  

The Company has recorded a non-current
deferred tax liability in the amount of $43.8 million and $48.9 million at December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily related to the assignment of fair value
to certain purchased identifiable intangible assets associated with the
acquisitions of Booking.com Limited, Booking.com B.V., and priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as Agoda Company, Ltd).  

The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as
follows (in thousands):  

The
U.S. net operating loss carryforward, net of Section 382 disallowance, includes
approximately $141.2 million of deferred tax asset attributable to federal tax
deductions related to equity transactions. 
Additionally, since January 1, 2006, the Company has generated
additional federal tax benefits of $54.3 million related to equity transactions
that are not included in the deferred tax asset table above. Pursuant to
accounting guidance, the aforementioned tax benefits related to equity
deductions will be recognized by crediting paid in capital, if and when they
are realized by reducing the Company s current income tax liability.  

Income
tax benefits in the amount of $1.3 million were recorded in 2007 resulting from
the impact on deferred taxes of enacted reductions in certain foreign statutory
tax rates.  

129    

Table of
Contents   

It
is the practice and intention of the Company to reinvest the earnings of its
non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. 
Thus at December 31, 2009, no provision had been made for U.S.
taxes on approximately $0.5 billion of foreign earnings.  Estimating the tax liability that would arise
if these earnings were repatriated is not practicable at this time.  

At
December 31, 2009, the Company has approximately $510.1 million of state
net operating loss carryforwards that expire mainly between 2020 and 2021,
$89.1 million of foreign net operating loss carryforwards, of which $4.6
million expire in 2028 and 2029, and $5.1 million of foreign capital allowance
carryforwards that do not expire.  At December 31,
2009, the Company also had approximately $1.3 million of U.S. research credit
carryforwards that expire from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020
and are also subject to annual limitation.  

The effective income tax
rate of the Company is different from the amount computed using the expected
U.S. statutory federal rate of 35% as a result of the following items (in
thousands):  

(1)
 As adjusted for the adoption of new
accounting standard (See Note 2).  

The Company accounts for
uncertain tax positions based on a two step approach of recognition and
measurement.      The first step involves assessing whether the
tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination based
upon its technical merits.  The second
step involves measurement of the amount to recognize.  Tax positions that meet the more likely than
not threshold are measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater
than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate finalization with the taxing authority.  

The Company s U.K.,
Netherlands, U.S. Federal and Connecticut income tax returns, constituting the
returns of the major taxing jurisdictions, are subject to examination by the
taxing authorities for all open years as prescribed by applicable statute.  No income tax waivers have been executed that
would extend the period subject to examination beyond the period prescribed by
statute.  

17.               COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES  

Litigation
Related to Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes   

The
Company and certain third-party defendants are currently involved in
approximately forty-five lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and
counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes
(i.e., state and local sales tax) and the Company s  merchant  hotel business.  The Company is also involved in two consumer
lawsuits relating to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy taxes
and service fees.  In addition, over
fifty municipalities or counties, and at least two   

130    

Table of Contents   

states,
have initiated audit proceedings (including proceedings initiated by more than
forty municipalities in California), issued proposed tax assessments or started
inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e.,
state and local sales tax).  Additional
state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that the Company is subject
to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local
sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or
prospectively.  

With
respect to the principal claims in these matters, the Company believes that the
ordinances at issue do not apply to the service it provides, namely the
facilitation of reservations, and, therefore, that the Company does not owe the
taxes that are claimed to be owed. 
Rather, the Company believes that the ordinances at issue generally
impose hotel occupancy and other taxes on entities that either own, operate or
control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or
similar accommodations.  In addition, in
many of these matters, municipalities have typically asserted claims for
 conversion    essentially, that the Company has collected a tax and wrongfully
 pocketed  those tax dollars   a claim that the Company believes is without
basis and has vigorously contested.   The
municipalities that are currently involved in litigation and other proceedings
with the Company, and that may be involved in future proceedings, have asserted
contrary positions and will likely continue to do so.   

In
connection with some of these tax audits and assessments, the Company may be
required to pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to
being allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the
ordinances in judicial proceedings.  This
requirement is commonly referred to as  pay to play  or  pay first.   For example, the City of San Francisco
assessed the Company approximately $3.4 million (an amount that includes
interest and penalties) relating to hotel occupancy taxes, which the Company
paid in July 2009.  Payment of these
amounts, if any, is not an admission that the Company believes it is subject to
such taxes and, even if such payments are made, the Company intends to continue
to assert its position vigorously.  The
Company has successfully argued against a  pay first  requirement asserted in
another California proceeding, as discussed more fully below.  

Litigation
is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these
pending or future cases and proceedings. 
For example, in October 2009, a jury in a San Antonio class action
found that the Company and the other online travel companies that are defendants
in the lawsuit  control  hotels for purposes of the local hotel occupancy tax
ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject to the requirements of those
ordinances.  An unfavorable outcome or
settlement of pending litigation is likely to encourage the commencement of
additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an unfavorable outcome or
settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial
liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things,
interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  There have been, and will continue to be,
substantial ongoing costs, which may include  pay first  payments, associated with
defending the Company s position in pending and any future cases or
proceedings.  An adverse outcome in one
or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse effect on
the Company s business and results of operations and could be material to its
earnings or cash flow in any given operating period.  

To
the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that the Company has a
tax collection responsibility, or the Company determines that it has one, with
respect to future transactions, it may collect any such additional tax
obligation from its customers, which would have the effect of increasing the
cost of hotel room reservations to its customers and, consequently, could make
its hotel service less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online
travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation
transactions; alternatively, the Company could choose to reduce the
compensation for its services on  merchant  hotel transactions.  Either step could have a material adverse
effect on the Company s business and results of operations.  

The
Company estimates that, since its inception through December 31, 2009, it
has earned aggregate gross profit, including fees, from its entire U.S.
 merchant  hotel business (which includes, among other things, the differential
between the price paid by a customer for its service and the cost of the
underlying room) of approximately $900 million. 
This gross profit was earned in over a thousand taxing jurisdictions
that the Company believes have aggregate tax rates (which may include hotel
occupancy taxes, state and local taxes, among other taxes) associated with a
typical transaction between a consumer and a hotel that generally range from
approximately 6% to approximately 18%, depending on the jurisdiction.  In many of the judicial and other proceedings
initiated to date, municipalities seek not only historical taxes that are
claimed to be owed on the Company s gross profit, but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages
and/or attorney fees and costs.  The October 2009 jury verdict in the
San Antonio litigation and the related proceedings to determine, among other
things, the amount of penalties, interest and attorney s fees that could be
owed by the Company illustrate that any liability associated with hotel
occupancy tax matters is not constrained by the Company s liability for tax
owed on its historical gross profit.  To
date, the majority of the taxing jurisdictions in which the Company  

131    

Table of Contents   

facilitates
the sale of hotel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable
on the Company s U.S.  merchant  hotel business.  With respect to
municipalities that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that
they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax
statutes and seek to collect taxes from the Company only on a prospective
basis.  As a result of this litigation and other attempts by
jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, the Company has established a reserve for
the potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes
in the amount of approximately $21 million (which includes, among other things,
amounts related to the litigation in San Antonio).  The reserve is based
on the Company s reasonable estimate, and the ultimate resolution of these
issues may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities
recorded.  

Statewide Class Actions and Putative Class Actions   

A
number of cities and counties have filed class actions or putative class
actions on behalf of themselves and other allegedly similarly situated cities
and counties within the same respective state against the Company and other
defendants, including, but not in all cases, Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb
LLC, both of which are the Company s subsidiaries, and Hotels.com, L.P.;
Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.; Cheaptickets, Inc.; Travelport, Inc.
(f/k/a Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.); Expedia, Inc.;
Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com); Maupintour Holding LLC;
Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC; Travelocity.com, Inc.;
Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  Each complaint alleges, among other things,
that the defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax
ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes
under each ordinance.  Each complaint
typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law,
attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such
actions include:  

City
of Los Angeles v. Hotels.com, Inc., et al.   :  On December 30, 2004, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles
by the City of Los Angeles on behalf of itself and an alleged class of
California cities, counties and other municipalities that have enacted
occupancy taxes.  In addition to the tax
claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under California
Business and Professions Code   17200, et seq. ( Section 17200 ).  On August 31, 2005, the City of Los
Angeles filed an amended complaint adding a claim for a declaratory
judgment.  On September 26, 2005,
the court dismissed the amended complaint on grounds of improper joinder of
defendants and claims, with leave to file a second amended complaint.  On February 8, 2006, the City of Los
Angeles filed a second amended complaint that asserts the same claims but
includes additional allegations of fact. 
On March 27, 2006, at the direction of the court, the defendants
again asserted improper joinder of defendants and claims.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
a petition to coordinate this matter with the City of San Diego case (discussed
below).  On July 12, 2006, that
petition was granted, and, as a result, this case and the City of San Diego
case proceeded in the Superior Court of Los Angeles.  On January 17, 2007, the defendants
challenged the City of Los Angeles  second amended complaint on all issues
other than misjoinder of defendants and claims. 
On March 1, 2007, the court denied defendants  previously-filed
challenges based on improper joinder.  On
March 2, 2007, the City of Los Angeles filed a third amended
complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the
defendants filed renewed challenges to the third amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
these challenges and dismissed the City s third amended complaint without
prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City has begun but
has not yet completed those administrative procedures.  

City
of Rome, Georgia, et al., v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On November 18, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia by the City of Rome, Hart County and the City of
Cartersville on behalf of themselves and a putative class of Georgia cities,
counties and governments which have enacted transient occupancy taxes and/or
excise taxes on lodging.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of Georgia s
Uniform Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment,
a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On February 6, 2006, the Company and
certain other defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On May 8, 2006, the court granted
defendants  motion to  

132    

Table of Contents   

dismiss
all claims relating to the Georgia sales and use tax and denied defendants 
motion to dismiss the excise tax claims. 
The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on June 7, 2006 naming
additional plaintiffs.  On February 9,
2007, the defendants moved for summary judgment on the plaintiffs  claims for
plaintiffs  failure to exhaust the administrative procedures required by
Georgia law and by plaintiffs  respective ordinances.  On May 10, 2007, the court denied the
defendants  motion but concluded that plaintiffs were required to estimate,
assess and attempt to collect the taxes at issue.  The court stayed further litigation to permit
plaintiffs to comply with those administrative procedures.  On March 26, 2008, certain of the
plaintiffs in the  City of Rome  action sent the
defendants, including the Company and its subsidiaries, proposed assessments of
hotel occupancy tax.  The Company and its
subsidiaries promptly responded on March 31, 2008.  Certain of the plaintiffs in the  City of Rome  action sent the defendants, including the
Company and its subsidiaries, renewed assessments.  On July 10, 2009, the court lifted the
stay it had entered to require plaintiffs to pursue administrative
remedies.  In lifting the stay, the court
relied on recent Georgia Supreme Court rulings that the
administrative process in Georgia can be exhausted when a municipality
issues a notice of assessment. 
Thereafter, the parties agreed to continue the stay of the litigation,
except for limited discovery that would allow the parties to engage in
mediation of the case.  

Pitt
County v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On December 1, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the North Carolina General Court of Justice,
Superior Court Division by Pitt County on behalf of itself and a putative class
of North Carolina political subdivisions that impose occupancy taxes.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1, et
seq., conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On February 13, 2006, the defendants
removed this action to the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of North Carolina.  On March 13,
2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 29, 2007, the court denied
defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. 
On April 13, 2007, the defendants moved for reconsideration of that
decision or, in the alternative, interlocutory appeal.  On August 13, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion for reconsideration of the court s prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss, and dismissed the action in its entirety.  On September 6, 2007, Pitt County filed
a notice of appeal of that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit.  On January 14,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed the
district court s decision, rejecting Pitt County s tax claims.  On January 27, 2009, the County filed a
petition for re-hearing en banc.  On February 10,
2009, the petition for re-hearing en banc was denied.  The time for any further appeal has passed.  

City
of San Antonio, Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On May 8, 2006, a putative class action
complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Texas, San Antonio Division, by the City of San Antonio on behalf
of itself and putative classes of Texas municipalities.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claim for conversion and a declaratory judgment.  On June 30, 2006, the Company and other
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On August 28, 2006, the plaintiff moved for class
certification.  On October 30, 2006,
the plaintiff filed a first amended complaint that limited the putative classes
of Texas municipalities to 175 specifically enumerated municipalities that
plaintiff alleges to have hotel occupancy tax ordinances similar to that of the
plaintiff.  On March 21, 2007, the
court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the City of San Antonio s amended
complaint, and, on October 1, 2007, denied defendants  motion for
reconsideration of the court s denial of the motion to dismiss.  On May 27, 2008, the court granted the
City of San Antonio s motion to certify a class of 175 specifically enumerated
Texas municipalities that the City alleges to have hotel occupancy tax
ordinances similar to it.  On June 10,
2008, the defendants petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit for interlocutory review of the class certification decision,
which petition was denied on July 3, 2008. 
On August 12, 2008, the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave
to amend its complaint to add equitable claims of unjust enrichment, money had
and received, and for a constructive trust. 
Plaintiff amended its complaint on August 13, 2008 and the
defendants answered the amended complaint on August 27, 2008.  Following discovery, both plaintiffs and
defendants filed motions for summary judgment on March 30, 2009.  On September 28, 2009, the court granted
plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment on a number of defendants 
affirmative defenses, including laches,  

133    

Table of Contents   

waiver,
estoppel and statute of limitations, but denied summary judgment on all
remaining issues.  The matter proceeded
to trial on October 5, 2009.  

On
October 30, 2009, the jury reached a verdict that found that the Company
and the other on-line travel companies that are defendants in the lawsuit
 control  hotels under the occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are,
therefore, responsible for collecting and remitting local hotel occupancy
taxes.  The jury rejected the City of San
Antonio s claim for conversion   essentially, that the Company and the other
on-line travel companies had collected a tax and had wrongfully  pocketed 
those tax dollars   and for punitive damages.  

The
final amount of the judgment against the Company has not been determined.  The jury found that the Company and its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Travelweb LLC, owed the City of San Antonio and the
172 Texas municipalities that make up the class approximately $2.0 million for
historical damages through May of 2009. 
In further proceedings, the Court will determine, among other things,
whether the occupancy tax ordinance applies to the Company s service fee and
the amount of penalties, interest, and attorneys  fees, which could be
significant.  The Company recorded a
charge to general and administrative expenses in the amount of $3.7 million
related to this judgment in the twelve months ended December 31,
2009.  Because the Company believes that
the jury s decision is inconsistent with the ordinances and the evidence
presented at trial that it does not control hotels, the Company intends to
vigorously pursue its rights on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit.  

Lake
County Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc. and Marshall County v.
Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On June 12,
2006, a putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Indiana, Hammond Division, by the Lake County Convention
and Visitors Bureau and Marshall County on behalf of themselves and a putative
class of Indiana counties, convention and visitors bureaus and any other local
governments which have enacted or benefit from taxes on innkeepers.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and breach of fiduciary
duties.  On July 14, 2008, the court
denied the defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint.  On July 28, 2008, the defendants
answered the complaint.  On March 31,
2009, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment based on the plaintiffs 
failure to exhaust administrative remedies. 
Plaintiffs opposed the motion for summary judgment on May 11,
2009.  Oral argument on the motion was
heard on November 19, 2009; the parties are awaiting the decision on the
motion.  

Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On September 21, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District
of Kentucky by the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government on behalf of
itself and a putative class of Kentucky cities, counties and townships that
have enacted transient room taxes.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion,
money had and received, unjust enrichment, a constructive trust, and a
declaratory judgment.  On December 15,
2006, the plaintiff moved to amend the complaint to make certain changes to the
identity of the defendants. That motion was granted, and, on January 8,
2007, plaintiff filed its amended complaint. 
On January 17, 2007, defendants renewed their earlier motion to
dismiss with respect to the amended complaint. 
On August 10, 2007, the court denied the defendants  motion to
dismiss.  On September 13, 2007, the
defendants answered.  On October 26,
2007, the defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s order
denying the defendants  motion to dismiss, or, in the alternative,
certification of interlocutory appeal to the Kentucky Supreme Court or the
United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  On November 9, 2007, the plaintiff moved
to strike the defendants  motion for reconsideration.  On February 20, 2008, the
Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government ( Lexington ) filed a motion to
intervene in this action as an additional plaintiff, which the defendants did
not oppose.  On March 20, 2008,
Lexington s motion was granted, and its intervening complaint was filed on April 16,
2008.  Lexington s intervening complaint
makes substantially the same claims asserted by the Louisville/Jefferson County
Metro Government, except it does not seek to represent a class.  On March 21, 2008, the
Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government filed an unopposed motion to amend
its complaint to withdraw its allegations relating to the proposed
certification of a class and to make certain other changes to the alleged
facts.  That motion was  

134    

Table of Contents   

granted
on June 6, 2008 and the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government was
ordered to file an amended complaint.  On
May 16, 2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the intervening complaint
filed by the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government.  On September 30, 2008, the court granted
the defendants  motion for reconsideration of its prior order denying the
defendants  motion to dismiss the claims brought by the Louisville/Jefferson
County Metro Government, and dismissed all of that plaintiff s claims, with
prejudice.  The court also granted the
defendants  motion to dismiss the claims brought by the Lexington-Fayette Urban
County Government, with prejudice.  Both
plaintiffs filed notices of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit.  Briefing was completed on the
appeal on May 11, 2009, and oral argument took place on October 14,
2009.  The Sixth Circuit affirmed the
trial court s dismissal and judgment on December 22, 2009.  

County
of Nassau, New York v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On October 24, 2006, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of New York by Nassau County on behalf of itself and a putative class of New
York cities, counties and other local governmental entities that have imposed
hotel taxes since March 1, 1995.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for conversion,
unjust enrichment and a constructive trust. 
On January 31, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  On August 17, 2007, the
court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint for the County of
Nassau s failure to exhaust its mandatory administrative procedures for tax
collection.  On September 12, 2007,
the County of Nassau filed a notice of appeal of that order to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
On January 22, 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit heard oral argument on the County s appeal of the lower court s
order dismissing the action and ordered further briefing on certain
issues.  On August 11, 2009, the
Second Circuit vacated the lower court s order dismissing the complaint, and
remanded with instructions to consider whether the complaint meets specified
jurisdictional requirements.  On September 10,
2009, the Second Circuit denied the defendants  petition for rehearing.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery specific to class certification issues.  

City
of Jefferson, Missouri v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On June 27, 2007, a putative class action
complaint was filed in the Circuit Court of Cole County, Missouri by the City
of Jefferson, Missouri on behalf of itself and a putative class of Missouri
cities, counties and governments that have enacted taxes on lodging.  In addition to the claim for hotel taxes, the
complaint also asserted claims for violation of the Missouri Merchandising
Practices Act, conversion, unjust enrichment, declaratory judgment, breach of
fiduciary duties and a constructive trust. 
On November 5, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  On June 19, 2008, the
court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss as to the claim for violation
of the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act, and denied the remainder of the
motion, allowing the remaining claims to proceed.  On July 21, 2008, the defendants
answered the complaint.  On December 29,
2009, a settlement agreement among the parties was completed by the entry of a
stipulated court order of dismissal with prejudice.  

City
of Gallup, New Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On July 6, 2007, a putative class action
was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico by
the City of Gallup on behalf of itself and a putative class of New Mexico
taxing authorities that have enacted lodgers  taxes.  The complaint asserts claims for violation of
the New Mexico Lodger s Tax Act and municipal ordinances.  On August 27, 2007, the defendants
answered the City of Gallup s complaint. 
On January 8, 2009, plaintiffs filed a motion for class
certification and a motion for leave to amend the complaint.    The court granted the motion to amend on January 16,
2009.  On February 2, 2009,
defendants answered the first amended complaint.  After complete briefing, the court certified
a class on July 7, 2009.  On August 27,
2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit entered an order
denying defendants  petition to appeal the order certifying a class.  On September 22, 2009, plaintiffs filed
a motion for partial summary judgment. 
Defendants  opposition to the motion for partial summary was filed on November 13,
2009.  The court has since stayed
discovery in the case pending its decision on the motion for partial summary
judgment.  The parties have scheduled a
mediation for March 3, 2010.  

135    

Table of
Contents   

City
of Jacksonville v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  In July 2006, a putative class action
was filed in the Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial Circuit, in and for Duval
County, Florida, by the City of Jacksonville on behalf of itself and a putative
class of Florida counties that collect tourist development taxes and/or
convention development taxes and that have elected self administration of such
taxes.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, a
constructive trust, and a declaratory judgment. 
On August 21, 2007, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss
the complaint for the City of Jacksonville s failure to exhaust its mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection. On September 10, 2007, the
City of Jacksonville moved for a stay of proceedings pending the outcome of that
administrative process.  That motion was
denied on October 31, 2007 and the case was closed.  No appeal was taken by the City of
Jacksonville.  On July 1, 2008, the
City of Jacksonville filed a first amended complaint.  The proposed first amended complaint asserts
only a declaratory judgment claim related to the defendants  alleged liability
for tourist development taxes and/or convention development taxes.  On July 15, 2008, the defendants moved
to dismiss and to strike the amended complaint. 
On July 30, 2008, the plaintiff filed a motion to amend its
complaint.  On February 25, 2009,
the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint.  On March 10, 2009, plaintiff filed its first
amended complaint and, on April 24, 2009, the defendants answered the first
amended complaint.  The parties are
currently conducting discovery.  

The
City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.   :  On June 2, 2008, a putative class action
was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee by the City of Goodlettsville and the City of Brentwood, Tennessee on
behalf of themselves and a putative class of Tennessee political subdivisions
that impose an occupancy tax.  In
addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for unjust
enrichment and conversion.  On August 7,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.   On Oct. 2, 2008, the City of Brentwood,
Tennessee voluntarily dismissed its claims, and the case will proceed with the
City of Goodlettsville as the sole plaintiff. 
On March 31, 2009, the court denied defendants  motion to
dismiss.  On April 24, 2009,
defendants answered the complaint.  On December 21,
2009, the plaintiff moved for class certification, and the defendants opposed
on February 4, 2010.  The parties
are currently conducting discovery.  

The
Township of Lyndhurst, New Jersey v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.   :  On June 18, 2008, a putative class
action was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey by the Township of Lyndhurst on behalf of itself and a putative class of
New Jersey political subdivisions that impose hotel occupancy taxes.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, conversion, a constructive trust,
and a declaratory judgment.  On August 19,
2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 18, 2009, the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey granted defendants  motion to
dismiss the complaint with prejudice on the grounds that plaintiff lacked
standing to bring its claims.  On April 9,
2009, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeal for the Third Circuit.  On July 6,
2009, plaintiff filed their appellate brief. 
The defendants  answering brief was filed on August 5, 2009, and
the Township s reply brief was filed on August 19, 2009.  The Court of Appeal has elected to decide the
appeal without oral argument; the appeal remains pending.  

County
of Monroe, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc. et al   : 
On January 12, 2009, the County filed a purported class action
complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida. In addition to claims with respect to the application of the Tourist
Development Tax, the complaint also asserted claims for conversion, unjust
enrichment and injunctive relief.  On March 30,
2009, the Court dismissed the action because a scheduling report had not been
submitted to the Court.  Thereafter, on April 16,
2009, the plaintiff filed another complaint making the same substantive
allegations made in its previous complaint. 
On April 24, 2009, defendants moved to dismiss.  The court granted in part, and denied in
part, defendants  motion to dismiss on December 17, 2009 by dismissing the
plaintiff s claim for injunctive relief. On December 31, 2009, the
defendants answered the amended complaint. 
On January 4, 2010, plaintiff filed a motion for class
certification.  Defendants filed an
opposition to class certification on January 14, 2010; and plaintiff s
reply was filed on January 22, 2010. 
The court has set a trial date of July 19, 2010.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery.  

136    

Table of Contents   

County
of Genesee, MI, et al. v. Hotels.com LP, et al.   :  On February 24, 2009, the County filed a
purported class action on behalf of itself and three other Michigan counties in
the Circuit Court for the County of Ingham. The complaint asserts claims for
violation of hotel tax statutes and ordinances, conversion, and unjust
enrichment, and seeks imposition of a constructive trust and declaratory
judgment.  On June 29, 2009,
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.  Plaintiffs  response to the motion was filed August 14,
2009.  Oral argument on the motion was
held August 21, 2009.  On August 31,
2009, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint.  On September 21, 2009, defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
presently conducting discovery.  

Pine
Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission, Jefferson County, AR, et al. v.
Hotels.com, LP, et al.   : On September 30, 2009, Pine Bluff Advertising
and Promotion  Commission, Jefferson
County, Arkansas filed a purported class action complaint in the Circuit Court
of Jefferson County, Arkansas seeking declaratory relief and monetary damages
and alleging violations of accommodations tax laws and ordinances.  Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on December 4, 2009.  On January 19,
2010, the court granted defendants  motion based on plaintiffs  failure to
timely file an opposition.  The plaintiff
thereafter filed an opposition to the motion to dismiss on January 22,
2010, and requested that the court reconsider its dismissal of the action.  

County
of Lawrence v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On September 9, 2009, the County of
Lawrence, Pennsylvania filed a purported class action complaint in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.  On November 17, 2009, the plaintiff
voluntarily dismissed the federal case, but subsequently filed another
complaint, on November 20, 2009, in the Court of Common Pleas of Lawrence
County, Pennsylvania seeking declaratory and monetary damages relief, as well
as alleging violations of the Pennsylvania hotel occupancy tax code, conversion
and unjust enrichment.  The defendants 
response to the complaint is due March 9, 2010.  

The
Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the
proceedings described above.  

Actions Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities and Counties   

Several
cities, counties, municipalities and other political subdivisions across the
country have filed actions relating to the collection of hotel occupancy taxes
against the Company and other defendants, including, but not in all cases,
Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC, both of which are the Company s
subsidiaries, and Hotels.com, L.P.; Hotels.com GP, LLC; Hotwire, Inc.;
Cheaptickets, Inc.; Cendant Travel Distribution Services Group, Inc.;
Expedia, Inc.; Internetwork Publishing Corp. (d/b/a Lodging.com);
Maupintour Holding LLC; Orbitz, Inc.; Orbitz, LLC; Site59.com, LLC;
Travelocity.com, Inc.; Travelocity.com LP; and Travelnow.com, Inc.  In each, the complaint alleges, among other
things, that each of these defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective
hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of
amounts to cover taxes under each ordinance. 
Each complaint typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement,
penalties available by law, attorneys  fees and other relief.  Such actions include:  

City
of Findlay v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al    and  City of Columbus, et
al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al. :  On October 25,
2005, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Common Pleas Court of
Hancock County, Ohio by the City of Findlay on behalf of itself and a putative
class of Ohio cities, counties and townships that have enacted occupancy or
excise taxes on lodging.  In addition to
the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for violation of the Ohio
Consumer Sales Practices Act, conversion, a constructive trust and a declaratory
judgment.  On November 22, 2005, the
Company and certain other defendants removed this action to the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. On July 26, 2006, the
court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the Consumer Sales Practices Act
claims and denied defendants  motion to dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 8, 2006, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio by the cities of Columbus and Dayton on behalf of themselves
and a putative class of Ohio cities, counties and   

137    

Table of Contents   

townships.  In addition to the tax claims, the complaint
also asserts claims for unjust enrichment, money had and received, conversion,
a constructive trust and a declaratory judgment.  On July 10, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion to transfer the  City of Columbus 
case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio,
where the  City of Findlay  case is pending.  On July 23, 2007, the court granted
defendants  motion to dismiss the  City of Columbus 
plaintiffs  Consumer Sales Practices Act claims and denied defendants  motion
to dismiss the remaining claims.  On August 2,
2007, the City of Findlay filed a motion seeking leave to amend its complaint
to withdraw its allegations seeking to assert class-wide claims.  On August 15, 2007, the court granted
that motion and an amended complaint withdrawing those class allegations was
filed.  On August 31, 2007, the
defendants answered the  City of Columbus  complaint.  On September 4, 2007, the defendants
answered the  City of Findlay  amended
complaint.  On November 6, 2007, the
court granted the parties  joint motion to consolidate the  City of
Findlay  action with the  City of Columbus 
action for pre-trial purposes.  On February 19,
2008, the cities of Columbus, Dayton and Findlay moved to amend their
respective complaints to drop all class action allegations and to add nine
additional Ohio municipalities as plaintiffs. 
That motion was granted on February 27, 2008, and the plaintiffs 
first amended consolidated complaint was filed that day.  On March 26, 2008, the defendants moved
to dismiss the first amended consolidated complaint.  On June 19, 2008, the court denied the
defendants  motion.  On July 3,
2008, the defendants answered the first amended consolidated complaint.  On July 7, 2009, plaintiff amended the
complaint to add Franklin County Convention Authority as a plaintiff.  On July 17, 2009, defendants moved to
dismiss the new complaint.  The court
denied the motion on November 2, 2009. 
On October 23, 2009 defendants filed a motion to strike and/or
exclude the plaintiffs  expert.  On November 24,
2009 plaintiffs filed their opposition to defendants  motion to strike and/or
exclude their expert.  Defendants  reply was
filed on December 21, 2009.  That
motion remains pending.  

City
of Chicago, Illinois v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al   .:  On November 1, 2005, the City of
Chicago, Illinois filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook County,
Illinois.  In addition to the tax claims,
the complaint also asserts claims for conversion, imposition of a constructive
trust, and a demand for a legal accounting. 
On January 31, 2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint.  On September 27, 2007,
the court denied the defendants  motion to dismiss.  On November 2, 2007, the defendants
answered the complaint.  The parties are
currently conducting discovery.  

City
of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   :  On February 9, 2006, the City of San
Diego, California filed a complaint in Superior Court for the County of San
Diego, California.  In addition to the
tax claims, the complaint also asserts unfair competition claims under Section 17200.  On March 31, 2006, the defendants filed
a petition to coordinate this matter with the  City of Los
Angeles  case (discussed above). 
On July 12, 2006, that petition was granted, and, as a result, this
case was coordinated with the  City of Los Angeles 
action and will proceed in the Superior Court of Los Angeles.  As discussed above, on March 1, 2007,
the court denied defendants  previously-filed challenges to the City of Los
Angeles  second amended complaint on misjoinder grounds, which the parties
deemed applicable to the City of San Diego s complaint.  On January 17, 2007, the defendants
filed challenges to the City of San Diego s complaint on all issues other than
misjoinder of defendants and claims.  On March 8,
2007, the City of San Diego filed an amended complaint.  On April 11, 2007, the defendants filed
a renewed motion to dismiss the amended complaint.  On July 27, 2007, the court sustained
the defendants  challenges and dismissed the City s amended complaint without
prejudice to re-filing upon the exhaustion of the City s mandatory
administrative procedures for tax collection, and stayed the action pending
such exhaustion.  The City is presently
conducting those administrative procedures.  

City
of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   :  On March 29, 2006, the City of Atlanta,
Georgia filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia.  In addition to tax claims, the complaint also
asserts claims for a declaratory judgment, conversion, unjust enrichment, a
constructive trust and a demand for an equitable accounting.  On June 5, 2006, certain defendants,
including the Company and its subsidiaries, answered the complaint.  The parties proceeded to conduct
discovery.  On October 12, 2006, as
directed by the court, the defendants submitted briefs regarding the City of
Atlanta s failure to exhaust the administrative remedies dictated by Georgia
law and its own ordinance.  On   

138    

Table of Contents   

December 12,
2006, the court dismissed the City of Atlanta s action for lack of jurisdiction
because the City of Atlanta failed to exhaust mandatory administrative remedies
prior to bringing suit.  On January 10,
2007, the City of Atlanta filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal.  On October 26, 2007, the Georgia Court
of Appeals affirmed the order of the Georgia Superior Court.  On November 5, 2007, the City moved for
reconsideration of the October 26, 2007 opinion, and that motion was
denied on November 13, 2007.  On December 10,
2007, the City filed a petition for certiorari with the Georgia Supreme Court.
On May 20, 2008, the Georgia Supreme Court granted certiorari as to
certain questions raised by plaintiff from the October 26, 2007 decision
of the Georgia Court of Appeals affirming the dismissal of this action.  On September 8, 2008, the Georgia
Supreme Court heard oral argument on that appeal.  On March 23, 2009, the Georgia Supreme
Court reversed the lower court s dismissal allowing the claim for declaratory
relief to be returned to the lower court. 
On April 7, 2009, the Georgia Supreme Court denied the Company s
and other defendants  motion for reconsideration.  The Georgia Supreme Court remanded the case
to the lower court on May 23, 2009. 
On October 23, 2009, the City filed its first amended complaint.  On November 30, 2009, the defendants
filed an answer to the amended complaint. 
Dispositive motions must be filed on or before March 1, 2010.  

City
of Charleston, South Carolina v. Hotel.com, et al.   :  On April 26, 2006, the City of
Charleston, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas,
Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina. 
In addition to the tax claims, the complaint also asserts claims for
conversion, a constructive trust and a demand for a legal accounting.  On May 31, 2006, defendants removed the
case to the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina,
Charleston Division.  On July 7,
2006, the defendants answered the complaint. 
On January 23, 2007, the City of Charleston moved to amend the
complaint to assert claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade
Practices Act.   On April 23, 2007,
the court granted plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert
claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and
plaintiff amended its complaint to assert such claims on May 14,
2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court
granted defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  Town of Mount Pleasant  (discussed below).  On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to
dismiss the amended complaint.  On November 5,
2007, the court denied that motion.  A
trial date has been set for June 17, 2010, with dispositive motion
practice and mediation anticipated prior to that date.  

Town
of Mount Pleasant, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, et al.   :  On May 23, 2006, the Town of Mount
Pleasant, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas, Ninth
Judicial Circuit of South Carolina.  On July 21,
2006, the defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for
the District of South Carolina, Charleston Division.  On September 15, 2006, the defendants
answered the complaint.  On January 22,
2007, the Town of Mount Pleasant moved to amend the complaint to assert claims
arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.  On April 23, 2007, the court granted
plaintiff s motion for leave to amend its complaint to assert claims arising
under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, and plaintiff amended its
complaint to assert such claims on May 14, 2007.  On April 26, 2007, the court granted
defendants  unopposed motion to consolidate this case with  City of
Charleston  (discussed above). 
On June 4, 2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the amended
complaint.  On November 5, 2007, the
court denied that motion.  On November 30,
2007, the defendants answered the amended complaint.  A trial date has been set for June 17,
2010, with dispositive motion practice and mediation anticipated prior to that
date.  

City
of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On August 28, 2006, the City of North
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas,
Fifteenth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina. 
On October 27, 2006, the Company and certain other defendants
removed the case to the United States District Court for the District of South
Carolina, Florence Division.  On December 1,
2006, the defendants filed their motion to dismiss the complaint.  On September 30, 2007, the court denied
that motion.  On January 29, 2008,
the City of North Myrtle Beach moved to amend its complaint to assert claims
arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act.   On June 25, 2008, the court granted the
plaintiff s motion to amend its complaint to assert claims arising under the
South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act. 
On August 1, 2008, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint
asserting claims arising under the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices
Act.  On August 15,  

139    

Table of Contents   

2008,
the defendants answered the amended complaint. 
A trial date has been set for June 7, 2010, with dispositive motion
practice and mediation anticipated prior to that date.  

Wake
County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.; Dare County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.;
Buncombe County v. Hotels.com, LP, et al., and Mecklenburg County v. Hotels.com
LP, et al.   :  On November 3,
2006, Wake County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the General Court of
Justice, Superior Court Division, Wake County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for Room Occupancy
Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1,  et seq. ,
and breach of agency duties and statutory penalties. On January 31, 2007,
the defendants moved to dismiss this action. 
On February 1, 2007, the defendants moved to designate the case as
a complex business case subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina
Business Court, to which plaintiff consented and the case was transferred to
the Business Court.   On January 26,
2007, Dare County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court alleging
the same claim.  On February 1,
2007, Buncombe County, North Carolina filed a complaint in the same court.  The Buncombe complaint seeks a declaratory
judgment that the defendants are liable for occupancy taxes, as well as
supplemental relief including, without limitation, an accounting and a
determination of the amount of taxes due but unpaid.  On April 4, 2007, the  Wake County, Buncombe County and Dare County  actions were
consolidated for pre-trial purposes, and the following discussion applies to
all four actions.  On May 7, 2007,
the defendants moved to dismiss the  Dare County and Buncombe
County  actions.  On November 19,
2007, the court granted in part and denied in part the motions to dismiss the
three actions.  The court dismissed all
claims for conversion, all claim for violation of North Carolina General
Statute   75-1, et seq.  The remaining
claims brought by the other three plaintiffs survived the defendants 
motions.  On January 14, 2008,
Mecklenburg County filed a complaint in the General Court of Justice, Superior
Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.  In addition to the claim for room occupancy
taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment, an
injunction, conversion, imposition of a constructive trust, an accounting,
violation of North Carolina General Statute   75-1, et seq., and breach of
agency duties and statutory penalties. 
On February 19, 2008, the  Mecklenburg 
action was consolidated with the  Dare, Mecklenburg and Wake
County  actions for pre-trial purposes.  On March 26, 2008, defendants moved to
dismiss the Mecklenburg action.  On May 15,
2008, the court granted in part and denied in part the motion to dismiss.  The parties are currently completing
discovery.  

City
of Branson v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.   :  On December 28, 2006, the City of
Branson, Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Greene County,
Missouri.  In addition to the claim for
Tourism Taxes, the complaint also asserted claims for a declaratory judgment,
conversion and a legal accounting.  On April 23,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, and that motion was denied
on November 26, 2007.  The defendants
answered the complaint on December 20, 2007.  The parties are currently conducting
discovery.  

Horry
County, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   :  On February 2, 2007, Horry County, South
Carolina and the Horry County Administrator filed a complaint in the Court of
Common Pleas, Horry County.  The
complaint seeks a declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for
occupancy taxes and that the plaintiffs are entitled to other relief, including
penalties and interest.  On April 30,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On March 18, 2008, the court denied the
defendants  motion to dismiss.  On May 9,
2008, the defendants answered the complaint. 
On August 14, 2008, the defendants moved to dismiss the plaintiff s
declaratory judgment claims, and that motion was denied on September 17,
2008.  The parties are presently
conducting discovery.  

City
of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   : On February 2,
2007, the City of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina filed a complaint in the Court
of Common Pleas, Horry County.  The
complaint seeks a declaratory judgment that the defendants are liable for
occupancy taxes and that the plaintiff is entitled to other relief, including
penalties and interest.  On April 23,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On December 11, 2007, the court heard
argument on that motion, along with the motion in the Horry County action
(discussed above). On August 14, 2008, the defendants  

140    

Table of Contents   

moved
to dismiss the plaintiff s declaratory judgment claims, and that motion was
denied on September 17, 2008.  The
parties are presently conducting discovery.  

City
of Houston, Texas v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.   :  On March 5,
2007, the City of Houston, Texas filed a petition (i.e., a complaint) in
the District Court of Harris County, Texas.  In addition to the claim for
violation of the Houston hotel occupancy tax ordinance, the petition also
asserted claims for conversion, constructive trust, civil conspiracy, and a
legal accounting.  On April 30, 2007, the defendants filed special
exceptions, seeking to dismiss the petition.  On July 5, 2007,
the court denied in part and granted in part the defendants  challenges to the complaint. 
The court denied the challenges relating to the adequacy of the plaintiff s
allegations, but granted those that would require the plaintiff to state with
specificity the maximum amount of damages claimed.  On October 2,
2007, the City of Houston filed an amended petition adding the Harris
County Sports Authority as a plaintiff.  On October 15, 2007, the
Company and the other defendants filed renewed challenges to the complaint and
affirmative defenses.  On November 19, 2007, the court granted those
special exceptions. On January 22, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a second
amended petition.  On February 4, 2008, the Company and the
defendants filed renewed challenges to the petition and moved to dismiss the
action.  On March 13, 2008, the court dismissed the action.  On April 14,
2008, the plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to have their petition reinstated,
which was granted on May 27, 2008. 
On November 23, 2009, defendants moved for summary judgment on all
of plaintiffs  claims.  The court granted
defendants  motion for summary judgment in its entirety and dismissed the
action with prejudice on January 19, 2010.  

City
of Oakland, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   :  On June 29, 2007, the City of Oakland,
California filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California.  In
addition to the claim for violation of the City of Oakland s Transient Tax
Ordinance, the complaint also asserted unfair competition claims under
California Business and Professions Code   17200,  et seq. ,
and claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, punitive damages, a constructive
trust and a declaratory judgment.  On September 18,
2007, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.  On November 6, 2007, the court granted
the defendants  motion and dismissed the City of Oakland s complaint with
prejudice for the City s failure to exhaust its mandatory administrative
procedures for tax collection.  On December 5,
2007, the City of Oakland filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit.  On July 16,
2008, the Company and Lowestfare.com LLC received audit notices from the
City.  On August 4, 2008, the
Company and Lowestfare.com LLC responded and requested a hearing before the
City s Business Tax Board of Review.  On July 17,
2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of
the case for failure to exhaust administrative remedies, but ruled that the
action should have been dismissed without prejudice, rather than with
prejudice.  The case was therefore
remanded.  Plaintiff s time to appeal
dismissal expired on October 14, 2009. 
The City is proceeding with administrative proceedings.  

City
of Baltimore, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   :  On December 10, 2008, the City of
Baltimore, Maryland filed a complaint in the United States District Court for
the District of Maryland.  In addition to
claims for declaratory and injunctive relief with respect to the application of
the City s Hotel Room Tax, the complaint also asserted claims for
conversion, unjust enrichment, assumpsit, constructive trust, and punitive
damages.  On March 16, 2009, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On June 1, 2009, the court denied the motion.  The parties are proceeding with discovery.  

County
Commissioners of Worcester, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   :  On January 6, 2009, the County
Commissioners of Worcester, Maryland filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Maryland. 
In addition to the claim for violation of the County s Hotel Room Tax,
the complaint also asserted claims for conversion, unjust enrichment, and
assumpsit.  On March 16, 2009, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. 
On June 2, 2009, the court denied the motion.  On June 15, 2009, defendants filed a
motion for reconsideration, which was denied on July 21, 2009.  The parties are proceeding with discovery.  

141    

Table of
Contents   

City
of Bowling Green, KY v. Hotels.com LP et al.   :  On March 10, 2009, the City of Bowling
Green filed a complaint in Warren Circuit Court in the Commonwealth of Kentucky
against the Company and other defendants. 
The complaint asserts claims for violation of the Uniform Transient Room Ordinances,
unjust enrichment, money had and received, and conversion, and seeks imposition
of a constructive trust and declaratory judgment.  On May 21, 2009, defendants moved to
dismiss the complaint.  A hearing on the
motion took place on September 9, 2009, and the matter was taken under
submission by the court.  The parties are
awaiting the court s decision on the motion to dismiss.  

St.
Louis County, Missouri v. Prestige Travel, Inc. et al.:     On July 6, 2009, St. Louis County,
Missouri filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County,
Missouri.  The complaint sought
declaratory relief and monetary damages relating to the state and county s
transient guests tax, as well as alleging a claim for conversion.  On September 18, 2009, an amended
complaint was filed adding St. Louis Convention   Visitors Commission
as a plaintiff.  Defendants filed a
motion to dismiss the complaint on November 30, 2009 and the parties are
presently conducting discovery.  

The
Village of Rosemont, Illinois v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   :  On July 23, 2009, the Village of
Rosemont, Illinois filed a complaint in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Illinois. In addition to claims for injunctive relief
and monetary damages with respect to the application of the Village Hotel Tax,
the complaint also asserted claims for unjust enrichment and conversion.  Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on October 9, 2009. 
Plaintiffs opposed defendants  motion to dismiss on November 4,
2009.  Oral argument was heard on the
motion on January 15, 2010.  The
parties are awaiting the court s decision on the motion to dismiss and are
presently conducting discovery.  

Palm
Beach County, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   :  On July 30, 2009, Ann Gannon,
purportedly in her capacity as Palm Beach County Tax Collector and on behalf of
Palm Beach County, Florida, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the 15th
Judicial Circuit in and for Palm Beach County, Florida.  The complaint
seeks declaratory judgment and monetary damages relating to the County s
tourist development taxes.  The County
thereafter filed an amended complaint on December 1, 2009 making the same
substantive claims.  On January 8,
2010, defendants filed an answer to the amended complaint.  

Brevard
County, Florida v. Priceline.com Inc., et al.   :  On October 2, 2009, Brevard County filed
a complaint in the United State District Court for the Middle District of
Florida.  The complaint sought injunctive
relief and monetary damages relating to the County s tourist development taxes,
as well as claims of unjust enrichment and conversion.   Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on December 7, 2009.  On January 4,
2010, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claim for injunctive relief.  The parties are awaiting the court s decision
on the remaining parts of defendants  motion to dismiss.  

Leon
County, et al. v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   :  On November 5, 2009, Leon County,
Florida, five other Florida counties, and certain individual tax collectors for
some of the counties filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the Second
Judicial Circuit, in and for Leon County, Florida.  The complaint seeks injunctive relief and
monetary damages relating to the County s tourist development taxes.  Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
complaint on January 19, 2010.  The
plaintiffs indicated that they intend to amend the complaint by dropping their
claims for monetary damages.  The Court
has not yet scheduled a hearing date on defendants  motion.  

Leon
County v. Expedia, Inc. et al.   :  On December 22, 2009, Leon County filed
a complaint in the Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and for
Leon County, Florida.  It also names the
Florida Department of Revenue as a defendant. 
The complaint seeks declaratory relief and monetary damages relating to
the Florida transient rental tax.  The
defendants  motion to dismiss was filed on February 10, 2010.  

142    

Table of
Contents   

City
of Birmingham, et al. v. Orbitz, Inc., et al.   :  On December 11, 2009, the City of
Birmingham and eight other Alabama cities, and the Birmingham-Jefferson Civic
Center Authority filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Jefferson
County.  The complaint seeks declaratory
judgment regarding defendants  alleged obligation to remit lodging tax to each
named jurisdiction.  Defendants  answer
to the complaint is due on February 19, 2010.  

The
Company has also been informed by counsel to the plaintiffs in certain of the
aforementioned actions that various, undisclosed municipalities or taxing
jurisdictions may file additional cases against it, Lowestfare.com LLC and
Travelweb LLC in the future.  Some
municipalities or taxing jurisdictions have sent the Company and/or its
subsidiaries tax notices or demands, including Brunswick County and Stanly
County, North Carolina; and the City of North Little Rock, Arkansas.  

The
Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the
proceedings described above.  

Judicial Actions Relating to Assessments Issued by Individual Cities
and Counties   

After
administrative remedies have been exhausted, the Company may seek judicial
review of assessments issued by an individual city or county.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
et al. v. Broward County, Florida   :  In May 2008, the Company (including
Travelweb LLC) received assessments from the County.  On June 19, 2008, the Company submitted
formal protests of the assessments and on November 13, 2008, its protests
were denied.  On January 13, 2009,
the Company filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in
and for Leon County, Florida, against the County and the Florida Department of
Revenue challenging the assessments.  The
County and the Department of Revenue answered and filed a counterclaim on February 2,
2009.  In addition to claims for
injunctive relief with respect to the County s tourist development tax, the
counterclaim also asserted claims for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion and
statutory civil theft.  The counterclaim
defendants moved to dismiss the counterclaims and to strike the affirmative
defenses on February 23, 2009, and the Company responded on March 24,
2009.  On March 3, 2009, defendant
Broward County moved to consolidate the action with an action captioned  Orbitz, LLC, Internetwork Publishing Corp., d/b/a Lodging.com v.
Broward County, Florida and Florida Department of Revenue , Case No. 2009
CA 000126.  Although the Company opposed
the motion to consolidate, on May 13, 2009, the case was consolidated with
other cases filed by online travel companies. 
On August 25, 2009, the Company filed its complaint in the CA 000126
action.  On October 30, 2009, the
Company joined in a motion to dismiss counterclaims filed by other defendants;
on November 23, 2009, Broward County filed its response to that motion and
its first amended answer, defenses and counterclaims.  On December 15, 2009, the Company and
other plaintiffs filed a motion to dismiss and motion to strike the County s
first amended answer, defenses, and counterclaim to the Orbitz defendants  August 25,
2009.  The parties are awaiting the
court s decision on the pending motion.  

Priceline.com
Inc. et al. v. City of Anaheim et al.   :  In May 2008,
the Company, Travelweb LLC and Lowestfare.com LLC received assessments
from the City of Anaheim, California.  On
June 2, 2008, the Company submitted formal protests of the assessments.  On February 6, 2009, the City-appointed
hearing officer issued a ruling upholding the determination that the Company
was liable for the Transient Occupancy Tax, but reducing the amounts of the
assessments issued.  On February 11, 2009,
the Company and Travelweb LLC filed suit in Superior Court of the State of
California, County of Orange, against the City and the hearing officer
challenging the assessments and the liability determination.  

On February 18,
2009, the Company and Travelweb LLC joined a motion filed by Expedia, Inc.
seeking a ruling that the plaintiffs do not have to pay the amounts assessed by
the City until resolution of the matter by the courts.  On February 26, 2009, the City moved to
dismiss on the basis that plaintiffs had not paid the assessed amounts prior to
filing the action.  On March 30,
2009, the court ruled that the Company, Expedia, and others did not have to pay
the assessed amount as a precondition to bringing suit  

143    

Table
of Contents   

in the courts.  On March 25, 2009, plaintiffs moved to
consolidate the case with the  City of Los Angeles 
case.  On April 17, 2009, the City
answered the petition and complaint and filed a cross complaint asserting
claims for conversion, and violations of the California Civil Code.  The cross-complaint also sought imposition of
a constructive trust, and seeks injunctive relief based upon alleged violations
of the transient occupancy tax.  On May 4,
2009, the case was consolidated with the  City
of Los Angeles  case.  

On July 15,
2009, the City filed a motion for denial of the Company s petition to overturn
the decision of the tax hearing officer. 
On September 21, 2009, the Company and other online travel
companies filed a motion for judgment granting that relief.  On February 1, 2010, the court granted
the online travel companies  motion for judgment to set aside the hearing
officer s determination and denied the City s competing application to dismiss
the complaint.  The City may file a
notice of appeal of the court s order.  

On September 17,
2009, the City filed a motion for summary adjudication; that briefing
presumably is moot in light of the court s decision described above.  

In
addition, in connection with this proceeding, on May 22, 2009, the City
filed a petition seeking appellate review of the order on the  pay first 
issue; opposition and reply briefs followed.  On June 11, 2009, the
Court of Appeal denied the City s petition.  On June 18, 2009, the
City filed a petition for review with California Supreme Court on the  pay
first  issue; opposition was filed on July 9, 2009.   On November 24,
2009, the Court of Appeal denied the City s petition to overturn the denial of
the City s challenge to the Superior Court action on pay first grounds.  The City filed a petition for review from the
California Supreme Court on December 29, 2009.  The Company and the other parties to the suit
filed an answer to the petition for review on January 19, 2010.  

Also
in connection with this matter, in separate proceedings initiated on September 11,
2008 in the California Superior Court for the County of Orange, the Company,
along with other online travel companies, challenged the City s use of
contingency fee counsel in transient occupancy tax proceedings.  On October 31,
2008, the court denied that petition.  The Company and the other online
travel companies appealed that ruling to the California Court of Appeal, Fourth
Appellate District; the parties  briefing on the appeal was completed on May 12,
2009.  Oral argument was heard on October 19,
2009.  On January 5, 2010, the
appellate court affirmed the lower court s ruling denying the petition.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
v. Indiana Department of State Revenue   :  On May 5, 2008, the Indiana Department
of State Revenue issued a proposed assessment purportedly based on a Gross
Retail Tax and County Innkeeper s Tax, which the Company protested on June 18,
2008.  On November 24, 2008, the
department denied the protest and subsequently, on January 30, 2009,
denied the Company s motion for a rehearing. 
On March 30, 2009, the Company filed a petition in the Indiana Tax
Court appealing the department s final determination.  The parties are presently conducting
discovery.  

Priceline.com, Inc.
et al. v. City of San Francisco, California, et al.   :  On October 31, 2008, the City and County
of San Francisco issued an assessment which the Company appealed through the
administrative process.  On May 15, 2009, the Company was assessed
approximately $3.4 million, which includes interest and penalties, for hotel
occupancy tax from January 1, 2000 to September 30, 2008.  On June 11,
2009, the Company filed a petition to overturn the administrative determination
and a complaint for declaratory relief in San Francisco Superior Court
challenging the assessment.  On July 16,
2009, the Company paid the assessment and charged the amount against its
reserve for hotel occupancy and other taxes.  On August 4, 2009, the
Company filed an administrative refund claim. 
On August 31, 2009, the Company filed an amended petition and an
amended complaint for declaratory judgment. On December 11, 2009, the
Company filed a second amended complaint. 
The City filed a challenge to the second amended complaint on January 19,
2010.  The parties are presently
conducting discovery.  

144    

Table of
Contents   

Priceline.com, Inc. v. Miami-Dade County, Florida, et al.   :  On September 2, 2008, Miami-Dade County
issued an assessment totaling about $506,000, which includes interest and
penalties for tourist and convention development tax from March 20, 2002
through January 2007.  The Company
filed an informal protest on August 11, 2009, which was denied on October 21,
2009.  On December 18, 2009, the
Company filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit,
in and for Leon County, Florida against Miami-Dade County, Florida and the
Florida Department of Revenue seeking to invalidate the assessment.  On January 21, 2010, Miami-Dade County
answered and asserted counterclaims against the Company.  In addition to claims for declaratory and
injunctive relief with respect to the County s tourist development tax and
state s transient sales tax, the counterclaim also asserts claims for breach of
fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment and conversion.  The Company s response date to the
counterclaim is February 26, 2010.  

The
Company intends to prosecute vigorously its claims in these actions.  

Consumer Class Actions   

Two
purported class actions brought by consumers were pending against the Company:  

Marshall, et al. v. priceline.com, Inc.   :  On February 17, 2005, a putative class
action complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware for
New Castle County by Jeanne Marshall and three other individuals on behalf of
themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated consumers
nationwide against the Company.  The
complaint alleged that the Company violated the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act,
Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6,   2511,  et seq. ,
relating to its disclosures and charges to customers to cover taxes under city
hotel occupancy tax ordinances nationwide, and service fees.  The Company moved to dismiss the complaint on
April 21, 2005.  On June 10,
2005, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that asserts claims under the
Delaware Consumer Fraud Act and for breach of contract and the implied duty of
good faith and fair dealing.  On October 31,
2006, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to
dismiss.  The court dismissed all claims
arising under the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act. 
The court also dismissed all claims for breach of contract and the
implied duty of good faith and fair dealing that relate to the Company s
charges for service fees.  The court
denied the Company s motion to dismiss the breach of contract and implied duty
of good faith and fair dealing claims as they relate to the Company s charges
to consumers to cover taxes under city hotel occupancy tax ordinances.  On February 1, 2008, two of the four
plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against the Company.  On February 29, 2008, the remaining
plaintiffs moved for leave to amend their complaint to assert additional claims
for breach of contract and the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing
alleging that the Company included a hidden fee within the room rate
charge.  On August 28, 2008, the
court granted plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend.  The plaintiffs filed their second amended
complaint on September 12, 2008, and the Company answered that complaint
on September 26, 2008.  The parties 
summary judgment motions have been submitted and a hearing was held in January 2009;
the Company is awaiting the court s ruling.  

Chiste, et al. v. priceline.com Inc., et al.   :  On December 11, 2008, a putative class
action was filed by plaintiff Matthew R. Chiste and two other individuals on
behalf of themselves and a putative class of allegedly similarly situated
consumers nationwide against the Company, Lowestfare.com, Inc. and
Travelweb, LLC.  The complaint alleges
the defendants overcharge consumers by collecting Hotel Occupancy and sales
taxes over and above that necessary to pay the actual taxes on the hotel room
reserved by the customer.  The complaint
asserts claims for deceptive business practices, declaratory and injunctive
relief, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of contract.  Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint on March 6,
2009.  Briefing was completed on July 3,
2009.  The parties are awaiting the
court s decision.  

The
Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the
proceedings described above.  

145    

Table of Contents   

Administrative Proceedings and Other Possible Actions   

At
various times the Company has also received inquiries or proposed tax
assessments from municipalities and other taxing jurisdictions relating to the
Company s charges and remittance of amounts to cover state and local hotel occupancy
and other related taxes.  Among others,
the City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the City of Phoenix, Arizona, and state
tax officials from Texas, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania have begun formal or
informal administrative procedures or stated that they may assert claims
against the Company relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel occupancy
or related taxes.  Since late 2008, the
Company has received audit notices from more than forty cities in the state of
California.  The Company is engaged in
audit proceedings in each of those cities. 
The Company has also been contacted for audit by five counties in the
state of Utah and by Osceola County Florida.  

Other Recent Developments   

On
June 29, 2009, the City of New York amended its hotel occupancy tax
ordinance, effective September 1, 2009, purporting to impose obligations
and liability on third party intermediaries, including online travel companies,
for tax on the amounts (including booking and service fees) charged by such
intermediaries relating to a room reservation. 
The hotel occupancy tax rate for New York City in the amended statute is
5.875%.  The Company evaluated the
amended ordinance and has begun to collect and remit tax in accordance
therewith.  Concurrent with its
compliance with the revised ordinance, the Company joined in the lawsuit  Expedia, Inc. et al. v. City of New York Department of Finance, et
al.,  asserting its legal objections to the revised ordinance.  

Litigation
Related to Securities Matters   

On
March 16, March 26, April 27, and June 5, 2001,
respectively, four putative class action complaints were filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York naming priceline.com, Inc.,
Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter  
Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston
Robertson Stephens, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants
(01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576, 01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).  Shives  et
al . v. Bank of America Securities LLC  et al ., 01 Civ. 4956, also names other defendants and states
claims unrelated to the Company.  The
complaints allege, among other things, that the Company and the individual
defendants violated the federal securities laws by issuing and selling
priceline.com common stock in its March 1999 initial public offering
without disclosing to investors that some of the underwriters in the offering,
including the lead underwriters, had allegedly solicited and received excessive
and undisclosed commissions from certain investors.  By Orders of Judge Mukasey and Judge
Scheindlin dated August 8, 2001, these cases were consolidated for
pre-trial purposes with hundreds of other cases, which contain allegations
concerning the allocation of shares in the initial public offerings of
companies other than the Company.  By
Order of Judge Scheindlin dated August 14, 2001, the following cases were
consolidated for all purposes:  01 Civ.
2261; 01 Civ. 2576; and 01 Civ. 3590.  On
April 19, 2002, plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action
Complaint in these cases.  This
Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint makes similar allegations to
those described above but with respect to both the Company s March 1999
initial public offering and its August 1999 second public offering of
common stock.  The named defendants are
priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock, Jay S. Walker, Paul E. Francis,
Nancy B. Peretsman, Timothy G. Brier, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter  
Co., Goldman Sachs   Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  
Smith, Inc., Robertson Stephens, Inc. (as successor-in-interest to
BancBoston), Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. (as successor-in-interest to
Donaldson Lufkin   Jenrette Securities Corp.), Allen   Co., Inc.
and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. 
Priceline.com, Richard Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Nancy
Peretsman, and Timothy Brier, together with other issuer defendants in the
consolidated litigation, filed a joint motion to dismiss on July 15,
2002.  On November 18, 2002, the
cases against the individual defendants were dismissed without prejudice and
without costs.  In addition, counsel for
plaintiffs and the individual defendants executed Reservation of Rights and
Tolling Agreements, which toll the statutes of limitations on plaintiffs 
claims against those individuals.  On  

146    

Table of Contents   

February 19,
2003, Judge Scheindlin issued an Opinion and Order granting in part and denying
in part the issuer s motion.  None of the
claims against the Company was dismissed. 
On June 26, 2003, counsel for the plaintiff class announced that
they and counsel for the issuers had agreed to the form of a Memorandum of
Understanding (the  Memorandum ) to settle claims against the issuers.  The terms of that Memorandum provide that
class members will be guaranteed $1 billion in recoveries by the insurers of
the issuers and that settling issuer-defendants will assign to the class
members certain claims that they may have against the underwriters.  Issuers also agree to limit their abilities
to bring certain claims against the underwriters.  If recoveries in excess of $1 billion are
obtained by the class from any non-settling defendants, the settling
defendants  monetary obligations to the class plaintiffs will be satisfied; any
amount recovered from the underwriters that is less than $1 billion will be
paid by the insurers on behalf of the issuers. 
The Memorandum, which is subject to the approval of each issuer, was
approved by a special committee of the Company s Board of Directors on
Thursday, July 3, 2003.  Thereafter,
counsel for the plaintiff class and counsel for the issuers agreed to the form
of a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement with Defendant Issuers and
Individuals ( Settlement Agreement ). 
The Settlement Agreement implements the Memorandum and contains the same
material provisions.  On June 11,
2004, a special committee of the priceline.com Board of Directors authorized
its counsel to execute the Settlement Agreement on behalf of the Company.  The Settlement Agreement was submitted to the
Court for approval.  Subsequently, the
Second Circuit reversed the District Court s granting of class certification in
certain of the related class actions.  As
a result, the parties entered into a stipulation and order dated June 25,
2007 which terminated the Settlement Agreement. 
After extensive negotiations, the parties reached a comprehensive
settlement on or about March 30, 2009. 
On April 2, 2009, plaintiffs filed a Notice of Motion for
Preliminary Approval of Settlement.  On June 9,
2009, the court granted the motion and scheduled the hearing for final approval
for September 10, 2009.  The
settlement, previously approved by a special committee of the Company s Board
of Directors, compromised the claims against the Company for approximately $0.3
million. The court issued an order granting final approval of the settlement on
October 5, 2009.  Notices of appeal
of the Court s order have been filed with the Second Circuit.  These appeals are still pending.  

The
Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the
proceedings described in this Note 17. 
The Company has accrued for certain legal contingencies where it is
probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
estimated.  Except as disclosed, such
amounts accrued are not material to the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets
and provisions recorded have not been material to the Company s consolidated
results of operations.  The Company is
unable to estimate the potential maximum range of loss.  

From time to time, the Company has been, and expects to continue to be,
subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business,
including claims of alleged infringement of third party intellectual property
rights.  Such claims, even if not
meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, divert management s attention from the Company s business
objectives and could adversely affect its business, results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows.  

Employment Contracts   

The
Company has employment agreements with certain members of senior management
that provide for cash severance payments of up to approximately $18 million,
accelerated vesting of equity instruments, including without limitation,
restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units upon,
among other things, death or a termination without  cause  or  good reason , as
those terms are defined in the agreements, and a gross-up for the payment of
 golden parachute  excise taxes.  In
addition, certain of the agreements provide for the extension of health and
insurance benefits after termination for periods of up to three years.  

147    

Table
of Contents   

Operating Leases   

The
Company leases certain facilities and equipment through operating leases.  Rental expense for operating leases was
approximately $7.8 million, $6.4 million and $4.4 million for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The
Company s executive, administrative, operating offices and network operations
center are located in approximately 92,000 square feet of leased office space
located in Norwalk, Connecticut.    The Company also
leases approximately 46,000   square feet   of office space in Grand
Rapids, Michigan.    Booking.com
Limited leases approximately 10,000 square feet of office space, primarily in
Cambridge, England.  Booking.com B.V.
leases approximately 148,000 square feet of office space, most significantly in
Amsterdam, Netherlands, and in 20 other countries in support of its
international operations.  Agoda leases
approximately 22,000 square feet of office space in Bangkok, Thailand and in 9
other countries in support of its international operations.  Minimum payments for operating leases having
initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year have been
translated into U.S. Dollars at the December 31, 2009 spot exchange rates,
as applicable, and are as follows (in thousands):  

Airline Excise Tax Refund   

The
online travel industry received guidance in the fourth quarter of 2006 in the
form of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the fee earned by
online intermediaries in connection with the facilitation of the purchase of
airline tickets is not subject to Federal Excise Tax.  Due to the prior
lack of clear guidance related to the application of federal excise taxes to
amounts earned by online travel intermediaries, the Company historically
remitted such taxes on the amounts it earned for facilitating the purchase of
airline tickets.  The tax at issue was on the amounts earned by the
Company and was not added to the ticket price paid by its customers. 
Accordingly, the Company sought refunds of the taxes it paid while the on-line
travel industry pursued clarification on the issue.  The Company recorded refunds received in the
amount of $18.6 million in revenue, plus $3.3 million of interest income during
the year ended December 31, 2007.  

Contingent Purchase Price   

On
November 6, 2007, the Company and a newly-formed, indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% of the total share capital of   priceline.com
Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the   Agoda
Company, Ltd.)   ( Agoda ) and AGIP LLC.  The purchase price for the acquisition, including
acquisition costs, consists of an initial purchase price payable by the Company
in cash of approximately $16 million and up to an additional $141.6 million in
cash, which is payable by the Company if Agoda achieves specified  gross
bookings  and earnings targets from January 1, 2008 through December 31,
2010.  The contingent consideration, if
any, related to this acquisition will be recorded to goodwill as an additional
purchase price adjustment when the contingency is resolved.  

On
December 21, 2007, the Company acquired 100% of the total issued share
capital of an online advertising company for approximately $4.1 million in
cash, including acquisition costs.  The
Company could be required to pay an additional amount of up to $3.8 million in
cash each year from 2008 through 2010, if the acquired company achieves certain
performance targets.  Based upon 2009 and
2008 results, the Company recorded a liability and increased goodwill by $2.5
million and $1.5 million in December 2009 and December 2008, respectively,
to reflect this purchase price adjustment.  

148    

Table
of Contents   

18.                                     BENEFIT PLAN  

Priceline.com
has a defined contribution 401(k) savings plan (the  Plan ) covering certain
U.S. employees who are at least 21 years old. The Plan allows eligible
employees to contribute up to 75% of their eligible earnings, subject to a
statutorily prescribed annual limit.  All
participants are fully vested in their contributions and investment earnings.
As of January 1, 2007, the Company instituted a 50% match of employee
contributions up to 6% of qualified compensation.   The Company also maintains
certain other defined contribution plans outside of the United States for which
it provides 50% of the contributions for participating employees.   The   Company s matching
contributions during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007   were
approximately $1.5 million, $1.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively.  

19.                                     GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION  

The
geographic information is based upon the location of Company s subsidiaries (in
thousands).  

149    

Table
of Contents   

20.                                     SELECTED
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  

(1)              The Company
recorded non-cash tax benefits in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 of
$181.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively. 
See Note 16 for further details.  

(2)              See Note 2 for further
details.  

150    

Table
of Contents   

INDEX TO
EXHIBITS   

In reviewing the
agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please
remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their
terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure
information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements.  The agreements contain representations and
warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.  These representations and warranties have
been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable
agreement and:  

should not in all instances be treated as
categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to
one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate;  

have been qualified by disclosures that
were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the
applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the
agreement;  

may apply standards of materiality in a way
that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other
investors; and  

were made only as of the date of the
applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the
agreement and are subject to more recent developments.  

Accordingly, these representations and warranties
may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or
at any other time. Additional information about the Company may be found elsewhere
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company s other public filings,
which are available without charge through the SEC s website at
http://www.sec.gov.  

Exhibit   

Number   

Description   

2.1(m)  

Share
  Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated July 14, 2005 by and between the
  Registrant, ACME Limited and Blue Sky Investments B.V.  

2.2(o)  

Articles
  of Association of priceline.com International Limited, as amended.  

3.1(a)  

Amended
  and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant.  

3.2(b)  

Certificate
  of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated
  June 13, 2003.  

3.3(jj)  

Certificate
  of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated
  June 3, 2009.  

3.4(kk)  

Amended
  and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant.  

4.1  

Reference
  is hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.  

4.2(a)  

Specimen
  Certificate for Registrant s Common Stock.  

4.3(a)  

Amended
  and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 8,
  1998, among the Registrant and certain stockholders of the Registrant.  

4.4(b)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2003, among the Registrant and
  the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.5(b)  

Indenture,
  dated as of August 1, 2003, between the Registrant and American Stock Transfer  
  Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note contained therein).  

4.6(b)  

Supplemental
  Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2003, between the Registrant and
  American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.7(d)  

Second
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.8(c)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004, among priceline.com
  Incorporated and the initial purchasers named therein.  

4.9(c)  

Indenture,
  dated as of June 28, 2004, between the Registrant and American Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee (including the form of note
  contained therein).  

4.10(d)  

First
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2004, between the
  Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.11(b)  

Certificate
  of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Convertible
  Redeemable PIK Preferred Stock of the Registrant.  

4.12(b)  

Certificate
  of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series B Redeemable Preferred
  Stock of the Registrant.  

151    

Table of Contents   

4.13(u)  

Indenture,
  dated as of September 27, 2006, between priceline.com Incorporated and
  American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Trustee.  

4.14(u)  

Registration
  Rights Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as representative of the
  Initial Purchasers.  

4.15(w)  

Indenture
  relating to New 1.00% Notes, dated as of November 6, 2006, between
  priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as
  Trustee.  

4.16(w)  

Indenture
  relating to New 2.25% Notes, dated as of November 6, 2006, between
  priceline.com Incorporated and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as
  Trustee.  

10.1(a)+  

1997
  Omnibus Plan of the Registrant.  

10.2(e)+  

1999
  Omnibus Plan of the Registrant, as amended.  

10.3(f)+  

Priceline.com
  2000 Employee Stock Option Plan.  

10.4(e)+  

Form of
  Stock Option Grant Agreement.  

10.5(e)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants to Board of Directors.  

10.6(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.).  

10.7(g)+  

Form of
  Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.).  

10.8(g)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Agreement with covenants (U.S.).  

10.9(g)+  

Restricted
  Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the
  Registrant.  

10.10(h)+  

Stock
  Option and Restricted Stock Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, by and
  between the Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr.  

10.11(g)+  

Restricted
  Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and
  the Registrant.  

10.12(i)+  

Employment
  Agreement, dated February 8, 2006, by and between the Registrant and
  Peter J. Millones.  

10.13(i)+  

Form of
  priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for
  Non-Employee Directors.  

10.14(j)*  

Formation
  and Funding Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2000, by and between the
  Registrant and Alliance Partners, L.P.  

10.15(k)  

Restructuring
  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003, between Hutchison-Priceline
  Limited, Trio Happiness Limited and PCLN Asia, Inc.  

10.16(k)  

Amended
  and Restated Securityholders  Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2003,
  among Hutchison-Priceline Limited, PCLN Asia, Inc. and Trio Happiness
  Limited.  

10.17(k)  

Master
  Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003, between Credit Suisse First
  Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.18(k)  

Schedule
  to the Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003 between Credit
  Suisse First Boston International and the Registrant.  

10.19(k)  

Letter
  Agreement, dated November 26, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston
  International and priceline.com Incorporated.  

10.20(k)  

Securities
  Purchase Agreement dated as of May 3, 2004, between Lowestfare.com
  Incorporated, Hilton Electronic Distribution Systems, LLC, HT-HDS, Inc.,
  MI Distribution, LLC, Starwood Resventure LLC, Pegasus Business Intelligence,
  LP and Travelweb LLC.  

10.21(l)  

Sale
  and Purchase Agreement dated September 21, 2004 by and among
  Priceline.com Holdco U.K. Limited and the security holders of Active Hotels
  Limited listed therein.  

10.22(n)+  

Stock
  Option Grant Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna.  

10.23(n)+  

Indemnification
  Agreement, dated June 2, 2005, by and between the Registrant and
  Marshall Loeb.  

10.24(p)+  

Letter
  agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between the Registrant and
  Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.25(p)+  

Restricted
  Stock Grant Agreement, dated October 19, 2005, reflecting grant of
  restricted stock to Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.26(q)+  

Form of
  Registrant s 1999 Omnibus Plan Award Agreement   Restricted Stock Units for
  Employees in the Netherlands.  

10.27(r)+  

Form of
  Performance Share Agreement under the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus
  Plan.  

10.28(s)  

Underwriting
  Agreement, dated September 5, 2006, among priceline.com Incorporated,
  the selling stockholders listed on Schedule II thereto and Goldman,
  Sachs   Co.  

10.29(t)  

Purchase
  Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2006, between priceline.com
  Incorporated and Goldman Sachs   Co., as representative of the
  Initial Purchasers.  

10.30(t)  

Confirmation
  of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman,
  Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.31(t)  

Confirmation
  of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman,
  Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.32(t)  

Confirmation
  of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch,
  Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated,
  dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.33(t)  

Confirmation
  of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch,
  Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated,
  dated as of September 21, 2006.  

10.34(v)  

Amendment
  dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share
  Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and
  priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and
  Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between
  Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  September 21, 2006.  

10.35(v)  

Amendment
  dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share
  Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  
  Smith Incorporated and priceline.com  

152    

Table of Contents   

Incorporated,
  dated as of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped
  Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
  Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as
  of September 21, 2006.  

10.36(x)  

Underwriting
  Agreement, dated December 4, 2006, among priceline.com Incorporated, the
  selling stockholders listed on Schedule II thereto and Goldman,
  Sachs   Co.  

10.37(y)+  

Priceline.com
  Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated as of February 20, 2007.  

10.38(z)  

Stipulation
  and Agreement of Settlement between P. Warren Ross, Thomas Linton, and John
  Anderson and the class and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of
  May 3, 2007.  

10.39(aa)  

Credit
  Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 among priceline.com
  Incorporated, RBC citizens, National Association, and Bank of Scotland plc as
  co-documentation Agents, bank of America, N.A. as syndication Agent and
  JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as Administrative Agent.  

10.40(aa)  

Pledge
  and Security Agreement dated as of September 26, 2007 by and among
  priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association.  

10.41(aa)  

Guaranty
  dated as of September 26, 2007 by each of the subsidiaries of
  priceline.com Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association.  

10.42(bb)*  

Equity
  Purchase Agreement by and among priceline.com Mauritius Co. Ltd,
  priceline.com Incorporated and the shareholders of Agoda Company Ltd. and
  members of AGIP LLC dated November 6, 2007.  

10.43(cc)+  

Performance
  share unit agreement dated December 1, 2007.  

10.44(  dd)*+  

Form of
  2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan,
  as amended, based on the performance of the Company s consolidated
  operations.  

10.45(  dd)*+  

Form of
  2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan,
  as amended, based on the performance of the Company s domestic operations on
  an unconsolidated basis.  

10.46(  dd)*+  

Form of
  2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan,
  as amended, based on the performance of Agoda Company Ltd., Agoda Company
  Pte. Ltd. and Agoda Services Co. Ltd.  

10.47(  ee)+  

priceline.com
  Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective
  June 4, 2008).  

10.48(  ff)+  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to non-U.S. participants under the
  1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended.  

10.49(  gg)+  

Separation
  Agreement, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Stef Norden.  

10.50(  gg)+  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated August 22, 2008, by and between
  priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd.  

10.51(  gg)+  

Performance
  share unit agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery
  H. Boyd.  

10.52(hh)  +  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 18, 2008, to   Amended and Restated
  Employment Agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery
  H. Boyd.  

10.53(hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Robert J. Mylod.  

10.54(hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Peter J. Millones.  

10.55(hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and
  between priceline.com Incorporated and Chris Soder.  

10.56  (hh)  +  

Letter
  amendment, dated December 16, 2008, to   Letter agreement, dated
  October 19, 2005 by and between priceline.com and Daniel J. Finnegan.  

10.57  (hh)  +  

Amended
  and Restated Employment Contract, by and between Booking.com B.V. and
  Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen.  

10.58(ii)+  

Form of
  2009 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to Messrs. Boyd and
  Mylod under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended.  

10.59+  

Indemnification
  Agreement, dated November 10, 2009, between priceline.com Incorporated
  and Kees Koolen.  

12.1  

Ratio
  of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

14(k)  

Priceline.com
  Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  

21  

List
  of Subsidiaries.  

23.1  

Consent
  of Deloitte   Touche LLP.  

24.1  

Power
  of Attorney (included in the Signature Page).  

31.1  

Certificate
  of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
  2002.  

31.2  

Certificate
  of   Daniel J. Finnegan  , pursuant to Section 302 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1(ll)  

Certification
  of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
  2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of
  Title 18, United States Code).  

32.2(ll)  

Certification of   Daniel J. Finnegan  , pursuant to
  Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and
  (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code).  

(a)                           Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-1
(Registration No. 333-69657) filed in connection with priceline.com s
initial public offering.  

  (b)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-3
(Registration Statement No. 333-190029) filed in connection with
priceline.com s registration of 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2010 and
Shares of Common Stock Issuable Upon Conversion of the Notes.  

  (c)                           Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003.  

  (d)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on December 13, 2004.  

153    

Table of Contents   

(e)                           Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-8
(Registration No. 333-122414) filed on January 31, 2005.  

  (f)                             Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-8
(Registration No. 333-55578) filed on February 14, 2001.  

  (g)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on February 7, 2005.  

  (h)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2000.  

  (i)                              Previously filed
as an exhibit to the Form 8-K filed on February 8, 2006.  

  (j)                              Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2000.  

  (k)                           Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003.  

  (l)                              Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on September 23, 2004.  

  (m)                        Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on July 20, 2005.  

  (n)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on June 3, 2005.  

  (o)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on September 29, 2005.  

  (p)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on October 21, 2005.  

  (q)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on November 8, 2005.  

  (r)                             Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2006.  

  (s)                           Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on September 7, 2006.  

  (t)                             Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on September 27, 2006.  

  (u)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on September 28, 2006.  

  (v)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on October 16, 2006.  

  (w)                        Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on November 9, 2006.  

  (x)                            Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on December 8, 2006.  

  (y)                          Previously filed as an exhibit to the
form 8-K filed on February 23, 2007.  

  (z)                            Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on May 4, 2007.  

  (aa)                     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007.  

  (bb)                   Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2007  

  (cc)                     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on December 5, 2007.  

  (dd)                   Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on March 11, 2008.  

  (ee)                     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on June 6, 2008.  

  (ff)                         Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007.  

  (gg)                   Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on August 6, 2008.  

  (hh)                   Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

  (ii)                           Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on March 4, 2009.  

  (jj)                           Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K
filed on June 5, 2009.  

  (kk)                     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009.  

(ll)                           This document is being furnished in
accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8212 and 34-47551.  

*                                  Certain portions of this document have
been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request filed with the
Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2. The omitted confidential material has
been filed separately with the Commission.  

  +                                  Indicates a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement.  

154    

<EX-10.59>
 2
 a09-35847_2ex10d59.htm
 EX-10.59

Exhibit
10.59   

INDEMNIFICATION
AGREEMENT   

This Indemnification Agreement (  Agreement  ) is made as of November 10,
2009 by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a company, incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware (the   Company  ), and Kees Koolen (  Indemnitee  ).  

RECITALS  

WHEREAS, Indemnitee has been asked and has agreed to and may be asked
in the future to act (if applicable) as incorporator, (managing) director,
officer, supervisory director, secretary, (general) proxy-holder,
administrator, liquidator, attorney, manager, employee, agent or in any other
capacity whatsoever of the Company or any of its (to be incorporated)
affiliated or group companies, including but not limited to Booking.com B.V.,
Booking.com Limited and their affiliated companies (collectively with the
Company, the   Group Companies    

WHEREAS, the Company has agreed to indemnify Indemnitee in any of the
aforementioned capacities to the extent contemplated by this Agreement;  

WHEREAS, the Company and Indemnitee wish to enter into this Agreement
to clearly delineate the aforementioned indemnification;  

WHEREAS, the Board of the Company has approved the entering of this
Agreement on October 14, 2009.  

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants
contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as
follows:  

Section 1.   Services .  This Agreement shall not be deemed an
employment contract between the Company and Indemnitee.  

Section 2.                Indemnification .
 The Company shall indemnify and hold Indemnitee
harmless in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2 if Indemnitee
is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any
Proceeding.  Pursuant to this Section 2,
Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all damages, losses, penalties,
monetary sanctions, costs, expenses (including reasonable fees, costs and
expenses of attorneys, accountants, tax specialists and other advisors and
court costs) (  Expenses  ), judgments, fines and amounts paid in
settlement actually and reasonably incurred, suffered or paid by Indemnitee or
on   his   behalf in
connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein or
settlement whether by any of the Group Companies (or any (ultimate) shareholder
or group company of the Group Companies) or a third party (collectively: a   Claim  ),
if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner   he   reasonably believed to be in or not
opposed to the best interests of the relevant Group Companies on which behalf
he acted.  For purposes of this Agreement,
the term   Proceeding   shall include any threatened, pending or completed
action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism,
investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened
or completed proceeding, whether of a civil, criminal, administrative or
investigative nature, in   

which Indemnitee
was, is or will be involved as a party or otherwise by reason of the fact that
Indemnitee is or was a director (managing or supervisory), officer, manager,
agent, employee, secretary, (general) proxy-holder, administrator, liquidator
or attorney of the Group Companies, in each case whether or not serving in such
capacity at the time any liability or expense is incurred for which
indemnification can be provided under this Agreement;  provided ,  however ,
that the term  Proceeding  shall not include any action, suit or arbitration
initiated by Indemnitee to enforce Indemnitee s rights under this Agreement.  

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that
Indemnitee is by reason of   his   service to, within or for the benefit of the Group
Companies, a witness in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party,   he   shall be indemnified against all Expenses
actually and reasonably incurred by   him   or on   his   behalf in connection therewith.  

The indemnification obligation of the Company will apply irrespectively
of whether the Indemnitee is still employed by, involved in or renders his
service (in whatever capacity) to the relevant Group Companies at the moment the
Claim is made, or whether the Claim dates from a date before or after the
signing of this Agreement, as well as irrespectively of whether the third party
is residing or seated in the Netherlands or abroad and irrespectively of
whether the Claim will be executed before a Dutch or foreign judge, or whether
the payments are due on account of a settlement (provided that such settlement
must be approved in advance by the Company, which approval will not be
unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). 
The right to indemnification as provided for in this Agreement shall
inure to the benefit of Indemnitee s heirs, executors and personal and legal
representatives.  

Section 3.                Exclusions;
Limitations .  Notwithstanding any
provision in this Agreement to the contrary, and unless a court of competent
jurisdiction determines that indemnification should be provided in a final
non-appealable judgment, the Company shall not be obligated under this
Agreement to make any indemnity:  

(a)           for which payment
has actually been made to or on behalf of Indemnitee under any insurance policy
or other indemnity provision, except with respect to any excess beyond the
amount paid under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision (for which
excess the Company shall be and remain liable);  

(b)           for claims initiated
or brought by Indemnitee against the Company or any Group Company, except (i) with
respect to Proceedings brought by Indemnitee to enforce a right to
indemnification under this Agreement or (ii) if the Board of Directors of
the Company has approved the initiation or bringing of such claim;  

(c)           for any settlement
of any Proceeding by Indemnitee effected without the Company s written consent,
which consent will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed;  

(d)           (i) for any
breach of Indemnitee s duty of loyalty (as defined by Dutch law) to the
relevant Group Companies, (ii) for acts or omissions by Indemnitee not in
good faith   

or which involve
willful or intentional misconduct, gross negligence or a knowing and willful violation
of law on the part of Indemnitee, (iii) for unlawful payment of a dividend
or distribution or unlawful stock or equity purchase or redemption by any Group
Company, or (iv) for any transaction from which Indemnitee derived an
improper and actual personal benefit; or  

(e)           for which payment is
prohibited by applicable law,  

The Company s obligation to indemnify Expenses hereunder to Indemnitee
who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer,
employee or agent of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust,
employee benefit plan or other enterprise shall be reduced by any amount
Indemnitee has actually received as indemnification from such other
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other
enterprise.  

Section 4.               Procedure
for Notification and Defense of Claim .  

(a)           To
obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall first submit to
the Company a written request therefor specifying in reasonable detail the claims
or circumstances under which Indemnittee believes he is entitled to
indemnification hereunder.  

(b)           The Company will be
entitled to participate in the Proceeding at its own expense.  

Section 5.                Duration
of Agreement; Binding Effect .  This
Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the later of: (a) the
expiry of the relevant applicable statue of limitations of any Claim, or (b) the
final termination of any Proceeding, including any appeal, then pending in
respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification hereunder.
This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns
and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and   his   heirs, executors and administrators.  

Section 6.                Repayment .  If and to the extent that it is established
by a competent court that one of the exceptions set forth in Clause 3 applies,
then all amounts paid by the relevant Companies pursuant to this Agreement in
relation to the events in question shall be deemed advance payments and
Indemnitee shall be required to repay such amounts to the relevant Companies,
unless otherwise provided for in the decision of the competent court or agreed
upon by parties to this Agreement.  

Section 7.                Advance
Payment; D O Insurance .  The
right to indemnification conferred by this Agreement shall include the right to
be paid by the Company the reasonable expenses incurred in defending or
otherwise participating in any proceeding in advance of its final
disposition.  The Company shall cover
Indemnitee under directors  and officers  liability insurance both during and,
while potential liability exists, after the employment, which insurance shall
cover all Group Companies.  

Section 8.                Severability .  If any provision or provisions of this
Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason
whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions of this Agreement (including without limitation,   

each portion of
any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or
unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and shall
remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law; (b) such
provision or provisions shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform
to applicable law and to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties
hereto; and (c) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this
Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of
this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be
construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested thereby.  

Section 9.                Entire
Agreement .  This Agreement
constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the
subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings,
oral, written and implied, between the parties hereto with respect to the
subject matter hereof.  

Section 10.              Notice
by Indemnitee .  Each party agrees
promptly to notify the other parties in writing upon being served with any
summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other
document relating to any Proceeding, claim or matter which may be subject to
indemnification hereunder.  

Section 11.              Notices .  All notices, requests, demands and other
communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to
have been duly given if (a) delivered by hand and receipted for by the
party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, (b) mailed
by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day
after the date on which it is so mailed, (c) mailed by reputable overnight
courier and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other
communication shall have been directed or (d) sent by facsimile
transmission, with receipt of oral confirmation that such transmission has been
received:  

(a)           If to Indemnitee, at
such address as Indemnitee shall provide to the Company.  

(b)           If to the Company to:  

priceline.com Incorporated  

  800 Connecticut Avenue  

  Norwalk, Connecticut 06854  

  Attention:  General Counsel  

or to any other
address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company.  

Section 12.  No Termination . The parties hereby waive their
rights, if any, in whole or in part, to annul, terminate, rescind, dissolve or
cancel this Agreement, including on the basis of Sections 6:265 or 6:228 of the
Dutch Civil Code, or make any request thereto.  

Section 13.              Applicable
Law and Consent to Jurisdiction .  This
Agreement and the legal relations among the parties shall be governed by, and
construed and enforced in accordance   

with, the laws of
the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws rules.  The Company and Indemnitee hereby irrevocably
and unconditionally (i) agree that any action or proceeding arising out of
or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in the Delaware
Court of Chancery (the   Delaware Court  ), and not in any other state or
federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other
country, (ii) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware
Court for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection
with this Agreement, (iii) appoint, to the extent such party is not
otherwise subject to service of process in the State of Delaware, The Corporation
Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware as its agent in the State of Delaware as
such party s agent for acceptance of legal process in connection with any such
action or proceeding against such party with the same legal force and validity
as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware, (iv) waive
any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in the
Delaware Court, and (v) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any
claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been
brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be signed
as of the day and year first above written.  

priceline.com
  Incorporated  

By:  

/s/ Jeffery H.
  Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery H. Boyd  

Title:  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

Indemnitee  

By:  

/s/ Kees Koolen  

Name: Kees
  Koolen  

</EX-10.59>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 a09-35847_2ex12d1.htm
 EX-12.1

Exhibit 12.1   

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges     As adjusted (See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)  

(in thousands)  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21>
 4
 a09-35847_2ex21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES   

   AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2009*   

Name   

Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation   

Percent 
  Ownership   

1.  

Priceline.com
  Europe Holdco, Inc.  

Delaware  

100  

%  

2.  

Priceline.com
  Holdco U.K. Limited  

United Kingdom  

100  

%  

3.  

priceline.com
  International Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

100  

%  

4.  

Booking.com
  Limited  

United Kingdom  

100  

%  

5.  

priceline.com
  Bookings Acquisition Company Limited  

United Kingdom  

100  

%  

6.  

Booking.com
  B.V.  

The Netherlands  

100  

%  

7.  

Lowestfare.com
  LLC  

Delaware  

100  

%  

8.  

Travelweb
  LLC  

Delaware  

100  

%  

9.  

Priceline.com
  Agoda Holdco, LLC   

Delaware  

100  

%  

10.  

priceline.com
  Mauritius Company Limited   

Mauritius  

100  

%  

*                     Subsidiaries which, when considered in
the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant
subsidiary as of December 31, 2009, have been excluded.  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a09-35847_2ex23d1.htm
 EX-23.1

Exhibit 23.1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements
Nos. 333-151413, 333-122414, 333-65034, 333-55578, 333-83233 on Form S-8
and Nos. 333-119274, 333-115128, 333-139590 and 333-139109 on Form S-3 of
our reports dated February 19, 2010, relating to the consolidated
financial statements of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an
explanatory paragraph relating to the Company s retrospective adoption of a new
accounting standard related to the (1) accounting for convertible debt
that may be settled in cash and (2) presentation and disclosure requirements
for noncontrolling interests) and the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

February 19, 2010  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a09-35847_2ex31d1.htm
 EX-31.1

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATIONS   

I, Jeffery H. Boyd, certify that:   

1.                                          I
have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated
(the  Registrant ) for the year ended December 31, 2009; 

2.                                          Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the Registrant and
we have: 

a.                  designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b.                 designed such internal control over
financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting
to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c.                  evaluated the effectiveness of the
Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d.                 disclosed in this report any change in
the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a.                  all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b.                 any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Dated:
  February 19, 2010  

/s/
  Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery
  H. Boyd  

Title:  

President  
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a09-35847_2ex31d2.htm
 EX-31.2

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATIONS   

I, Daniel J. Finnegan., certify that:   

1.                                          I
have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated
(the  Registrant ) for the year ended December 31, 2009; 

2.                                          Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we
have: 

a.                  designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b.                 designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c.                  evaluated the effectiveness of the
Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d.                 disclosed in this report any change in
the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5.                                          The
Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a.                  all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b.                 any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated:
  February 19, 2010  

/s/
  Daniel J. Finnegan  

Name:  

Daniel
  J. Finnegan  

Title:  

Chief
  Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a09-35847_2ex32d1.htm
 EX-32.1

Exhibit 32.1   

Certification   

   Pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

   (Subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code)   

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 
 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements
of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

Dated:
  February 19, 2010  

/s/
  Jeffery H. Boyd  

Name:  

Jeffery
  H. Boyd  

Title:  

President  
  Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a
separate disclosure document.  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 a09-35847_2ex32d2.htm
 EX-32.2

Exhibit 32.2   

Certification   

   Pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

   (Subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code)   

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his
knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 
 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements
of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

Dated:
  February 19, 2010  

/s/
  Daniel J. Finnegan  

Name:  

Daniel
  J. Finnegan  

Title:  

Chief
  Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer  

The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title
18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a
separate disclosure document.  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

