<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130225_10-K_edgar_data_63908_0000063908-13-000010_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>22271584</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>226390</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9582420</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5078709</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5131550</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1956948</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>81</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000063908-13-000010.hdr.sgml : 20130225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130225111942
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000063908-13-000010
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MCDONALDS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000063908
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING PLACES [5812]
		IRS NUMBER:				362361282
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05231
		FILM NUMBER:		13637545

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MCDONALD'S PLAZA
		CITY:			OAK BROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60523
		BUSINESS PHONE:		630 623 3000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MCDONALD'S PLAZA
		CITY:			OAK BROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60523

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000063908-13-000010.txt : 20130225

10-K
 1
 mcd-12312012x10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

MCD-12.31.2012-10K 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, DC 20549 

T     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2012    
  or 
        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the transition period from                     to                       
                   Commission File Number 1-5231 

McDONALD S CORPORATION 
      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 
  (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 
      
    36-2361282 
  (I.R.S. Employer 
  Identification No.) 

One McDonald s Plaza 
  Oak Brook, Illinois 
  (Address of principal executive offices) 
      
    60523 
  (Zip code) 

Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange 
  on which registered 
      Common stock, $.01 par value 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
        
    None 

(Title of class) 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes   T    No     
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes        No   T 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   T    No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes   T    No     
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
  (Check one): 
  Large accelerated filer    T           Accelerated filer      
  Non-accelerated filer         (do not check if a smaller reporting company)        Smaller reporting company      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes        No   T 
  The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of   June 30, 2012   was   $89,222,241,655  . 
  The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock as of   January 31, 2013   was   1,002,791,769  . 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates information by reference from the registrant s 2013 definitive proxy statement which will be filed no later than 120 days after   December 31, 2012                 

McDONALD S CORPORATION 
               INDEX 

Page reference 

Part I. 

Item 1 
     Business     
    1 
        
    Item 1A 
     Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  
    3 
        
    Item 1B 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    5 
        
    Item 2 
     Properties  
    5 
        
    Item 3 
     Legal Proceedings  
    6 
        
    Item 4 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    6 

Part II. 

Item 5 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    8 
        
    Item 6 
     Selected Financial Data  
    9 
        
    Item 7 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    10 
        
    Item 7A 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    26 
        
    Item 8 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    26 
        
    Item 9 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    47 
        
    Item 9A 
     Controls and Procedures  
    47 
        
    Item 9B 
     Other Information  
    47 

Part III. 

Item 10 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    47 
        
    Item 11 
     Executive Compensation  
    47 
        
    Item 12 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  
    47 
        
    Item 13 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    48 
        
    Item 14 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    48 

Part IV. 

Item 15 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    48 

Signatures  
    51 

Exhibits 

All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners. 

PART I 

ITEM 1. Business 

McDonald s Corporation, the registrant, together with its sub-sidiaries, is referred to herein as the  Company.  
  a. General development of business 
  During   2012  , there have been no material changes to the Company s corporate structure or in its method of conducting business. In   2012  , the Company has continued the process it began in 2005 to realign certain subsidiaries to develop a corporate structure within its geographic segments that better reflects the operation of the McDonald s worldwide business. 
  b. Financial information about segments 
  Segment data for the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011  , and   2010   are included in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. 
  c. Narrative description of business 
             
    General 
     The Company franchises and operates McDonald s restaurants in the global restaurant industry. These restaurants serve a broad menu (see Products) at various price points providing value in   119   countries around the world. 
  All restaurants are operated either by the Company or by franchisees, including conventional franchisees under franchise arrangements, and developmental licensees and foreign affiliated markets under license agreements. 
  The Company s operations are designed to assure consistency and high quality at every restaurant. When granting franchises or licenses, the Company is selective and generally is not in the practice of franchising to passive investors. 
  Under the conventional franchise arrangement, franchisees provide a portion of the capital required by initially investing in the equipment, signs, seating and d cor of their restaurant businesses, and by reinvesting in the business over time. The Company owns the land and building or secures long-term leases for both Company-operated and conventional franchised restaurant sites. In certain circumstances, the Company participates in reinvestment for conventional franchised restaurants. A discussion regarding site selection is included in Part I, Item 2, page 5 of this Form 10-K. 
  Conventional franchisees contribute to the Company s revenue stream through the payment of rent and royalties based upon a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments, along with initial fees received upon the opening of a new restaurant or the granting of a new franchise term. The conventional franchise arrangement typically lasts 20 years, and franchising practices are generally consistent throughout the world. Over   70%   of franchised restaurants operate under conventional franchise arrangements. 
  Under a developmental license arrangement, licensees provide capital for the entire business, including the real estate interest. While the Company has no capital invested, it receives a royalty based on a percent of sales, as well as initial fees. The largest of these developmental license arrangements operates over   1,900   restaurants across   19   countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
  The Company has an equity investment in a limited number of foreign affiliated markets, referred to as "affiliates." The largest of these affiliates is Japan, where there are nearly   3,300   restaurants. The Company receives a royalty based on a percent of sales in these markets and records its share of net results in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. 

The Company and its franchisees purchase food, packaging, equipment and other goods from numerous independent suppliers. The Company has established and strictly enforces high quality standards and product specifications. The Company has quality centers around the world to ensure that its high standards are consistently met. The quality assurance process not only involves ongoing product reviews, but also on-site supplier visits. A quality leadership board, composed of the Company s technical, safety and supply chain specialists, provides strategic global leadership for all aspects of food quality and safety. In addition, the Company works closely with suppliers to encourage innovation, assure best practices and drive continuous improvement. Leveraging scale, supply chain infrastructure and risk management strategies, the Company also collaborates with suppliers toward a goal of achieving competitive, predictable food and paper costs over the long term. 
  Independently owned and operated distribution centers, approved by the Company, distribute products and supplies to most McDonald s restaurants. In addition, restaurant personnel are trained in the proper storage, handling and preparation of products and in the delivery of customer service. 
  McDonald s global brand is well known. Marketing, promotional and public relations activities are designed to promote McDonald s brand image and differentiate the Company from competitors. Marketing and promotional efforts focus on value, food taste, menu choice, nutrition, convenience and the customer experience. The Company continuously endeavors to improve its social responsibility and environmental practices to achieve long-term sustainability, which benefits McDonald s and the communities it serves. 

Products 
     McDonald s restaurants offer a substantially uniform menu, although there are geographic variations to suit local consumer preferences and tastes. In addition, McDonald s tests new products on an ongoing basis. 
  McDonald s menu includes hamburgers and cheeseburgers, Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Filet-O-Fish, several chicken sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets, Snack Wraps, french fries, salads, oatmeal, shakes, McFlurry desserts, sundaes, soft serve cones, pies, soft drinks, coffee, McCaf  beverages and other beverages. In addition, the restaurants sell a variety of other products during limited-time promotions. 
  McDonald s restaurants in the U.S. and many international markets offer a full or limited breakfast menu. Breakfast offerings may include Egg McMuffin, Sausage McMuffin with Egg, McGriddles, biscuit and bagel sandwiches and hotcakes. 

Intellectual property 
     The Company owns or is licensed to use valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. The Company considers the trademarks  McDonald s  and  The Golden Arches Logo  to be of material importance to its business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks generally are valid as long as they are used and/or registered. Patents, copyrights and licenses are of varying remaining durations. 

Seasonal operations 
     The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. 

Working capital practices 
     Information about the Company s working capital practices is incorporated herein by reference to Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the  

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      1    

years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011  , and   2010   in Part II, Item 7, pages 10 through 26, and the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011  , and   2010   in Part II, Item 8, page 30 of this Form 10-K. 

Customers 
     The Company s business is not dependent upon either a single customer or small group of customers. 

Backlog 
     Company-operated restaurants have no backlog orders. 

Government contracts 
     No material portion of the business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government. 

Competition 
     McDonald s restaurants compete with international, national, regional and local retailers of food products. The Company competes on the basis of price, convenience, service, menu variety and product quality in a highly fragmented global restaurant industry. 
  In measuring the Company s competitive position, management reviews data compiled by Euromonitor International, a leading source of market data with respect to the global restaurant industry. The Company s primary competition, which management refers to as the Informal Eating Out ("IEO") segment, includes the following restaurant categories defined by Euromonitor International: quick-service eating establishments, casual dining full-service restaurants, 100% home delivery/takeaway providers, street stalls or kiosks, specialist coffee shops, juice/smoothie bars and self-service cafeterias. The IEO segment excludes establishments that primarily serve alcohol and full-service restaurants other than casual dining. 
  Based on data from Euromonitor International, the global IEO segment was composed of approximately   7.0 million   outlets and generated   $1.05 trillion   in annual sales in   2011  , the most recent year for which data is available. McDonald s Systemwide 2011 restaurant business accounted for approximately   0.5%   of those outlets and about   8%   of the sales. 
  Management also on occasion benchmarks McDonald s against the entire restaurant industry, including the IEO segment defined above and all other full-service restaurants. Based on data from Euromonitor International, the restaurant industry was composed of approximately   14.8 million   outlets and generated about   $2.11 trillion   in annual sales in   2011  . McDonald s Systemwide restaurant business accounted for approximately   0.2%   of those outlets and about   4%   of the sales. 

Research and development 
     The Company operates research and development facilities in the U.S., Europe and Asia. While research and development activities are important to the Company s business, these expenditures are not material. Independent suppliers also conduct research activities that benefit the Company, its franchisees and suppliers (collectively referred to as the "System"). 

Environmental matters 
     Increased focus by U.S. and overseas governmental authorities on environmental matters is likely to lead to new governmental initiatives, particularly in the area of climate change. While we cannot predict the precise nature of these initiatives, we expect that they may impact our business both directly and indirectly. Although the impact would likely vary by world region and/or market, we believe that adoption of new regulations may increase  

costs, including for the Company, its franchisees and suppliers. Also, there is a possibility that governmental initiatives, or actual or perceived effects of changes in weather patterns or climate, could have a direct impact on the operations of our restaurants or the operations of our suppliers in ways which we cannot predict at this time. 
  The Company monitors developments related to environmental matters and plans to respond to governmental initiatives in a timely and appropriate manner. At this time, the Company has already begun to undertake its own initiatives relating to preservation of the environment, including the development of a means to monitor and reduce energy use, in many of its markets. 

Number of employees 
     The Company s number of employees worldwide, including Company-operated restaurant employees, was approximately   440,000   as of year-end   2012  . 
  d. Financial information about geographic areas 
  Financial information about geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Part II, Item 7, pages 10 through 26 and Segment and geographic information in Part II, Item 8, page 40 of this Form 10-K. 
  e. Available information 
  The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). The Company therefore files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. 
  Financial and other information can also be accessed on the investor section of the Company s website at www.aboutmcdonalds.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of financial and other information are also available free of charge by calling (800) 228-9623 or by sending a request to McDonald s Corporation Shareholder Services, Department 720, One McDonald s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. 
  Also posted on McDonald s website are the Company s Corporate Governance Principles; the charters for each of the Committees of the Board of Directors, including the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance Committee; the Company s Standards of Business Conduct; the Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers; and the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors. Copies of these documents are also available free of charge by calling (800) 228-9623 or by sending a request to McDonald s Corporation Shareholder Services, Department 720, One McDonald s Plaza, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523. 
  Information on the Company s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or the Company s other securities filings and is not a part of them.  

2      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The information on this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for 2013. These statements use such words as  may,   will,   expect,   believe  and  plan.  They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. 
  Our business and execution of our strategic plan, the Plan to Win, are subject to risks. The most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. The IEO segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. The IEO segment has been flat or contracting in many of our markets, including some of our major markets, due to unfavorable global economic conditions, and this environment is expected to continue. Persistently high unemployment rates in many of these markets, and declining economic growth rates or recessionary conditions in some of them, have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. Combined with pressure on labor and occupancy costs and volatility in commodity prices, as well as aggressive competitive activity, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and are expected to continue to pressure margins during 2013 in all of our geographic segments. We have the added challenge of the cultural and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. Initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. Our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food  from field to front counter,  as well as industry marketing practices. 
  These risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. 
  Our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the Plan to Win and our global priorities. 
  The Plan to Win addresses the key drivers of our business and results - people, products, place, price and promotion - and we are focused on our three global priorities that represent the greatest opportunities under our Plan to Win:  optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our Brand. The quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: 
             
    Our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the IEO segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about us, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us; 
                
    The risks associated with our franchise business model, including whether our franchisees and developmental licensees will have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on  

operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives and the potential impact on us if they experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited by law or otherwise, costly to exercise or subject to litigation; 
             
    The success of our tiered approach to menu offerings and our ability to introduce new offerings, as well as the impact of our competitors' actions, including in response to our menu changes, and our ability to continue robust menu development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; 
                
    Our ability to differentiate the McDonald's experience in a way that balances consumer value with margin levels, particularly in markets where pricing or cost pressures are significant or have been exacerbated by the current challenging economic and operating environment; 
                
    The impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins and our ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to changing economic and heightened competitive conditions; 
                
    Our ability to drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours, and to motivate our restaurant personnel and our franchisees to achieve consistency and high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; 
                
    Whether we can complete our restaurant reimaging and rebuilding plans as projected, and whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of Systemwide restaurants, as well as sales and profitability targets; 
                
    The costs and risks associated with our increasing reliance on information systems (e.g., point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms) that support our restaurants and that we make available to franchisees along with related services, including the risk that we will not realize fully the benefits of the significant investments we are making, which are intended to enhance the customer experience; the potential for system failures, programming errors, security breaches involving our systems or those of third-party system operators; legal and tax risks associated with providing these services to franchisees, including those relating to data protection and management; and litigation risk involving intellectual property rights or our rights and obligations to others under related contractual arrangements; 
                
    The success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; 
                
    Our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the IEO segment or about our food (including its nutritional content and preparation), promotions and premiums, such as Happy Meal toys (collectively, our "products"), how we source the commodities we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on McDonald's of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; 
                
    The impact of campaigns by labor organizations and activists or the use of social media and other mobile communications and applications to promote adverse perceptions of our operations or those of our suppliers, or to promote or  

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      3    

threaten boycotts or other actions involving us or our suppliers; 
             
    The impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us or the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the McDonald's System and whose performance has a material impact on our results; 
                
    Our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage our operations and growth; and 
                
    Our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. 
     Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and the prolonged challenging economic environment can be expected to continue to pressure our results. 
  Our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, both globally and in local markets, and conditions can also vary substantially by market. The current global environment has been characterized by persistently weak economies, high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets. Many major economies, both advanced and developing, are also facing significant economic issues. These include, in the U.S., concerns about the federal deficit and the potential adverse effects of the automatic spending cuts that will become effective in early 2013 absent further legislation. The Eurozone debt crisis continues to depress consumer and business confidence and spending in many markets. Important markets in Asia, which have been key drivers of global growth, have been experiencing declining growth rates. Uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. 
  These conditions are adversely affecting sales and/or guest counts in many of our markets, including some of our major markets. To mitigate their impact, we have intensified our focus on value as a driver of guest counts through menu, pricing and promotional actions. These actions have adversely affected our margin percent, and margins will remain under pressure. The key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following: 
             
    Whether our strategies will be effective in enabling the continued market share gains that we have included in our plans, while at the same time enabling us to achieve our targeted operating income growth despite the current adverse economic conditions, resurgent competitors and a more costly and competitive advertising environment; 
                
    The effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply on favorable terms; 
                
    The impact on consumer disposable income levels and spending habits of governmental actions to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers; 
                
    The impact on restaurant sales and margins of ongoing commodity price volatility, and the effectiveness of pricing, hedging and other actions taken to address this environment; 
                
    The impact on our margins of labor costs and the long-term trend toward higher wages and social expenses in both mature and developing markets; 
                
    The impact of foreign exchange and interest rates on our financial condition and results; 

The challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; 
                
    The nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings; 
                
    The increasing focus on workplace practices and conditions, which may drive changes in practices or in the general commercial and regulatory environment that affect perceptions of our business or our cost of doing business; 
                
    The impact of changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants; and 
                
    The impact of an exit from the Eurozone by any of the EU Member States, which could entail disruption to our business as the exiting Member State establishes a new currency and we, along with our suppliers, franchisees and others, address the challenges associated with redenomination. 
     Increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. 
  Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: 
             
    The cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, especially in the United States where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings; 
                
    The impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans, such as those relating to product packaging, marketing and the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, as well as the risks and costs of our labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given varying legal requirements and practices for testing and disclosure within our industry, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers; 
                
    The impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation, including taxation, in ways that could be material to our business; 
                
    The impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor, employment and personal injury claims, franchisee litigation, landlord/tenant disputes and intellectual property claims (including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems); the relative level of our  

4      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have; 
             
    Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; 
                
    The risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, as well as of increased focus by U.S. and overseas governmental and non-governmental organizations on environmental sustainability matters (e.g., climate change, land use, energy and water resources, packaging and waste, and animal health and welfare) and the increased pressure to make commitments or set targets and take actions to meet them, which could expose the Company to market, operational and execution costs or risks, particularly when actions are undertaken Systemwide; 
                
    The increasing costs and other effects of compliance with U.S. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, workplace conditions, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; 
                
    Disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors' operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; 
                
    The legal and compliance risks and costs associated with privacy, consumer data protection and similar laws, particularly as they apply to children, the potential costs (including the loss of consumer confidence) arising from alleged security breaches of our information systems, and the risk of criminal penalties or civil liability to consumers, employees or franchisees whose data is alleged to have been collected or used inappropriately; and 
                
    The impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or related authoritative interpretations), particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the United States and elsewhere, and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the IRS or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. 
     The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. 
  Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: 
             
    The continuing unfavorable global economic and volatile market conditions; 
                
    Governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the United States which is  

the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; 
             
    Changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; 
                
    Trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can reflect market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases) or expectations about our business, our creditworthiness or investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald's may be included, such as the S P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average; 
                
    The impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and 
                
    The impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. 
     Our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. 
  Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. 
                 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 
                 ITEM 2. Properties 

The Company owns and leases real estate primarily in connection with its restaurant business. The Company identifies and develops sites that offer convenience to customers and long-term sales and profit potential to the Company. To assess potential, the Company analyzes traffic and walking patterns, census data and other relevant data. The Company s experience and access to advanced technology aid in evaluating this information. The Company generally owns the land and building or secures long-term leases for restaurant sites, which ensures long-term occupancy rights and helps control related costs. Restaurant profitability for both the Company and franchisees is important; therefore, ongoing efforts are made to control average development costs through construction and design efficiencies, standardization and by leveraging the Company s global sourcing network. Additional information about the Company s properties is included in Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in Part II, Item 7,   pages 10 through 26 and in Financial statements and supplementary data in Part II, Item 8, pages 26 through 43   of this Form 10-K. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      5    

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 

The Company has pending a number of lawsuits that have been filed in various jurisdictions. These lawsuits cover a broad variety of allegations spanning the Company s entire business. The following is a brief description of the more significant types of lawsuits. In addition, the Company is subject to various federal, state and local regulations that impact various aspects of its business, as discussed below. While the Company does not believe that any such claims, lawsuits or regulations will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations, unfavorable rulings could occur. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on net income for the period in which the ruling occurs or for future periods. 

Franchising 
     A substantial number of McDonald s restaurants are franchised to independent entrepreneurs operating under contractual arrangements with the Company. In the course of the franchise relationship, occasional disputes arise between the Company and its franchisees relating to a broad range of subjects including, but not limited to, quality, service and cleanliness issues, contentions regarding grants or terminations of franchises, delinquent payments of rents and fees, and franchisee claims for additional franchises or rewrites of franchises. Additionally, occasional disputes arise between the Company and individuals who claim they should have been granted a McDonald s franchise. 

Suppliers 
     The Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries generally do not supply food, paper or related items to any McDonald s restaurants. The Company relies upon numerous independent suppliers that are required to meet and maintain the Company s high standards and specifications. On occasion, disputes arise between the Company and its suppliers which include, by way of example, compliance with product specifications and the Company s business relationship with suppliers. In addition, disputes occasionally arise on a number of issues between the Company and individuals or entities who claim that they should be (or should have been) granted the opportunity to supply products or services to the Company s restaurants. 

Employees 
     Hundreds of thousands of people are employed by the Company and in restaurants owned and operated by subsidiaries of the Company. In addition, thousands of people from time to time seek employment in such restaurants. In the ordinary course of business, disputes arise regarding hiring, firing, promotion and pay practices, including wage and hour disputes, alleged discrimination and compliance with employment laws. 

Customers 
     Restaurants owned by subsidiaries of the Company regularly serve a broad segment of the public. In so doing, disputes arise as to products, service, incidents, advertising, nutritional and other disclosures, as well as other matters common to an extensive restaurant business such as that of the Company. 

Intellectual Property 
     The Company has registered trademarks and service marks, patents and copyrights, some of which are of material importance to the Company s business. From time to time, the Company may become involved in litigation to protect its intellectual property and defend against the alleged use of third party intellectual property. 

Government Regulations 
     Local, state and federal governments have adopted laws and regulations involving various aspects of the restaurant business including, but not limited to, advertising, franchising, health, safety, environment, zoning and employment. The Company strives to comply with all applicable existing statutory and administrative rules and cannot predict the effect on its operations from the issuance of additional requirements in the future. 
                 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not applicable. 

6      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

The following are the Executive Officers of our Company (as of the date of this filing): 
  Jose Armario  , 53, is Corporate Executive Vice President Global Supply Chain, Development and Franchising, a position he has held since October 2011. He previously served as Group President, McDonald s Canada and Latin America from February 2008 through September 2011 and President, McDonald s Latin America from December 2003 to February 2008. Mr. Armario has been with the Company for 16 years. 
  Peter J. Bensen  , 50, is Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since January 2008. From April 2007 through December 2007, he served as Corporate Senior Vice President Controller. Prior to that time, Mr. Bensen served as Corporate Vice President Assistant Controller from February 2002 through March 2007. Mr. Bensen has been with the Company for 16 years. 
  Timothy J. Fenton  , 55, is Chief Operating Officer, a position he has held since July 2012. From January 2005 through June 2012, he held the position of President, McDonald's Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa and he served as President, East Division for McDonald s USA from May 2003 to January 2005. Mr. Fenton has been with the Company for 39 years. 
  Richard Floersch  , 55, is Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Floersch joined the Company in November 2003. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Kraft Foods from 1998 through 2003. Mr. Floersch has been with the Company for nine years. 
  Douglas M. Goare,   60, is President, McDonald s Europe, a position he has held since October 2011. From February 2011 through September 2011, he served as Corporate Executive Vice President of Supply Chain and Development. From June 2007 through November 2010, he held the position of Corporate Senior Vice President of Supply Chain. In addition to this role, Mr. Goare assumed responsibility for Development in December 2010 and served as Corporate Senior Vice President of Supply Chain and Development through January 2011. Mr. Goare has been with the Company for 34 years. 
  David L. Hoffmann  , 45, is President of Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa, a position he has held since July 2012. From January 2012 through June 2012, he held the position of Senior Vice President and Restaurant Support Officer for Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa. Prior to that time, he held the position of Vice President of Strategy, Insights and Development for Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa from May 2011 through December 2011. From November 2008 through April 2011, he held the position of Executive Vice President of McDonald's Japan. He held the position of Senior Vice President Strategy and Franchising of  

McDonald's Japan from August 2007 through October 2008. Mr. Hoffmann has been with the Company for 16 years. 
  Kenneth M. Koziol  , 53, became Corporate Executive Vice President Chief Restaurant Officer in February 2013. From July 2006 through January 2013, he held the position of Corporate Senior Vice President Innovation. Prior to that time, Mr. Koziol served as Corporate Vice President Restaurant Solutions Group Worldwide Innovation from June 2004 to July 2006. Mr. Koziol has been with the Company for 24 years. 
  Kevin L. Newell,   55, is Corporate Executive Vice President and Global Chief Brand Officer, a position he has held since February 2011. Effective March 1, 2013, Mr. Newell will have a new role as U.S. Chief Brand and Strategy Officer. From September 2009 through January 2011, he served as U.S. Senior Vice President and Restaurant Support Officer for the West Division. Prior to that time, Mr. Newell served as U.S. Vice President   General Manager of the Great Southern Region from November 2006 through August 2009. Mr. Newell has been with the Company for 23 years. 
  Kevin M. Ozan  , 49, is Corporate Senior Vice President Controller, a position he has held since February 2008. From May 2007 through January 2008, he served as Corporate Vice President Assistant Controller. He previously served as a Senior Director in Investor Relations from May 2006 to April 2007. Mr. Ozan has been with the Company for 15 years. 
  Gloria Santona  , 62, is Corporate Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, a position she has held since July 2003. From June 2001 to July 2003, she served as Corporate Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Ms. Santona has been with the Company for 35 years. 
  Jeffrey P. Stratton  , 57, is President, McDonald's USA, a position he has held since December 2012. He previously served as Corporate Executive Vice President Chief Restaurant Officer from January 2005 through November 2012 and prior to that, served as U.S. Executive Vice President, Chief Restaurant Officer from January 2004 through December 2004. Preceding this, he served as Senior Vice President, Chief Restaurant Officer of McDonald s USA from May 2002 to January 2004. Mr. Stratton has been with the Company for 39 years. 
  Donald Thompson,   49, is President and Chief Executive Officer, a position he has held since July 2012. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer from January 2010 through June 2012. Mr. Thompson was also elected a Director in January 2011. Prior to that he served as President, McDonald s USA, from August 2006 to January 2010, and as Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer for McDonald s USA from January 2005 to August 2006. Mr. Thompson has been with the Company for 22 years. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      7    

PART II 

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

MARKET INFORMATION AND DIVIDEND POLICY 
  The Company s common stock trades under the symbol MCD and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the U.S.  The following table sets forth the common stock price ranges on the New York Stock Exchange and dividends declared per common share: 

The number of shareholders of record and beneficial owners of the Company s common stock as of   January 31, 2013   was estimated to be   1,811,000  . 
  Given the Company s returns on equity, incremental invested capital and assets, management believes it is prudent to reinvest in the business in markets with acceptable returns and/or opportunity for long-term growth and use excess cash flow to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The Company has paid dividends on common stock for   37   consecutive years through   2012   and has increased the dividend amount at least once every year. As in the past, future dividend amounts will be considered after reviewing profitability expectations and financing needs, and will be declared at the discretion of the Company s Board of Directors. 
  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  The following table presents information related to repurchases of common stock the Company made during the quarter ended December 31, 2012*: 

8      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

(1) 
    Includes pretax income due to Impairment and other charges (credits), net of $61.1 million ($91.4 million after tax or $0.08 per share) primarily related to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. 
              (2) 
    Includes income of $58.8 million ($0.05 per share) for gain on sale of investment related to the sale of the Company s minority ownership interest in Redbox Automated Retail, LLC. 
              (3) 
    Includes income of $109.0 million ($0.09 per share) for gain on sale of investment from the sale of the Company s minority ownership interest in U.K.- based Pret A Manger. 
              (4) 
    Includes pretax operating charges of $1.7 billion ($1.32 per share) due to Impairment and other charges (credits), net primarily as a result of the Company s sale of its businesses in 18 Latin American and Caribbean markets to a developmental licensee. 
               (6) 
    Includes income of $60.1 million ($0.05 per share) related to discontinued operations primarily from the sale of the Company s investment in Boston Market. 
              (7) 
    Represents treasury stock purchases as reflected in Shareholders' equity. 
              (8) 
    While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes they are important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. Franchised restaurants represent more than 80% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      9    

ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 
  DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS 
  The Company franchises and operates McDonald s restaurants. Of the   34,480   restaurants in   119   countries at year-end   2012  ,   27,882   were franchised or licensed (including   19,869   franchised to conventional franchisees,   4,350   licensed to developmental licensees and   3,663   licensed to foreign affiliates ("affiliates") primarily Japan) and   6,598   were operated by the Company. Under our conventional franchise arrangement, franchisees provide a portion of the capital required by initially investing in the equipment, signs, seating and d cor of their restaurant business, and by reinvesting in the business over time. The Company owns the land and building or secures long-term leases for both Company-operated and conventional franchised restaurant sites. This maintains long-term occupancy rights, helps control related costs and assists in alignment with franchisees. In certain circumstances, the Company participates in reinvestment for conventional franchised restaurants. Under our developmental license arrangement, licensees provide capital for the entire business, including the real estate interest, and the Company has no capital invested. In addition, the Company has an equity investment in a limited number of affiliates that invest in real estate and operate or franchise restaurants within a market. 
  We view ourselves primarily as a franchisor and believe franchising is important to delivering great, locally-relevant customer experiences and driving profitability. However, directly operating restaurants is paramount to being a credible franchisor and is essential to providing Company personnel with restaurant operations experience. In our Company-operated restaurants, and in collaboration with franchisees, we further develop and refine operating standards, marketing concepts and product and pricing strategies, so that only those that we believe are most beneficial are introduced in the restaurants. We continually review, and as appropriate adjust, our mix of Company-operated and franchised or licensed (conventional franchised, developmental licensed and foreign affiliated) restaurants to help optimize overall performance. 
  The Company s revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from restaurants licensed to affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees. Fees vary by type of site, amount of Company investment, if any, and local business conditions. These fees, along with occupancy and operating rights, are stipulated in franchise/license agreements that generally have 20-year terms. 
  The business is managed as distinct geographic segments. Significant reportable segments include the United States ("U.S."), Europe, and Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa ("APMEA"). In addition, throughout this report we present  Other Countries   Corporate  that includes operations in Canada and Latin America, as well as Corporate activities. The U.S., Europe and APMEA segments account for   32%  ,   39%   and   23%   of total revenues, respectively. The United Kingdom ("U.K."), France and Germany, collectively, account for 51% of Europe s revenues; and China, Australia and Japan (a 50%-owned affiliate accounted for under the equity method), collectively, account for 56% of APMEA s revenues. These six markets along with the U.S. and Canada are referred to as  major markets  throughout this report and comprise    70%   of total revenues. 
  In analyzing business trends, management considers a variety of performance and financial measures, including  

comparable sales and comparable guest count growth, Systemwide sales growth and returns. 
             
    Constant currency results exclude the effects of foreign currency translation and are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results in constant currencies and bases certain incentive compensation plans on these results because we believe this better represents the Company s underlying business trends. 
                
    Comparable sales and comparable guest counts are key performance indicators used within the retail industry and are indicative of acceptance of the Company s initiatives as well as local economic and consumer trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales and comparable guest counts represent the percent change in sales and transactions, respectively, from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix. Generally, the goal is to achieve a balanced contribution from both guest counts and average check. 
     McDonald s reports on a calendar basis and therefore the comparability of the same month, quarter and year with the corresponding period of the prior year will be impacted by the mix of days. The number of weekdays and weekend days in a given timeframe can have a positive or negative impact on comparable sales and guest counts. The Company refers to these impacts as calendar shift/trading day adjustments. In addition, the timing of holidays can impact comparable sales and guest counts. These impacts vary geographically due to consumer spending patterns and have the greatest effect on monthly comparable sales and guest counts while the annual impacts are typically minimal. 
             
    Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company s financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. 
                
    Return on incremental invested capital ("ROIIC") is a measure reviewed by management over one-year and three-year time periods to evaluate the overall profitability of the business units, the effectiveness of capital deployed and the future allocation of capital. The return is calculated by dividing the change in operating income plus depreciation and amortization (numerator) by the cash used for investing activities (denominator), primarily capital expenditures. The calculation uses a constant average foreign exchange rate over the periods included in the calculation. 
     STRATEGIC DIRECTION AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
  The strength of the alignment between the Company, its franchisees and suppliers (collectively referred to as the "System") has been key to McDonald's success. This business model enables McDonald's to consistently deliver locally-relevant restaurant experiences to customers and be an integral part of the communities we serve. In addition, it facilitates our ability to  identify, implement and scale innovative ideas that meet customers' changing needs and preferences.  

10      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

McDonald's customer-focused Plan to Win ("Plan") provides a common framework for our global business while allowing for local adaptation. Through the execution of multiple initiatives surrounding the five pillars of our Plan People, Products, Place, Price and Promotion we have enhanced the restaurant experience for customers worldwide and grown global comparable sales and guest counts in each of the last nine years. This Plan, combined with financial discipline, has delivered strong results for our shareholders since its inception. To measure our performance as we continue to build the business, we have the following long-term, average annual constant currency financial targets: 
             
    Systemwide sales growth of 3% to 5%;  
                
    Operating income growth of 6% to 7%; 
                
    ROIIC in the high teens.   
     Prior to 2012, we exceeded each of these financial targets every year since the Plan's implementation in 2003, after adjusting for the loss in 2007 from the Latin America developmental license transaction. These targets have enabled us to make the best decisions for the long-term benefit of our shareholders, and we believe they remain realistic and sustainable for a company of our size. 
  In 2012, Systemwide sales growth was 3% (5% in constant currencies), operating income growth was 1% (4% in constant currencies), one-year ROIIC was 15.4% and three-year ROIIC was 28.6% (see reconciliation on page 24). Persistent global economic headwinds, heightened competitive activity and inflationary costs impacted results. In addition, planned strategic decisions, such as the 2012 London Olympics sponsorship, investing in technology and the biennial Worldwide Owner/Operator convention, also impacted results.   
  In 2012, we continued to focus on customers' needs and remained aligned on our Plan and the three global growth priorities of optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience, and broadening accessibility to our brand. We believe these priorities are relevant and actionable, and combined with our competitive advantages, will drive long-term sustainable growth. Initiatives supporting these priorities resonated with customers and drove increases in global comparable sales and guest counts of 3.1% and 1.6%, respectively, despite challenging economies and a relatively flat or declining Informal Eating Out ("IEO") segment in most markets. In 2012, we continued to grow market share in the U.S., Europe and APMEA, amid a more competitive global environment and a slight decline in our fourth quarter comparable guest counts. 
  Comparable sales are impacted by guest counts, product mix shifts and menu pricing. Specific menu pricing actions across our system reflect local market conditions as well as other factors, notably food away from home and food at home inflation indices. In our Company-operated restaurants, we manage menu board prices to ensure value at all price points, increase profitability and mitigate inflation, all while trying to grow guest counts. In order to accomplish these objectives, we utilize a strategic pricing tool that balances price and product mix. Franchisees also have access to, and many utilize, this strategic pricing tool. In general, we believe franchisees employ a similar pricing strategy. We look to optimize product mix by utilizing a menu with entry-point value, core, premium and promotional offerings. We also introduce new products to meet customers' needs, which can expand average check and increase guest counts. In 2012, average prices increased at Company-operated restaurants in each area of the world, although increases varied by market and region. 
  U.S. 
  In the U.S., comparable sales increased for the tenth consecutive year, rising 3.3% in 2012, while comparable guest counts rose  

1.9%. These results were achieved despite only modest growth in the IEO segment and heightened competitive activity. In the second half of the year, we experienced softer performance; therefore, we adjusted our plans to re-energize our all-day everyday value offerings while providing the menu variety customers expect from McDonald's.   
  In 2012, we continued to highlight beverages, value, breakfast, and our classic core favorites. We expanded our McCaf  beverage offerings with the Chocolate Chip Frapp  and Cherry Berry Chiller. Limited-time offers, such as Chicken McBites and the Cheddar Bacon Onion premium sandwiches, complemented our core menu offerings. 
  Modernizing the customer experience continued through our major remodeling initiative, which provides contemporary restaurant designs and retailing efforts. The enhanced appearance and functionality of our restaurants deliver a more relevant experience for our customers. Over 900 existing restaurants were remodeled during 2012 with the majority adding drive-thru capacity to capture additional guest counts.  
  We broadened the accessibility of our convenient locations through extended hours and efficient drive-thru service. More than half of our restaurants use some form of multiple order points to maximize drive-thru capacity, including 1,500 with hand-held order takers to help improve customer service times. To further build on our competitive advantage, we focused on operations excellence initiatives to drive customer satisfaction as we strive to deliver fast, accurate and friendly service with every order. 
  Europe 
  In Europe, comparable sales rose 2.4%, marking the ninth consecutive year of comparable sales increases, while guest counts declined 0.5%. While low consumer confidence continues to negatively affect overall retail sales and the IEO segment, we outperformed the market and grew market share. Major contributors to comparable sales were the U.K. and Russia. Despite ongoing economic challenges, the segment's priority remains growing the overall business by balancing a strong focus on our unique value offerings, ongoing premium product innovation, and new products.  
  Europe continued to see the benefit of providing a relevant, contemporary customer experience and completed almost 750 restaurant reimages. By the end of 2012, over 90% of restaurant interiors and approximately 50% of exteriors had been reimaged. Europe also invested in a roll-out of a new point-of-sale system, which allows us to continue to expand our menu offerings and improve order accuracy. By the end of 2012, over 2,200 restaurants had deployed this system. 
  We expanded our coffee business and have over 1,600 McCaf  locations, which in Europe are generally separate areas inside the restaurants that serve specialty coffees, desserts and snacks. In addition, we increased our accessibility and convenience with extended operating hours, self-order kiosks, optimized drive-thrus, and opened over 250 new restaurants.  
  APMEA 
  In APMEA, comparable sales rose 1.4% and comparable guest counts rose 2.2%, despite a challenging year of economic pressures, partly due to Japan's uneven recovery and China's slower economic growth. Positive performance was driven by China, Australia and many other markets. Unique value platforms, great tasting premium menu selections, locally-relevant menu variety, and convenience and service enhancements differentiated the McDonald's experience. Australia launched the  Loose Change Menu,  which is a branded affordability menu, while China focused on breakfast, lunch, and dinner value platforms. Value initiatives were balanced with mid-tier offers, such as Bubble Tea in China, and premium limited-time offers, such as the Serious Lamb Burger and Wrap in Australia.  

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      11    

Our breakfast business has expanded and is offered in approximately 75% of APMEA restaurants. Desserts continued to play a meaningful role, particularly in China, where we remain one of the largest ice cream retailers.   
  We opened over 750 new restaurants in APMEA, of which over 250 were in China, where we have made significant progress toward our goal of 2,000 restaurants by the end of 2013. Nearly two-thirds of APMEA restaurants are offering some form of extended operating hours and over 5,400 restaurants are open 24 hours. Delivery is offered in many APMEA markets and is now available in over 1,700 restaurants, including nearly 550 in China.  
  Since Japan's natural disaster in March of 2011, the economy remains a challenge. Despite a declining IEO segment, McDonald's is gaining market share through a value platform of 100, 250, and 500 YEN offerings, and family sharing boxes, such as 15-piece Chicken McNuggets. Japan augmented its value platform with strategic couponing to encourage add-on and Extra Value Meal purchases. 
  Consolidated 
  Globally, our approach to offering affordable value to our customers is complemented by a focus on driving operating efficiencies and leveraging our scale, supply chain infrastructure and our suppliers' risk management practices to manage costs. We were able to execute our strategies in every area of the world, grow comparable sales and control selling, general and administrative expenses. However, in 2012 we faced top- and bottom-line pressures, some a result of planned strategic decisions, and others driven by the external environment. As a result, combined operating margin (operating income as a percent of total revenues) was 31.2% in 2012, down 0.4 percentage points as compared to 2011.  
  In 2012, cash from operations was nearly $7.0 billion. Our substantial cash flow, strong credit rating and continued access to credit provide us flexibility to fund capital expenditures as well as return cash to shareholders. Capital expenditures of approximately $3.0 billion were invested in our business primarily to reimage existing restaurants and open new restaurants. Across the System, over 1,400 restaurants were opened and about 2,400 existing locations were reimaged. In addition, we returned $5.5 billion to shareholders consisting of $2.9 billion in dividends and $2.6 billion in share repurchases.    
  Cash from operations continues to benefit from our heavily franchised business model as the rent and royalty income received from owner/operators is a stable revenue stream that has relatively low costs. In addition, the franchise business model is less capital intensive than the Company-owned model. We believe locally-owned and operated restaurants maximize brand performance and are at the core of our competitive advantages, making McDonald's not just a global brand but also a locally  relevant one. 
  HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE YEAR INCLUDED: 
              
    Revenues   increased     2%   (  5%   in constant currencies). 
                
    Operating income   increased     1%   (  4%   in constant currencies). 
                
    Diluted earnings per share was   $5.36  , an increase of   2%   (  5%   in constant currencies). 
                
    Cash provided by operations was nearly $7.0 billion. 

The Company increased the quarterly cash dividend per share   10%   to   $0.77   for the fourth quarter bringing our current annual dividend to   $3.08   per share.  
                
    The Company returned   $5.5 billion   to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. 
     OUTLOOK FOR   2013    
  We will continue to build the business in 2013 and beyond by enhancing the customer experience across all pillars of our Plan and our three global growth priorities to optimize our menu, modernize the customer experience and broaden accessibility to our brand. We remain focused on seizing the long-term opportunities in the $1 trillion IEO segment by leveraging our competitive advantages. We have a brand advantage in convenience, menu variety and value, a resilient business model, and the experience and alignment throughout the McDonald's System to navigate the current environment. 
  Our number one priority continues to be satisfying our customers' needs by serving great-tasting, high-quality food in contemporary restaurants. This focus on our customers is particularly critical in this uncertain environment, where ongoing volatility continues to negatively impact consumer sentiment and spending. We anticipate a continued flat to declining IEO segment in many of the markets where we operate. Growing market share will remain our focus to attain sustainable and profitable long-term growth.  
  We will highlight promotions of our core menu favorites, while strategically expanding our menu with relevant new offerings across all dayparts, including premium products that can deliver a higher average check. We will place an even greater emphasis on scaling success quickly around the globe. For example, in many markets we will expand our innovative McBites line-up, introduce existing products like our blended ice beverages and large McWraps into new markets, and offer even more of the unique, flavor-based promotional food events that have been successful. We will emphasize our dayparts like breakfast and extended hours that are still growing globally in both established and emerging markets. We will enhance the customer experience by continuing to reimage our building interiors and exteriors and by providing our restaurant teams with the appropriate tools, training, and technology. The accessibility efforts will include increasing the level and variety of conveniences provided to our customers through new restaurant openings, extended operating hours, stronger value platforms, and faster, more accurate service through innovative order taking. With operational and financial discipline, we will execute these priorities to increase McDonald's brand relevance. 
  We will continue to build customer trust through our commitment to sustainability including nutrition and well-being, a sustainable supply chain, environmental responsibility, employee experience, and the community.   
  U.S. 
  In 2013, the U.S. business will focus on driving sales and guest counts by enhancing the entire customer experience through the pillars of the Plan and the three global priorities. Our menu pipeline is more balanced in 2013, with a continued focus on great taste, quality ingredients and variety. We will satisfy our customers' needs with the food they crave by balancing core favorites with limited time offers and innovative new products across the menu. Menu news will be augmented with brand messages that highlight our quality food ingredients, efforts around promoting children's well-being and community involvement. We will enhance our Dollar Menu and introduce new products to highlight McDonald's value at every price point, across all menu categories. We are continuing our major remodel program by updating about 800 locations in 2013. At the same time, we are continuing to improve  

12      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

restaurant operations through appropriate staffing and a focus on friendly, accurate service as well as innovative order taking. In addition, we will increase the number of restaurants that operate 24 hours a day and strive to be our customers' favorite eating-out destination.  
  Europe 
  In Europe, we see growth opportunities in breakfast, core menu items, beverages, and extended hours. Our business plans are focused on building market share by emphasizing value across all dayparts and new restaurant growth. In some markets, our value offerings will evolve from a low-end entry price to multiple entry prices across our menu. This value menu evolution is intended to grow guest counts with compelling affordability and enhanced trade-up opportunities through an extended range of options.  In 2013, we will reimage approximately 450 restaurants as we progress towards our goal of having 100% of our interiors and over 85% of our exteriors reimaged by the end of 2015. We will also open nearly 300 restaurants. We will leverage production and service enhancements by optimizing kitchen platforms and accelerating the deployment of technologies, such as updating the point-of-sale system and rolling out multiple order points via self-order kiosks, hand-held order devices and side-by-side drive-thrus. These initiatives will enhance the customer experience, help drive guest counts and improve labor efficiency. We will also continue to reduce our impact on the environment with energy management tools. Despite the near-term headwinds due to economic uncertainty and government-initiated austerity measures implemented in many countries, Europe offers significant long-term opportunity, and we are well-positioned to capitalize on this segment's potential.   
  APMEA 
  In APMEA, we will advance efforts to become our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink by reinvigorating our long-term value platforms, accelerating growth at breakfast, and focusing on menu variety and convenience. Value will continue to be a key strategy and growth driver to build traffic with a focus across the menu at all dayparts, combined with trade-up strategies to build average check. For example, Australia will evolve its Loose Change Menu, and Japan will focus on building average check through trade-up opportunities with promotional products and a focus on breakfast. We plan to grow breakfast traffic in APMEA through increased marketing efforts, value, accessibility and operations excellence. The markets will continue to balance core and limited-time offers and will execute a series of exciting food events that celebrate our core menu and the segment's all-time favorite product offerings. At the same time, we will continue to leverage the diversity of the segment to identify and scale new products and platforms. Convenience initiatives will focus on optimizing our drive-thru and delivery services through operation efficiencies and online capabilities. In China, for example, a new web-ordering system will enhance the customer experience and drive new demand through delivery. We will grow our business by opening approximately 850 new restaurants and reimaging about 225 existing restaurants while elevating our focus on service and operations. In China, we will continue to build a foundation for long-term growth by opening over 300 restaurants, consistent with our goal of reaching 2,000 restaurants by the end of 2013. 
  Consolidated 
  Globally, we will maintain financial discipline by effectively managing spending. In making capital allocation decisions, our goal is to make investments that elevate the McDonald's experience and drive sustainable growth in sales and market share. We focus on markets that generate acceptable returns or have opportunities for long-term growth. We remain committed to returning all of our free cash flow (cash from operations less  

capital expenditures) to shareholders over the long-term via dividends and share repurchases.  
  McDonald's does not provide specific guidance on diluted earnings per share. The following information is provided to assist in analyzing the Company's results:  
             
    Changes in Systemwide sales are driven by comparable sales and net restaurant unit expansion. The Company expects net restaurant additions to add approximately 2.5 percentage points to 2013 Systemwide sales growth (in constant currencies), most of which will be due to the 1,135 net traditional restaurants added in 2012.  
                
    The Company does not generally provide specific guidance on changes in comparable sales. However, as a perspective, assuming no change in cost structure, a 1 percentage point increase in comparable sales for either the U.S. or Europe would increase annual diluted earnings per share by about 4 cents.   
                
    With about 75% of McDonald's grocery bill comprised of 10 different commodities, a basket of goods approach is the most comprehensive way to look at the Company's commodity costs. For the full year 2013, the total basket of goods cost is expected to increase 1.5-2.5% in the U.S. and 3-4% in Europe.  
                
    The Company expects full-year 2013 selling, general and administrative expenses to increase approximately 2-3% in constant currencies, with fluctuations expected between the quarters.  
                
    Based on current interest and foreign currency exchange rates, the Company expects interest expense for the full year 2013 to increase approximately 4-6% compared with 2012.   
                
    A significant part of the Company's operating income is generated outside the U.S., and about 35% of its total debt is denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, earnings are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. Collectively, these currencies represent approximately 65% of the Company's operating income outside the U.S. If all four of these currencies moved by 10% in the same direction, the Company's annual diluted earnings per share would change by about 25 cents. 
                
    The Company expects the effective income tax rate for the full-year 2013 to be 31% to 33%. Some volatility may be experienced between the quarters resulting in a quarterly tax rate that is outside the annual range. As a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, our income tax provision for the first quarter of 2013 will include a tax benefit of about $50 million reflecting the retroactive impact of certain tax benefits, which may result in a first quarter effective tax rate below the full year range.  
                
    The Company expects capital expenditures for 2013 to be approximately $3.2 billion. Over half of this amount will be used to open new restaurants. The Company expects to open between 1,500 - 1,600 restaurants including about 500 restaurants in affiliated and developmental licensee markets, such as Japan and Latin America, where the Company does not fund any capital expenditures. The Company expects net additions of between 1,200 - 1,300 traditional restaurants. The remaining capital will be used to reinvest in existing locations, in part through reimaging. More than 1,600 restaurants worldwide are expected to be reimaged, including locations in affiliated and developmental licensee markets that require no capital investment from the Company. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      13    

Consolidated Operating Results 

nm Not meaningful 
  IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS 
  While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald s mitigates exposures, where practical, by financing in local currencies, hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows, and purchasing goods and services in local currencies. 
  In 2012, foreign currency translation had a negative impact on consolidated operating results primarily due to the weaker Euro, along with most other currencies. In 2011, foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated operating results driven by the stronger Euro and Australian Dollar, as well as most other currencies. In 2010, foreign currency translation had a positive impact on consolidated operating results driven by stronger global currencies, primarily the Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar, partly offset by the weaker Euro.  
    
  Impact of foreign currency translation on reported results 

14      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

NET INCOME AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
  In   2012  , net income decreased 1% (increased 3% in constant currencies) to   $5.5 billion   and diluted earnings per common share increased 2% (5% in constant currencies) to   $5.36  . Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of   $0.17   per share on diluted earnings per share. Net income and diluted earnings per share growth in constant currencies were positively impacted by growth in franchised margin dollars, partly offset by a higher effective income tax rate and higher selling, general and administrative expenses. A decrease of   2%   in diluted weighted average shares outstanding also contributed to the diluted earnings per share growth in 2012. 
  In 2011, net income increased 11% (7% in constant currencies) to $5.5 billion and diluted earnings per common share increased  

15% (11% in constant currencies) to $5.27. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.19 per share on diluted earnings per share. Net income and diluted earnings per share growth in 2011 in constant currencies were positively impacted by growth in franchised margin dollars, and to a lesser extent, Company-operated margin dollars, partly offset by a higher effective income tax rate. A decrease of   3%   in diluted weighted average shares outstanding also contributed to the diluted earnings per share growth in 2011.  
  The Company repurchased   28.1 million   shares of its stock for   $2.6 billion   in   2012   and   41.9 million   shares of its stock for   $3.4 billion   in   2011  , driving reductions in weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis in both periods. 

REVENUES 
  The Company s revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to foreign affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees. 
  In   2012   and   2011  , constant currency revenue growth was driven primarily by positive comparable sales as well as expansion. 

In the U.S., the increase in revenues in 2012 was primarily due to positive comparable sales. Everyday value offerings, menu variety and the enhanced customer experience due to reimaging contributed positively to results, despite broad competitive activity. Revenues in 2011 were positively impacted by the ongoing appeal of our iconic core products and the success of new products, including additions to the McCaf  beverage line, as well as continued focus on everyday value, convenience and modernizing the customer experience. 
  Europe s constant currency increases in revenues in 2012 and 2011 were primarily driven by positive comparable sales in the U.K. and Russia, the segment's two largest Company-operated restaurant markets, as well as expansion in Russia. Revenues in 2011 also benefited from comparable sales increases in France and Germany. 

In APMEA, the constant currency increase in revenues in 2012 was driven by positive comparable sales in China, Australia and many other markets. The constant currency increase in revenues in 2011 was primarily driven by comparable sales increases in China and most other markets. Expansion, primarily in China, also contributed to revenue growth in both periods. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      15    

The following tables present comparable sales, comparable guest counts and Systemwide sales   increases/(decreases)  : 

Franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, but are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. The following table presents franchised sales and the related increases/(decreases): 
  Franchised sales 

RESTAURANT MARGINS 
             
    Franchised margins 
     Franchised margin dollars represent revenues from franchised restaurants less the Company s occupancy costs (rent and depreciation) associated with those sites. Franchised margin dollars represented about two-thirds of the combined restaurant margins in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . Franchised margin dollars   increased     $205 million   or   3%   (  6%   in constant currencies) in   2012   and   $768 million   or   12%   (  9%   in constant currencies) in   2011  . Positive comparable sales were the primary driver of the constant currency growth in franchised margin dollars in both years. 

Franchised margins   

  In the U.S., the franchised margin percent was flat in 2012 as comparable sales performance was offset by higher depreciation related to reimaging. The increase in 2011 was primarily due to positive comparable sales, partly offset by higher occupancy expenses. 
  In Europe, the franchised margin percent decrease in 2012 reflected positive comparable sales and higher occupancy costs.  The increase in 2011 was primarily due to positive comparable sales, partly offset by higher occupancy expenses.   

16      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

In APMEA, the franchised margin percent decrease in 2012 was primarily due to Australia, which was partly impacted by the 2012 change in classification of certain amounts from revenues to restaurant occupancy expenses. Although the change in classification resulted in a decrease to the franchised margin percentage, there was no impact on the reported franchised margin dollars. The increase in 2011 was primarily due to a contractual escalation in the royalty rate for Japan in addition to positive comparable sales in most markets, partly offset by a negative impact from the strengthening of the Australian dollar.  
  The franchised margin percent in APMEA and Other Countries   Corporate is higher relative to the U.S. and Europe due to a larger proportion of developmental licensed and/or affiliated restaurants where the Company receives royalty income with no corresponding occupancy costs. 
             
    Company-operated margins 
     Company-operated margin dollars represent sales by Company-operated restaurants less the operating costs of these restaurants. Company-operated margin dollars decreased $76 million or 2% (increased 1% in constant currencies) in 2012, and increased $282 million or 9% (5% in constant currencies) in 2011. In 2012, Company-operated margin dollars were negatively impacted by foreign currency translation of $97 million, primarily in Europe. On a constant currency basis, the increase in Company-operated margin dollars was due to positive performance in Europe, offset by lower results in APMEA and the U.S. as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher costs.  The growth in Company-operated margin dollars in 2011 was driven by positive comparable sales partly offset by higher costs, primarily commodity costs, in all segments. Foreign currency translation also had a positive impact on results. 
  Company-operated margins 

In the U.S., the Company-operated margin percent decreased in 2012 primarily due to higher commodity and labor costs, partly offset by positive comparable sales. The margin percent decreased in 2011 due to higher commodity and occupancy costs, partly offset by positive comparable sales.  
  Europe s Company-operated margin percent decreased in 2012 primarily due to higher labor and commodity costs across several markets, despite positive comparable sales in Russia and the U.K. The margin percent decreased in 2011 as higher commodity, labor, and occupancy costs were partly offset by positive comparable sales.  
  In APMEA, the Company-operated margin percent in 2012 decreased primarily due to higher labor and occupancy costs, partly offset by positive comparable sales. The margin percent decreased in 2011 as higher commodity, labor and occupancy costs were partly offset by positive comparable sales. Acceleration of new restaurant openings in China negatively impacted the  

margin percent in both periods. Similar to other markets, new restaurants in China initially open with lower margins that grow significantly over time.  
  Supplemental information regarding Company-operated restaurants 
  We continually review our restaurant ownership mix with a goal of improving local relevance, profits and returns. In most cases, franchising is the best way to achieve these goals, but as previously stated, Company-operated restaurants are also important to our success. 
  We report results for Company-operated restaurants based on their sales, less costs directly incurred by that business including occupancy costs. We report the results for franchised restaurants based on franchised revenues, less associated occupancy costs. For this reason and because we manage our business based on geographic segments and not on the basis of our ownership structure, we do not specifically allocate selling, general and administrative expenses and other operating (income) expenses to Company-operated or franchised restaurants. Other operating items that relate to the Company-operated restaurants generally include gains/losses on sales of restaurant businesses and write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements. 
  We believe the following information about Company-operated restaurants in our most significant segments provides an additional perspective on this business. Management of the Company considers this information when evaluating restaurant ownership mix, subject to other relevant considerations. 
  The following table seeks to illustrate the two components of our Company-operated margins. The first of these relates exclusively to restaurant operations, which we refer to as  Store operating margin.  The second relates to the value of our brand and the real estate interest we retain for which we charge rent and royalties. We refer to this component as  Brand/real estate margin.  Both Company-operated and conventional franchised restaurants are charged rent and royalties, although rent and royalties for Company-operated restaurants are eliminated in consolidation. Rent and royalties for both restaurant ownership types are based on a percentage of sales, and the actual rent percentage varies depending on the level of McDonald s investment in the restaurant. Royalty rates may also vary by market. 
  As shown in the following table, in disaggregating the components of our Company-operated margins, certain costs with respect to Company-operated restaurants are reflected in Brand/real estate margin. Those costs consist of rent payable by McDonald s to third parties on leased sites and depreciation for buildings and leasehold improvements and constitute a portion of occupancy   other operating expenses recorded in the Consolidated statement of income. Store operating margins reflect rent and royalty expenses, and those amounts are accounted for as income in calculating Brand/real estate margin. 
  While we believe that the following information provides a perspective in evaluating our Company-operated business, it is not intended as a measure of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating income or restaurant margins as reported by the Company in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. In particular, as noted previously, we do not allocate selling, general and administrative expenses to our Company-operated business. However, we believe that about $50,000 per restaurant, on average, is the typical cost to support this business in the U.S. The actual costs in markets outside the 
  U.S. will vary depending on local circumstances and the organizational structure of the market. These costs reflect the indirect services we believe are necessary to provide the appropriate support of the restaurant. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      17    

(1) 
    Represents certain costs recorded as occupancy   other operating expenses in the Consolidated statement of income   rent payable by McDonald s to third parties on leased sites and depreciation for buildings and leasehold improvements. This adjustment is made to reflect these occupancy costs in Brand/real estate margin. The relative percentage of sites that are owned versus leased varies by country. 

SELLING, GENERAL   ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
  Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3% (4% in constant currencies) in 2012 and increased 3% (flat in constant currencies) in 2011. The growth rate for 2012 was primarily due to higher employee costs, the 2012 London Olympics sponsorship, higher technology related costs and the 2012 Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention, partly offset by lower incentive-based compensation. The growth rate for 2011 was flat as higher employee and other costs were offset by lower incentive-based compensation and costs in 2010 related to the Vancouver Olympics and the Company s 2010 Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention.  
  Selling, general   administrative expenses 

(1) 
    Included in Other Countries   Corporate are home office support costs in areas such as facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, legal, marketing, restaurant operations, supply chain and training. 
     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenues were   8.9%   in   2012   and   2011  , and   9.7%   in   2010  . Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales were   2.8%   in   2012   and   2011  , and   3.0%   in   2010  . Management believes that analyzing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales, as well as revenues, is meaningful because these costs are incurred to support the overall McDonald's business. 

18      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

IMPAIRMENT AND OTHER CHARGES (CREDITS), NET 
  Impairment and other charges (credits), net 

In 2010, the Company recorded expense of $29 million primarily related to its share of restaurant closing costs in McDonald s Japan in conjunction with the strategic review of the market s restaurant portfolio, partly offset by income related to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. 
  OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET 
  Other operating (income) expense, net 

Gains on sales of restaurant businesses 
     Gains on sales of restaurant businesses include gains from sales of Company-operated restaurants. The Company s purchases and sales of businesses with its franchisees are aimed at achieving an optimal ownership mix in each market. Resulting gains or losses  

are recorded in operating income because the transactions are a recurring part of our business. Gains on sales of restaurant businesses increased in 2012 due primarily to sales of restaurants in China to developmental licensees, as well as sales of restaurants in Europe and Canada.   
             
    Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 
     Unconsolidated affiliates and partnerships are businesses in which the Company actively participates, but does not control. The Company records equity in earnings from these entities representing McDonald s share of results. For foreign affiliated markets primarily Japan results are reported after interest expense and income taxes. McDonald s share of results for partnerships in certain consolidated markets such as the U.S. is reported before income taxes. These partnership restaurants are operated under conventional franchise arrangements and, therefore, are classified as conventional franchised restaurants. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased in 2012 due to lower operating results, primarily in Japan. Results in 2011 reflected a benefit from stronger foreign currencies, partly offset by the decline in the number of unconsolidated partnerships in the U.S.    
             
    Asset dispositions and other expense 
     Asset dispositions and other expense consists of gains or losses on excess property and other asset dispositions, provisions for restaurant closings and uncollectible receivables, asset write-offs due to restaurant reinvestment, and other miscellaneous income and expenses. Asset dispositions and other expense increased in 2012 primarily due to lower gains on unconsolidated partnership dissolutions in the U.S.  Results in 2011 reflected higher gains on unconsolidated partnership dissolutions in the U.S.  

OPERATING INCOME 
  Operating income 

nm Not meaningful 
    
    In the U.S., results for 2012 increased due to higher franchised margin dollars, partly offset by lower other operating income and Company-operated margin dollars. Results for 2011 increased primarily due to higher combined restaurant margin dollars, mostly from franchised margin dollars. 
  In Europe, results for 2012 were driven by strong operating performance in Russia and the U.K. The segment's constant currency operating results benefited from higher franchised margin dollars, and to a lesser extent, Company-operated margin dollars. These results also benefited from higher gains on sales of restaurants, primarily in France and Germany, partly offset by incremental selling, general and administrative expenses related to the 2012 London Olympics. Results for 2011 were driven by stronger operating performance in France, the U.K., Russia and Germany, and higher combined restaurant margin dollars, primarily franchised margin dollars. 

In APMEA, results for 2012 increased primarily due to higher franchised margin dollars and gains on sales of restaurants in China to developmental licensees, partly offset by lower Company-operated margin dollars and lower operating results in Japan. Results for 2011 increased due to stronger operating results in many markets. Impairment charges in 2010 also positively impacted the constant currency growth rate for 2011 by 4 percentage points.  
             
    Combined operating margin 
     Combined operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. Combined operating margin for 2012, 2011 and 2010 was 31.2%, 31.6% and 31.0%, respectively.  

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      19    

INTEREST EXPENSE 
  Interest expense increased 5% and 9% in 2012 and 2011, respectively, primarily due to higher average debt balances, partly offset by lower average interest rates. Stronger foreign currencies also contributed to the increase in 2011. 
  NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET 
  Nonoperating (income) expense, net 

Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on short-term cash investments. Foreign currency and hedging activity includes net gains or losses on certain hedges that reduce the exposure to variability on certain intercompany foreign currency cash flow streams.  
  PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 
  In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the reported effective income tax rates were   32.4%  ,   31.3%   and 29.3%, respectively. 
  In 2012, the effective income tax rate reflected the negative impact of certain tax benefits in the U.S. that had expired at December 31, 2011. In January 2013, the United States enacted the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 ("Act"). The Act reinstated, retroactive to January 1, 2012, certain tax benefits that had previously expired. However, in accordance with the financial accounting standards for income taxes, the Company is required to account for the effects of changes in tax laws in the period the legislation is enacted.   
  In 2011, the effective income tax rate reflected lower tax benefits related to certain foreign tax credits, partially offset by nonrecurring deferred tax benefits related to certain foreign operations. 
  Consolidated net deferred tax liabilities included tax assets, net of valuation allowance, of   $1.5 billion   in 2012 and 2011. Substantially all of the net tax assets are expected to be realized in the U.S. and other profitable markets. 
  ACCOUNTING CHANGES 
             
    Fair value measurements 
     In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued an update to Topic 820   Fair Value Measurement of the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). This update provides guidance on how fair value accounting should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards and does not extend the use of fair value accounting. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2012, as required, and it did not have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.  

Comprehensive Income 
     In June 2011, the FASB issued an update to Topic 220   Comprehensive Income of the ASC. The update is intended to increase the prominence of other comprehensive income in the financial statements. The guidance requires that the Company presents components of comprehensive income in either one continuous statement or two separate consecutive statements. The Company adopted this new guidance in 2012, as required, and included a separate Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in this Form 10-K. 

Cash Flows 

The Company generates significant cash from its operations and has substantial credit availability and capacity to fund operating and discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. 
  Cash provided by operations totaled $7.0 billion and exceeded capital expenditures by $3.9 billion in 2012, while cash provided by operations totaled $7.2 billion and exceeded capital expenditures by $4.4 billion in 2011. In 2012, cash provided by operations decreased $184 million or 3% compared with 2011 despite increased operating results, primarily due to higher income tax payments and the negative impact of foreign currency translation on operating results. In 2011, cash provided by operations increased $808 million or 13% compared with 2010 primarily due to higher operating results. 
  Cash used for investing activities totaled $3.2 billion in 2012, an increase of $596 million compared with 2011. The increase primarily reflected higher capital expenditures, an increase in other investing activities related to short-term time deposits, and lower proceeds from sales of restaurant businesses. Cash used for investing activities totaled $2.6 billion in 2011, an increase of $515 million compared with 2010. This reflected higher capital expenditures, partly offset by higher proceeds from sales of restaurant businesses. 
  Cash used for financing activities totaled $3.8 billion in 2012, a decrease of $683 million compared with 2011, primarily due to lower treasury stock purchases and higher net debt issuances, partly offset by higher dividend payments. Cash used for financing activities totaled $4.5 billion in 2011, an increase of $804 million compared with 2010, primarily due to higher treasury stock purchases, higher dividend payments and lower proceeds from stock option exercises, partly offset by higher net debt issuances. 
  The Company s cash and equivalents balance was $2.3 billion at year end 2012 and 2011. In addition to cash and equivalents on hand and cash provided by operations, the Company can meet short-term funding needs through its continued access to commercial paper borrowings and line of credit agreements. 
  RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 
  In 2012, the Company opened 1,404 traditional restaurants and 35 satellite restaurants (small, limited-menu restaurants for which the land and building are generally leased), and closed 269 traditional restaurants and 200 satellite restaurants. In 2011, the Company opened 1,118 traditional restaurants and 32 satellite restaurants, and closed 246 traditional restaurants and 131 satellite restaurants. The majority of restaurant openings and closings occurred in the major markets in both years. The Company closes restaurants for a variety of reasons, such as existing sales and profit performance or loss of real estate tenure. 
  Systemwide restaurants at year end   (1)   

20      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

Approximately 65% of Company-operated restaurants and over 75% of franchised restaurants were located in the major markets at the end of 2012. Over 80% of the restaurants at year-end 2012 were franchised. 
  Capital expenditures increased $319 million or 12% in 2012, and increased $595 million or 28% in 2011, primarily due to higher reinvestment in existing restaurants and higher investment in new restaurants. The higher reinvestment reflects the Company's commitment to grow sales through initiatives such as reimaging in many markets around the world. The increase related to new restaurants reflects our commitment to broaden accessibility to our brand. 
  Capital expenditures invested in major markets, excluding Japan, represented about 70% of the total in 2012, 2011 and 2010. Japan is accounted for under the equity method, and accordingly its capital expenditures are not included in consolidated amounts. 
  Capital expenditures     

(1) 
    Primarily corporate equipment and other office-related expenditures. 
     New restaurant investments in all years were concentrated in markets with acceptable returns or opportunities for long-term growth. Average development costs vary widely by market depending on the types of restaurants built and the real estate and construction costs within each market. These costs, which include land, buildings and equipment, are managed through the use of optimally-sized restaurants, construction and design efficiencies, and leveraging best practices. Although the Company is not responsible for all costs for every restaurant opened, total development costs (consisting of land, buildings and equipment) for new traditional McDonald s restaurants in the U.S. averaged approximately   $2.9   million in 2012. 
  The Company owned approximately 45% of the land and about 70% of the buildings for restaurants in its consolidated markets at year-end 2012 and 2011. 
  SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS 
  For the last three years, the Company returned a total of $16.5 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends. 
  Shares repurchased and dividends     

In September 2009, the Company s Board of Directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase program with no specified expiration date ("2009 Program"). As most of the amount authorized under the 2009 Program was utilized, the Company s Board of Directors terminated the 2009 Program and replaced it with a new share repurchase program, effective August 1, 2012, that authorizes the purchase of up to $10 billion of the Company s outstanding common stock with no specified expiration date. In 2012, approximately 8.4 million shares were repurchased for $  748 million   under the new program.   
  The Company has paid dividends on its common stock for 37 consecutive years and has increased the dividend amount every year. The 2012 full year dividend of $  2.87   per share reflects the quarterly dividend paid for each of the first three quarters of $0.70 per share, with an increase to $0.77 per share paid in the fourth quarter. This 10% increase in the quarterly dividend equates to a $3.08 per share annual dividend and reflects the Company s confidence in the ongoing strength and reliability of its cash flow. As in the past, future dividend amounts will be considered after reviewing profitability expectations and financing needs, and will be declared at the discretion of the Company s Board of Directors. 
                 Financial Position and Capital Resources 

TOTAL ASSETS AND RETURNS 
  Total assets increased $2.4 billion or 7% in 2012. Excluding the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, total assets increased $2.0 billion in 2012. Over 75% of total assets were in major markets at year-end 2012. Net property and equipment increased $1.8 billion in 2012 and represented about 70% of total assets at year end. Excluding the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net property and equipment increased $1.4 billion primarily due to capital expenditures, partly offset by depreciation. 
  Operating income is used to compute return on average assets, while net income is used to calculate return on average common equity. Month-end balances are used to compute both average assets and average common equity. 

In 2012, return on average assets and return on average common equity decreased due to the negative impact of foreign currency translation primarily on operating income and net income. In 2011, return on average assets and return on average common equity benefited from strong global operating results and the positive impact of foreign currency translation. Operating income, as reported, does not include interest income; however, cash balances are included in average assets. The inclusion of cash balances in average assets reduced return on average assets by about two percentage points for all years presented. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      21    

FINANCING AND MARKET RISK 
  The Company generally borrows on a long-term basis and is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations. Debt obligations at December 31, 2012 totaled $13.6 billion, compared with $12.5 billion at December 31, 2011. The net increase in 2012 was primarily due to net issuances of $1.2 billion. 
  Debt highlights   (1)   

(1) 
    All percentages are as of December 31, except for the weighted-average annual interest rate, which is for the year. 
              (2) 
    Based on debt obligations before the effect of fair value hedging adjustments. This effect is excluded as these adjustments have no impact on the obligation at maturity. See Debt financing note to the consolidated financial statements. 
              (3) 
    Includes the effect of interest rate swaps. 
       
  Fitch, Standard   Poor s and Moody s currently rate, with a stable outlook, the Company s commercial paper F1, A-1 and P-1, respectively; and its long-term debt A, A and A2, respectively. 
  Certain of the Company s debt obligations contain cross-acceleration provisions and restrictions on Company and subsidiary mortgages and the long-term debt of certain subsidiaries. There are no provisions in the Company s debt obligations that would accelerate repayment of debt as a result of a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change in the Company s business. Under existing authorization from the Company s Board of Directors, at December 31, 2012, the Company had $5.4 billion of authority remaining to borrow funds, including through (i) public or private offering of debt securities; (ii) direct borrowing from banks or other financial institutions; and (iii) other forms of indebtedness. In addition to debt securities available through a medium-term notes program registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and a Global Medium-Term Notes program, the Company has $1.5 billion available under committed line of credit agreements as well as authority to issue commercial paper in the U.S. and global markets (see Debt Financing note to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K). Debt maturing in 2013 is approximately $690 million of long-term corporate debt. In 2013, the Company expects to issue commercial paper and long-term debt to refinance this maturing debt. As of December 31, 2012, the Company also had $581 million of foreign currency borrowings outstanding primarily under uncommitted line of credit agreements. 
  The Company uses major capital markets, bank financings and derivatives to meet its financing requirements and reduce interest expense. The Company manages its debt portfolio in response to changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates by periodically retiring, redeeming and repurchasing debt, terminating swaps and using derivatives. The Company does not use derivatives with a level of complexity or with a risk higher than the exposures to be hedged and does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. All swaps are over-the-counter instruments. 

In managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the Company uses interest rate swaps and finances in the currencies in which assets are denominated. The Company uses foreign currency debt and derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with certain royalties, intercompany financings and long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. This reduces the impact of fluctuating foreign currencies on cash flows and shareholders  equity. Total foreign currency-denominated debt was $4.9 billion and $5.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, where practical, the Company s restaurants purchase goods and services in local currencies resulting in natural hedges. See Summary of significant accounting policies note to the consolidated financial statements related to financial instruments and hedging activities for additional information regarding the accounting impact and use of derivatives. 
  The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual counterparty and has master agreements that contain netting arrangements. Certain of these agreements also require each party to post collateral if credit ratings fall below, or aggregate exposures exceed, certain contractual limits. At December 31, 2012, neither the Company nor its counterparties were required to post collateral on any derivative position, other than on hedges of certain of the Company s supplemental benefit plan liabilities where our counterparty was required to post collateral on its liability position. 
  The Company s net asset exposure is diversified among a broad basket of currencies. The Company s largest net asset exposures (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) at year end were as follows: 
  Foreign currency net asset exposures 

The Company prepared sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments to determine the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on the Company s results of operations, cash flows and the fair value of its financial instruments. The interest rate analysis assumed a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates on all financial instruments, but did not consider the effects of the reduced level of economic activity that could exist in such an environment. The foreign currency rate analysis assumed that each foreign currency rate would change by 10% in the same direction relative to the U.S. Dollar on all financial instruments; however, the analysis did not include the potential impact on revenues, local currency prices or the effect of fluctuating currencies on the Company s anticipated foreign currency royalties and other payments received in the U.S. Based on the results of these analyses of the Company s financial instruments, neither a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates from 2012 levels nor a 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates from 2012 levels would materially affect the Company s results of operations, cash flows or the fair value of its financial instruments. 
  LIQUIDITY 
  The Company has significant operations outside the United States where we earn over 60% of our operating income. A significant portion of these historical earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign jurisdictions where the Company  

22      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

has made, and will continue to make, substantial investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our international operations. Accordingly, no U.S. federal or state income taxes have been provided on the undistributed foreign earnings. The Company's cash and equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $2.1 billion as of   December 31, 2012  . We do not intend, nor do we foresee a need, to repatriate these funds. 
  Consistent with prior years, we expect existing domestic cash and equivalents, domestic cash flows from operations, annual repatriation of a portion of the current period's foreign earnings, and the issuance of domestic debt to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating, investing, and financing activities. We also continue to expect existing foreign cash and equivalents and foreign cash flows from operations to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating, investing, and financing activities. 
  In the future, should we require more capital to fund activities in the United States than is generated by our domestic operations and is available through the issuance of domestic debt, we could elect to repatriate a greater portion of future periods' earnings from foreign jurisdictions. This could also result in a higher effective tax rate in the future. 
  While the likelihood is remote, to the extent foreign cash is available, the Company could also elect to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions that have previously been considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (net of an adjustment for foreign tax credits) which could result in a use of cash. This could also result in a higher effective tax rate in the period in which such a determination is made to repatriate prior period foreign earnings.  Refer to the Income Taxes note to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further information related to our income taxes and the undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries. 
  CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 
  The Company has long-term contractual obligations primarily in the form of lease obligations (related to both Company-operated and franchised restaurants) and debt obligations. In addition, the Company has long-term revenue and cash flow streams that relate to its franchise arrangements. Cash provided by operations (including cash provided by these franchise arrangements) along with the Company s borrowing capacity and other sources of cash will be used to satisfy the obligations. The following table summarizes the Company s contractual obligations and their aggregate maturities as well as future minimum rent payments due to the Company under existing franchise arrangements as of December 31, 2012. See discussions of cash flows and financial position and capital resources as well as the Notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further details.  

(1) 
    The maturities reflect reclassifications of short-term obligations to long-term obligations of $1.5 billion, as they are supported by a long-term line of credit agreement expiring in November 2016. Debt obligations do not include $42 million of noncash fair value hedging adjustments or $217 million of accrued interest. 

The Company maintains certain supplemental benefit plans that allow participants to (i) make tax-deferred contributions and (ii) receive Company-provided allocations that cannot be made under the qualified benefit plans because of IRS limitations. At December 31, 2012, total liabilities for the supplemental plans were $493 million, and total liabilities for gross unrecognized tax benefits were   $482 million  . 
  There are certain purchase commitments that are not recognized in the consolidated financial statements and are primarily related to construction, inventory, energy, marketing and other service related arrangements that occur in the normal course of business. The amounts related to these commitments are not significant to the Company s financial position. Such commitments are generally shorter term in nature and will be funded from operating cash flows. 
                 Other Matters 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 
  Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates and judgments based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under various assumptions or conditions. 
  The Company reviews its financial reporting and disclosure practices and accounting policies quarterly to ensure that they provide accurate and transparent information relative to the current economic and business environment. The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies, the following involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity: 
             
    Property and equipment 
     Property and equipment are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives based on management s estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue (not to exceed lease term plus options for leased property). The useful lives are estimated based on historical experience with similar assets, taking into account anticipated technological or other changes. The Company periodically reviews these lives relative to physical factors, economic factors and industry trends. If there are changes in the planned use of property and equipment, or if technological changes occur more rapidly than anticipated, the useful lives assigned to these assets may need to be shortened, resulting in the accelerated recognition of depreciation and amortization expense or write-offs in future periods. 
             
    Share-based compensation 
     The Company has a share-based compensation plan which authorizes the granting of various equity-based incentives including stock options and restricted stock units ("RSUs") to employees and nonemployee directors. The expense for these equity-based incentives is based on their fair value at date of grant and generally amortized over their vesting period. 
  The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the date of grant using a closed-form pricing model. The pricing model requires assumptions, which impact the assumed fair value, including the expected life of the stock option, the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility of the Company s stock over the expected  

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      23    

life and the expected dividend yield. The Company uses historical data to determine these assumptions and if these assumptions change significantly for future grants, share-based compensation expense will fluctuate in future years. The fair value of each RSU granted is equal to the market price of the Company s stock at date of grant less the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period. 
             
    Long-lived assets impairment review 
     Long-lived assets (including goodwill) are reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of the Company s long-lived assets, the Company considers changes in economic conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. Estimates of future cash flows are highly subjective judgments based on the Company s experience and knowledge of its operations. These estimates can be significantly impacted by many factors including changes in global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends. A key assumption impacting estimated future cash flows is the estimated change in comparable sales. If the Company s estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges. Based on the annual goodwill impairment test, conducted in the fourth quarter, the Company does not have any reporting units (defined as each individual country) with goodwill currently at risk of impairment. 
             
    Litigation accruals 
     In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims primarily related to competitors, customers, employees, franchisees, government agencies, intellectual property, shareholders and suppliers. The Company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of accrual required, if any, for these contingencies is made after 
  careful analysis of each matter. The required accrual may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. The Company does not believe that any such matter currently being reviewed will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. 
             
    Income taxes 
     The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred assets will not be realized. While the Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax strategies, including the sale of appreciated assets, in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, if these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to adjust its valuation allowance. This could result in a charge to, or an increase in, income in the period such determination is made. 
  The Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. The Company records accruals for the estimated outcomes of these audits, and the accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. In 2012, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") completed its examination of the Company's U.S. federal income tax returns for 2007 and 2008. The Company and the IRS reached an agreement on adjustments that had been previously proposed by the IRS. The agreement did not have a material impact on the Company's cash flows, results of operations or financial position. The Company's 2009 and 2010 U.S. federal income tax returns  

are currently under examination and the completion of the field examination is expected in 2013. 
  Deferred U.S. income taxes have not been recorded for temporary differences totaling   $14.8 billion   related to investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and corporate affiliates. The temporary differences consist primarily of undistributed earnings that are considered permanently invested in operations outside the U.S. If management's intentions change in the future, deferred taxes may need to be provided. 
  EFFECTS OF CHANGING PRICES INFLATION 
  The Company has demonstrated an ability to manage inflationary cost increases effectively. This ability is because of rapid inventory turnover, the ability to adjust menu prices, cost controls and substantial property holdings, many of which are at fixed costs and partly financed by debt made less expensive by inflation. 
  RECONCILIATION OF RETURNS ON INCREMENTAL INVESTED CAPITAL 
  ROIIC is a measure reviewed by management over one-year and three-year time periods to evaluate the overall profitability of the business units, the effectiveness of capital deployed and the future allocation of capital. This measure is calculated using operating income and constant foreign exchange rates to exclude the impact of foreign currency translation. The numerator is the Company s incremental operating income plus depreciation and amortization from the base period. 
  The denominator is the weighted-average cash used for investing activities during the applicable one-or three-year period. The weighted-average cash used for investing activities is based on a weighting applied on a quarterly basis. These weightings are used to reflect the estimated contribution of each quarter s investing activities to incremental operating income. For example, fourth quarter   2012   investing activities are weighted less because the assets purchased have only recently been deployed and would have generated little incremental operating income (12.5% of fourth quarter   2012   investing activities are included in the one-year and three-year calculations). In contrast, fourth quarter   2011   is heavily weighted because the assets purchased were deployed more than 12 months ago, and therefore have a full-year impact on   2012   operating income, with little or no impact to the base period (87.5% and 100.0% of fourth quarter   2011   investing activities are included in the one-year and three-year calculations, respectively). Management believes that weighting cash used for investing activities provides a more accurate reflection of the relationship between its investments and returns than a simple average. 
  The reconciliations to the most comparable measurements, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., for the numerator and denominator of the one-year and three-year ROIIC are as follows: 

24      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

One-year ROIIC calculation (dollars in millions): 

(1) 
    Represents the effect of foreign currency translation by translating results at an average exchange rate for the periods measured. 
              (2) 
    Represents one-year weighted-average cash used for investing activities, determined by applying the weightings below to the cash used for investing activities for each quarter in the two-year period ended   December 31, 2012  . 

Three-year ROIIC calculation (dollars in millions): 

(3) 
    Represents the effect of foreign currency translation by translating results at an average exchange rate for the periods measured. 
              (4) 
    Represents three-year weighted-average adjusted cash used for investing activities, determined by applying the weightings below to the adjusted cash used for investing activities for each quarter in the four-year period ended   December 31, 2012  . 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      25    

RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 
  This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for   2013  . These statements use such words as  may,   will,   expect,   believe  and  plan.  They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. We have identified the principal risks and uncertainties that affect our performance elsewhere in this report, and investors are urged to consider these risks and uncertainties when evaluating our historical and expected performance. 
                 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in Part II, Item 7,   page 22   of the Form 10-K. 
                   ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Index to consolidated financial statements 
    Page reference 

Consolidated statement of income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 
    27    
      Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 
    28 
      Consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2012 and 2011 
    29    
      Consolidated statement of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 
    30    
      Consolidated statement of shareholders  equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 
    31    
      Notes to consolidated financial statements 
    32 
      Quarterly results (unaudited) 
    43    
      Management s assessment of internal control over financial reporting 
    44 
      Report of independent registered public accounting firm 
    45    
      Report of independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting 
    46    

26      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

Consolidated Statement of Income    

See Notes to consolidated financial statements. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      27    

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 

See Notes to consolidated financial statements. 

28      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

Consolidated Balance Sheet 

See Notes to consolidated financial statements. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      29    

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 

See Notes to consolidated financial statements. 

30      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity 

See Notes to consolidated financial statements. 
      
  McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      31    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  NATURE OF BUSINESS 
  The Company franchises and operates McDonald s restaurants in the global restaurant industry. All restaurants are operated either by the Company or by franchisees, including conventional franchisees under franchise arrangements, and foreign affiliates and developmental licensees under license agreements. 
  The following table presents restaurant information by ownership type: 

The results of operations of restaurant businesses purchased and sold in transactions with franchisees were not material either individually or in the aggregate to the consolidated financial statements for periods prior to purchase and sale. 
  CONSOLIDATION 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Investments in affiliates owned 50% or less (primarily McDonald s Japan) are accounted for by the equity method. 
  On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its business relationships such as those with franchisees, joint venture partners, developmental licensees, suppliers, and advertising cooperatives to identify potential variable interest entities. Generally, these businesses qualify for a scope exception under the variable interest entity consolidation guidance. The Company has concluded that consolidation of any such entity is not appropriate for the periods presented. 
  ESTIMATES IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
  REVENUE RECOGNITION 
  The Company s revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from franchised restaurants operated by conventional franchisees, developmental licensees and foreign affiliates. 
  Sales by Company-operated restaurants are recognized on a cash basis. The Company presents sales net of sales tax and other sales-related taxes. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from restaurants licensed to foreign affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and may include initial fees. Continuing rent and royalties are recognized in the period earned. Initial fees are recognized upon opening of a restaurant or granting of a new franchise term, which is when the Company has performed substantially all initial services required by the franchise arrangement. 

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION 
  Generally, the functional currency of operations outside the U.S. is the respective local currency. 
  ADVERTISING COSTS 
  Advertising costs included in operating expenses of Company-operated restaurants primarily consist of contributions to advertising cooperatives and were (in millions):   2012     $787.5  ;   2011     $768.6  ;   2010     $687.0  . Production costs for radio and television advertising are expensed when the commercials are initially aired. These production costs, primarily in the U.S., as well as other marketing-related expenses included in Selling, general   administrative expenses were (in millions):   2012     $113.5  ;   2011     $74.4  ;   2010     $94.5  . Costs related to the Olympics sponsorship are included in these expenses for 2012 and 2010. In addition, significant advertising costs are incurred by franchisees through contributions to advertising cooperatives in individual markets. 
  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
  Share-based compensation includes the portion vesting of all share-based awards granted based on the grant date fair value. 
  Share-based compensation expense and the effect on diluted earnings per common share were as follows: 

Compensation expense related to share-based awards is generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period in Selling, general   administrative expenses. As of   December 31, 2012  , there was   $94.6 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   2.1   years. 
  The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the date of grant using a closed-form pricing model. The following table presents the weighted-average assumptions used in the option pricing model for the   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   stock option grants. The expected life of the options represents the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical trends. Expected stock price volatility is generally based on the historical volatility of the Company s stock for a period approximating the expected life. The expected dividend yield is based on the Company s most recent annual dividend rate. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant with a term equal to the expected life. 
    
  Weighted-average assumptions 

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
  Property and equipment are stated at cost, with depreciation and amortization provided using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: buildings up to   40   years; leasehold improvements   the lesser of useful lives of assets or lease terms  , which generally include option periods; and equipment   three   to   12   years. 

32      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

GOODWILL 
  Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets of acquired restaurant businesses. The Company's goodwill primarily results from purchases of McDonald's restaurants from franchisees and ownership increases in subsidiaries or affiliates, and it is generally assigned to the reporting unit expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. If a Company-operated restaurant is sold within   24   months of acquisition, the goodwill associated with the acquisition is written off in its entirety. If a restaurant is sold beyond 24 months from the acquisition, the amount of goodwill written off is based on the relative fair value of the business sold compared to the reporting unit (defined as each individual country). 

The Company conducts goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of each year or whenever an indicator of impairment exists. If an indicator of impairment exists (e.g., estimated earnings multiple value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value), the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit, generally based on discounted future cash flows, with its carrying amount including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is measured as the difference between the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill and the carrying amount of goodwill. Historically, goodwill impairment has not significantly impacted the consolidated financial statements. 
  The following table presents the 2012 activity in goodwill by segment: 

LONG-LIVED ASSETS 
  Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For purposes of annually reviewing McDonald s restaurant assets for potential impairment, assets are initially grouped together at a television market level in the U.S. and at a country level for each of the international markets. The Company manages its restaurants as a group or portfolio with significant common costs and promotional activities; as such, an individual restaurant s cash flows are not generally independent of the cash flows of others in a market. If an indicator of impairment (e.g., negative operating cash flows for the most recent trailing   24  -month period) exists for any grouping of assets, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by each individual restaurant within the asset grouping is compared to its carrying value. If an individual restaurant is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured by the excess of the carrying amount of the restaurant over its fair value as determined by an estimate of discounted future cash flows. 
  Losses on assets held for disposal are recognized when management and the Board of Directors, as required, have approved and committed to a plan to dispose of the assets, the assets are available for disposal, the disposal is probable of occurring within 12 months, and the net sales proceeds are expected to be less than its net book value, among other factors. Generally, such losses relate to restaurants that have closed and ceased operations as well as other assets that meet the criteria to be considered  available for sale . 

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
  The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, and certain non-financial assets and liabilities on a nonrecurring basis. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Fair value disclosures are reflected in a three-level hierarchy, maximizing the use of observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. 
  The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability on the measurement date. The three levels are defined as follows: 
             
    Level 1   inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for an identical asset or liability in an active market. 
                
    Level 2   inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for a similar asset or liability in an active market or model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs are observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. 
                
    Level 3   inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement of the asset or liability. 
     Certain of the Company s derivatives are valued using various pricing models or discounted cash flow analyses that incorporate observable market parameters, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates, classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy. Derivative valuations incorporate credit risk adjustments that are necessary to reflect the probability of default by the counterparty or the Company.    

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      33    

Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value 
     The following tables present financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by the valuation hierarchy as defined in the fair value guidance:    

Non-Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
     Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis, but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (e.g., when there is evidence of impairment). For the year ended   December 31, 2012  ,   no   material fair value adjustments or fair value measurements were required for non-financial assets or liabilities. 
             
    Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value 
     At   December 31, 2012  , the fair value of the Company s debt obligations was estimated at   $15.6 billion  , compared to a carrying amount of   $13.6 billion  . The fair value was based on quoted market prices, Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy. The carrying amount for both cash equivalents and notes receivable approximate fair value. 

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
  The Company is exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. The Company uses foreign currency denominated debt and derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of these changes. The Company does not use derivatives with a level of complexity or with a risk higher than the exposures to be hedged and does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. 
  The Company documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions, as well as all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items. The Company s derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments consist mainly of interest rate swaps, foreign currency forwards and foreign currency options, cross-currency swaps, and commodity forwards, further explained in the "Fair Value," "Cash Flow" and "Net Investment" hedge sections. 
  The Company also enters into certain derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments. The Company has entered into equity derivative contracts to hedge market-driven changes in certain of its supplemental benefit plan liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in Selling, general   administrative expenses together with the changes in the supplemental benefit plan liabilities. In addition, the Company uses foreign currency forwards to mitigate the change in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. Since these derivatives are not designated for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized immediately in nonoperating (income) expense together with the currency gain or loss from the hedged balance sheet position. A portion of the Company s foreign currency options (more fully described in the "Cash Flow Hedges" section) are undesignated as hedging instruments as the underlying foreign currency royalties are earned. 
  All derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments are classified as fair value, cash flow or net investment hedges. All derivatives (including those not designated for hedge accounting) are recognized on the Consolidated balance sheet at fair value and classified based on the instruments  maturity dates. Changes in the fair value measurements of the derivative instruments are reflected as adjustments to other comprehensive income ("OCI") and/or current earnings. 

34      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

The following table presents the fair values of derivative instruments included on the Consolidated balance sheet as of   December 31, 2012   and   2011  : 

The following table presents the pretax amounts affecting income and OCI for the years ended   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively: 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      35    

Fair Value Hedges 
     The Company enters into fair value hedges to reduce the exposure to changes in the fair values of certain liabilities. The fair value hedges the Company enters into consist of interest rate swaps which convert a portion of its fixed-rate debt into floating-rate debt. All of the Company s interest rate swaps meet the shortcut method requirements. Accordingly, changes in the fair values of the interest rate swaps are exactly offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying debt.   No   ineffectiveness has been recorded to net income related to interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges for the year ended   December 31, 2012  . A total of   $1.8 billion   of the Company s outstanding fixed-rate debt was effectively converted to floating-rate debt resulting from the use of interest rate swaps. 
             
    Cash Flow Hedges 
     The Company enters into cash flow hedges to reduce the exposure to variability in certain expected future cash flows. The types of cash flow hedges the Company enters into include interest rate swaps, foreign currency forwards, foreign currency options, cross currency swaps, and commodity forwards. 
  The Company periodically uses interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of floating-rate debt, including forecasted debt issuances, into fixed-rate debt and the agreements are intended to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on future interest expense.  
  To protect against the reduction in value of forecasted foreign currency cash flows (such as royalties denominated in foreign currencies), the Company uses foreign currency forwards and foreign currency options to hedge a portion of anticipated exposures. 
  When the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the decline in value of future foreign denominated royalties is offset by gains in the fair value of the foreign currency forwards and/or foreign currency options. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens, the increase in the value of future foreign denominated royalties is offset by losses in the fair value of the foreign currency forwards and/or foreign currency options. 
  Although the fair value changes in the foreign currency options may fluctuate over the period of the contract, the Company s total loss on a foreign currency option is limited to the upfront premium paid for the contract; however, the potential gains on a foreign currency option are unlimited. In some situations, the Company uses foreign currency collars, which limit the potential gains and lower the upfront premium paid, to protect against currency movements. 
  The hedges cover the next   19   months for certain exposures and are denominated in various currencies. As of   December 31, 2012  , the Company had derivatives outstanding with an equivalent notional amount of   $626.9 million   that were used to hedge a portion of forecasted foreign currency denominated royalties. 
  The Company excludes the time value of foreign currency options from its effectiveness assessment on its cash flow hedges. As a result, changes in the fair value of the derivatives due to this component, as well as the ineffectiveness of the hedges, are recognized in earnings currently. The effective portion of the gains or losses on the derivatives is reported in the cash flow hedging component of OCI in shareholders  equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged transaction affects earnings. 
  The Company uses cross-currency swaps to hedge the risk of cash flows associated with certain foreign-currency denominated debt, including forecasted interest payments, and has elected cash flow hedge accounting. The hedges cover periods up to   59   months and have an equivalent notional amount of   $245.8 million  . 
  The Company manages its exposure to the variability of cash flows for energy-related transactions in certain markets by  

entering into commodity forwards and has elected cash flow hedge accounting as appropriate. The hedges cover periods up to   22   years and have an equivalent notional amount of   $493.8 million  . 
  The Company recorded after tax adjustments to the cash flow hedging component of accumulated OCI in shareholders  equity. The Company recorded a net   increase   of   $30.6 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2012   and a net   decrease   of   $10.4 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2011  . Based on interest rates and foreign exchange rates at   December 31, 2012  , the   $35.2 million   in cumulative cash flow hedging   gains  , after tax, at   December 31, 2012  , is not expected to have a significant effect on earnings over the next 12 months. 
             
    Net Investment Hedges 
     The Company primarily uses foreign currency denominated debt (third party and intercompany) to hedge its investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. Realized and unrealized translation adjustments from these hedges are included in shareholders  equity in the foreign currency translation component of OCI and offset translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates, which also are recorded in OCI. As of   December 31, 2012  ,   $7.7 billion   of intercompany foreign currency denominated debt,   $4.0 billion   of the Company s third party foreign currency denominated debt and   $528.6 million   of derivatives were designated to hedge investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. 
             
    Credit Risk 
     The Company is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its hedging instruments. The counterparties to these agreements consist of a diverse group of financial institutions and market participants. The Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings of its counterparties and adjusts positions as appropriate. The Company did not have significant exposure to any individual counterparty at   December 31, 2012   and has master agreements that contain netting arrangements. For financial reporting purposes, the Company presents gross derivative balances in the financial statements and supplementary data, even for counterparties subject to netting arrangements. Some of these agreements also require each party to post collateral if credit ratings fall below, or aggregate exposures exceed, certain contractual limits. At   December 31, 2012  , neither the Company nor its counterparties were required to post collateral on any derivative position, other than on hedges of certain of the Company s supplemental benefit plan liabilities where its counterparties were required to post collateral on their liability positions. 
  INCOME TAX UNCERTAINTIES 
  The Company, like other multi-national companies, is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and tax assessments may arise several years after tax returns have been filed. Accordingly, tax liabilities are recorded when, in management s judgment, a tax position does not meet the more likely than not threshold for recognition. For tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold, a tax liability may still be recorded depending on management s assessment of how the tax position will ultimately be settled. 
  The Company records interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes. 

36      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

PER COMMON SHARE INFORMATION 
  Diluted earnings per common share is calculated using net income divided by diluted weighted-average shares. Diluted weighted-average shares include weighted-average shares outstanding plus the dilutive effect of share-based compensation calculated using the treasury stock method, of (in millions of shares):   2012     10.1  ;   2011     12.8  ;   2010     14.3  . Stock options that were not included in diluted weighted-average shares because they would have been antidilutive were (in millions of shares):   2012     4.7  ;   2011     0.0  ;   2010     0.0  . 
  The Company has elected to exclude the pro forma deferred tax asset associated with share-based compensation in earnings per share. 
    STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
  The Company considers short-term, highly liquid investments with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents. 
    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
  The Company evaluated subsequent events through the date the financial statements were issued and filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). There were no subsequent events that required recognition or disclosure. 
                 Comprehensive Income 

In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued an update to Topic 220   Comprehensive Income of the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). The update is intended to increase the prominence of other comprehensive income in the financial statements. The guidance requires that the Company presents components of comprehensive income in either one continuous statement or two separate consecutive statements. The Company adopted this new guidance in 2012, as required, and included a separate Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. 
                 Property and Equipment 

Net property and equipment consisted of: 

Depreciation and amortization expense was (in millions):   2012     $1,402.2  ;   2011     $1,329.6  ;   2010     $1,200.4  . 
                 Impairment and Other Charges (Credits), Net 

In 2010, the Company recorded expense of   $29 million   primarily related to its share of restaurant closing costs in McDonald s Japan in conjunction with the strategic review of the market s restaurant portfolio, partly offset by income related to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. 
                 Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net 

Gains on sales of restaurant businesses 
     Gains on sales of restaurant businesses include gains from sales of Company-operated restaurants. The Company s purchases and sales of businesses with its franchisees are aimed at achieving an optimal ownership mix in each market. Resulting gains or losses are recorded in operating income because the transactions are a recurring part of our business. 
             
    Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 
     Unconsolidated affiliates and partnerships are businesses in which the Company actively participates but does not control. The Company records equity in earnings from these entities representing McDonald s share of results. For foreign affiliated markets primarily Japan results are reported after interest expense and income taxes. McDonald s share of results for partnerships in certain consolidated markets such as the U.S. are reported before income taxes. These partnership restaurants are operated under conventional franchise arrangements and, therefore, are classified as conventional franchised restaurants. 
             
    Asset dispositions and other expense 
     Asset dispositions and other expense consists of gains or losses on excess property and other asset dispositions, provisions for restaurant closings and uncollectible receivables, asset write-offs due to restaurant reinvestment, and other miscellaneous income and expenses. 
                 Contingencies 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims primarily related to competitors, customers, employees, franchisees, government agencies, intellectual property, shareholders and suppliers. The Company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of accrual required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each matter. The required accrual may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      37    

In connection with the sale in 2007 of its businesses in   18   countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to a developmental licensee organization, the Company agreed to indemnify the buyers for certain tax and other claims, certain of which are reflected on McDonald s Consolidated balance sheet   (  2012   and   2011  : other long-term liabilities   $42.0 million   and   $49.4 million  , respectively;   2012   and   2011  : accrued payroll and other liabilities   $0.0 million   and   $21.2 million  , respectively). 
  The Company believes any other matters currently being reviewed will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. 
                 Franchise Arrangements 

Conventional franchise arrangements generally include a lease and a license and provide for payment of initial fees, as well as continuing rent and royalties to the Company based upon a percent of sales with minimum rent payments that parallel the Company s underlying leases and escalations (on properties that are leased). Under this arrangement, franchisees are granted the right to operate a restaurant using the McDonald s System and, in most cases, the use of a restaurant facility, generally for a period of   20 years  . These franchisees pay related occupancy costs including property taxes, insurance and maintenance. Affiliates and developmental licensees operating under license agreements pay a royalty to the Company based upon a percent of sales, and may pay initial fees. 
  Revenues from franchised restaurants consisted of: 

Future minimum rent payments due to the Company under existing franchise arrangements are: 

At   December 31, 2012  , net property and equipment under franchise arrangements totaled   $14.6 billion   (including land of   $4.2 billion  ) after deducting accumulated depreciation and amortization of   $7.6 billion  . 
                 Leasing Arrangements 

At   December 31, 2012  , the Company was the lessee at   14,429   restaurant locations through ground leases (the Company leases the land and the Company or franchisee owns the building) and through improved leases (the Company leases land and buildings). Lease terms for most restaurants, where market conditions allow, are generally for   20 years   and, in many cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options, with certain leases providing purchase options. Escalation terms vary by geographic segment with examples including fixed-rent escalations, escalations based on an inflation index, and fair-value market adjustments. The timing of these escalations generally  

ranges from annually to every   five   years. For most locations, the Company is obligated for the related occupancy costs including property taxes, insurance and maintenance; however, for franchised sites, the Company requires the franchisees to pay these costs. In addition, the Company is the lessee under noncancelable leases covering certain offices and vehicles. 
  The following table provides detail of rent expense: 

Rent expense included percent rents in excess of minimum rents (in millions) as follows Company-operated restaurants:   2012     $169.6  ;   2011     $165.2  ;   2010     $142.5  . Franchised restaurants:   2012     $178.7  ;   2011     $173.4  ;   2010     $167.3  . 
  Future minimum payments required under existing operating leases with initial terms of one year or more are: 

Income Taxes 

Income before provision for income taxes, classified by source of income, was as follows: 

The provision for income taxes, classified by the timing and location of payment, was as follows:   

38      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

Net deferred tax liabilities consisted of: 

The statutory U.S. federal income tax rate reconciles to the effective income tax rates as follows: 

As of   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Company s gross unrecognized tax benefits totaled   $482.4 million   and   $565.0 million  , respectively. After considering the deferred tax accounting impact, it is expected that about   $360 million   of the total as of   December 31, 2012   would favorably affect the effective tax rate if resolved in the Company s favor. 
  The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits: 

(1) 
    Of this amount,   $481.7 million   and   $564.3 million   are included in long-term liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheet for   2012   and   2011  , respectively. The remainder is included in deferred income taxes on the Consolidated balance sheet. 

In December 2012, the Company reached a final settlement with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") Appeals Division regarding its U.S. federal income tax returns for 2007 and 2008. The Company agreed to a settlement of about   $80 million  , primarily related to proposed foreign tax credit adjustments of about   $400 million  . The liabilities previously recorded and determined in accordance with ASC 740 - Income Taxes related to this matter were adequate. Additionally, no cash payment was made related to this settlement as the Company had previously made a tax deposit with the IRS. The agreement did not have a material impact on the Company's cash flows, results of operations or financial position. 
  The Company's 2009 and 2010 U.S. federal income tax returns are currently under examination. Additionally, the Company is currently under audit in multiple state and foreign tax jurisdictions where it is reasonably possible that the audits could be completed within 12 months. Due to the possible completion of these audits and the expiration of the statute of limitations in multiple tax jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could decrease within the next 12 months by   $150 million   to   $160 million  , of which   $10 million   to   $30 million   could favorably affect the effective tax rate.  
  In addition, the Company is currently under audit in multiple tax jurisdictions where completion of the tax audits is not expected within 12 months. However, it is reasonably possible that, as a result of audit progression within the next 12 months, there may be new information that causes the Company to reassess the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded. While the Company cannot estimate the impact that new information may have on our unrecognized tax benefit balance, we believe that the liabilities recorded are appropriate and adequate as determined under ASC 740. 
  The Company is generally no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2006.    
  The Company had   $37.7 million   and   $39.6 million   accrued for interest and penalties at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively. The Company recognized interest and penalties related to tax matters of   $11.2 million   in   2012  ,   $4.8 million   in   2011  , and   $29.0 million   in   2010  , which are included in the provision for income taxes. 
  Deferred U.S. income taxes have not been recorded for temporary differences related to investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures.   These temporary differences were approximately   $14.8 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and consisted primarily of undistributed earnings considered permanently invested in operations outside the U.S.   Determination of the deferred income tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable because such liability, if any, is dependent on circumstances existing if and when remittance occurs.    

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      39    

Segment and Geographic Information 

The Company operates in the global restaurant industry and manages its business as distinct geographic segments. All intercompany revenues and expenses are eliminated in computing revenues and operating income. Corporate general and administrative expenses are included in Other Countries   Corporate and consist of home office support costs in areas such as facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, legal, marketing, restaurant operations, supply chain and training. Corporate assets include corporate cash and equivalents, asset portions of financial instruments and home office facilities. 

(1) 
    Includes expense due to Impairment and other charges (credits), net of   $39.3 million   related to the Company s share of restaurant closings in McDonald s Japan (a 50%-owned affiliate). 
              (2) 
    Includes income due to Impairment and other charges (credits), net of   $21.0 million   related to the resolution of certain liabilities retained in connection with the 2007 Latin America developmental license transaction. 

Total long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, were (in millions) Consolidated:   2012     $29,644.5  ;   2011      $27,587.6  ;   2010     $26,700.9  ; U.S. based:   2012     $11,308.7  ;   2011     $10,724.9  ;   2010     $10,430.2  . 
                 Debt Financing 

LINE OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS 
  At   December 31, 2012  , the Company had a   $1.5 billion   line of credit agreement expiring in   November 2016   with fees of   0.065%   per annum on the total commitment, which remained unused.   Fees and interest rates on this line are based on the Company s long-term credit rating assigned by Moody s and Standard   Poor s  . In addition, the Company, including certain subsidiaries outside the U.S., had unused lines of credit totaling   $988.9 million   at   December 31, 2012  ; these lines of credit were primarily uncommitted, short-term and   denominated in various currencies   at   local market rates of interest  . 
  The weighted-average interest rate of short-term borrowings was   4.1%   at   December 31, 2012   (based on   $581.3 million   of foreign currency bank line borrowings and   $200.0 million   of commercial paper) and   4.6%   at   December 31, 2011   (based on   $640.3 million   of foreign currency bank line borrowings and   $250.0 million   of commercial paper). 
  DEBT OBLIGATIONS 
  The Company has incurred debt obligations principally through public and private offerings and bank loans. There are no provisions in the Company s debt obligations that would accelerate repayment of debt as a result of a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change in the Company s business. Certain of the Company s debt obligations contain cross-acceleration provisions, and restrictions on Company and subsidiary mortgages and the long-term debt of certain subsidiaries. Under certain agreements, the Company has the option to retire debt prior to maturity, either at par or at a premium over par. The Company has no current plans to retire a significant amount of its debt prior to maturity. 
  ESOP LOANS 
  Borrowings related to the leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") at   December 31, 2012  , which include   $31.5 million   of loans from the Company to the ESOP, are reflected as debt with a corresponding reduction of shareholders  equity (additional paid-in capital included a balance of   $27.2 million   and   $34.4 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively).   The ESOP is repaying the loans and interest through 2018 using Company contributions and dividends from its McDonald s common stock holdings  . As the principal amount of the borrowings is repaid, the debt and the unearned ESOP compensation (additional paid-in capital) are reduced. 

40      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

The following table summarizes the Company s debt obligations. (Interest rates and debt amounts reflected in the table include the effects of interest rate swaps.) 

(1) 
    Weighted-average effective rate, computed on a semi-annual basis. 
              (2) 
    Primarily consists of Chinese Renminbi, Swiss Francs, and Korean Won. 
               (4) 
    The carrying value of underlying items in fair value hedges, in this case debt obligations, are adjusted for fair value changes to the extent they are attributable to the risk designated as being hedged. The related hedging instrument is also recorded at fair value in prepaid expenses and other current assets, miscellaneous other assets or other long-term liabilities.  
              (5) 
    Includes notes payable, current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt included on the Consolidated balance sheet. The increase in debt obligations from   December 31, 2011   to   December 31, 2012   was primarily due to net issuances of   $1.2 billion  . 
       
                   Employee Benefit Plans 

The Company s Profit Sharing and Savings Plan for U.S.-based employees includes a 401(k) feature, a regular employee match feature, and a discretionary employer profit sharing match. The 401(k) feature allows participants to make pretax contributions that are matched each pay period from shares released under the ESOP. The Profit Sharing and Savings Plan also provides for a discretionary employer profit sharing match after the end of the year for those participants eligible to share in the match. 
  All current account balances and future contributions and related earnings can be invested in several investment alternatives as well as McDonald s common stock in accordance with each participant s elections. Participants  contributions to the 401(k) feature and the discretionary employer matching contribution feature are limited to   20%   investment in McDonald s common stock. Participants may choose to make separate investment choices for current account balances and for future contributions. 
  The Company also maintains certain supplemental benefit plans that allow participants to (i) make tax-deferred contributions and (ii) receive Company-provided allocations that cannot be made under the Profit Sharing and Savings Plan   because of Internal Revenue Service limitations. The investment alternatives and returns are based on certain market-rate investment  
  alternatives under the Profit Sharing and Savings Plan. Total  

liabilities were   $493.5 million   at   December 31, 2012  , and   $482.5 million   at   December 31, 2011  , and were primarily included in other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheet. 
  The Company has entered into derivative contracts to hedge market-driven changes in certain of the liabilities.   At   December 31, 2012  , derivatives with a fair value of   $132.3 million   indexed to the Company's stock and an investment totaling   $123.8 million   indexed to certain market indices were included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Consolidated balance sheet.   All changes in liabilities for these nonqualified plans and in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded in Selling, general   administrative expenses. Changes in fair value of the derivatives indexed to the Company s stock are recorded in the income statement because the contracts provide the counterparty with a choice to settle in cash or shares.    
  Total U.S. costs for the Profit Sharing and Savings Plan, including nonqualified benefits and related hedging activities, were (in millions):   2012     $27.9  ;   2011     $41.3  ;   2010     $51.4  . Certain subsidiaries outside the U.S. also offer profit sharing, stock purchase or other similar benefit plans. Total plan costs outside the U.S. were (in millions):   2012     $62.5  ;   2011     $58.3  ;   2010     $57.6  . 
  The total combined liabilities for international retirement plans were   $77.7 million   and   $125.4 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , respectively. 
  Other postretirement benefits and post-employment benefits were immaterial. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      41    

Share-based Compensation 

The Company maintains a share-based compensation plan which authorizes the granting of various equity-based incentives including stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) to employees and nonemployee directors.   The number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the plans was   79.3 million   at   December 31, 2012  , including   50.1 million   available for future grants. 
  STOCK OPTIONS 
  Stock options to purchase common stock are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the Company s stock on the date of grant. Substantially all of the options become exercisable in four equal installments, beginning a year from the date of the grant, and generally expire   10 years   from the grant date. Options granted between March 21, 2000 and December 31, 2000 (approximately   1.0 million   options outstanding at   December 31, 2012  ) expire   13 years   from the date of grant. 
  Intrinsic value for stock options is defined as the difference between the current market value of the Company s stock and the exercise price. During   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was   $469.8 million  ,   $416.5 million   and   $500.8 million  , respectively. Cash received from stock options exercised during   2012   was   $328.6 million   and the actual tax benefit realized for tax deductions from stock options exercised totaled   $140.2 million  . The Company uses treasury shares purchased under the Company s share repurchase program to satisfy share-based exercises. 
  A summary of the status of the Company s stock option grants as of   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , and changes during the years then ended, is presented in the following table: 

RSUs 
  RSUs generally vest   100%   on the third anniversary of the grant and are payable in either shares of McDonald s common stock or cash, at the Company s discretion. Certain executives have been awarded RSUs that vest based on Company performance. The fair value of each RSU granted is equal to the market price of the Company s stock at date of grant less the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period. 
  A summary of the Company s RSU activity during the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010   is presented in the following table: 

The Company realized tax deductions of   $10.6 million   from RSUs vested during   2012  . The total fair value of RSUs vested during   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   was   $76.4 million  ,   $55.5 million   and   $66.8 million  , respectively. 
      
  42      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

(1) 
    Includes a   $0.70   per share dividend declared and paid in third quarter and a   $0.77   per share dividend declared in third quarter and paid in fourth quarter. 
              (2) 
    Includes a   $0.61   per share dividend declared and paid in third quarter and a   $0.70   per share dividend declared in third quarter and paid in fourth quarter. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      43    

Management s Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The financial statements were prepared by management, which is responsible for their integrity and objectivity and for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. 
  The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 
           I. 
    pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 
              II. 
    provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 
              III. 
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
     There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to financial statement preparation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal controls may vary over time. 
  Management assessed the design and effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012  . In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in Internal Control   Integrated Framework. 
  Based on management s assessment using those criteria, as of   December 31, 2012  , management believes that the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective. 
  Ernst   Young, LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the financial statements of the Company for the fiscal years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010   and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012  . Their reports are presented on the following pages. The independent registered public accountants and internal auditors advise management of the results of their audits, and make recommendations to improve the system of internal controls. Management evaluates the audit recommendations and takes appropriate action. 
  McDONALD S CORPORATION 
  February 25, 2013    

44      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of McDonald s Corporation 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of McDonald s Corporation as of   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2012  . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of McDonald s Corporation at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2012  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), McDonald s Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012  , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated   February 25, 2013  , expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  ERNST   YOUNG LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  February 25, 2013    
      
  McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      45    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of McDonald s Corporation 
  We have audited McDonald s Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012  , based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). McDonald s Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying report on Management s Assessment of Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, McDonald s Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012  , based on the COSO criteria. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of McDonald s Corporation as of   December 31, 2012   and   2011   and for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2012  , and our report dated   February 25, 2013  , expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  ERNST   YOUNG LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  February 25, 2013    

46      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

None. 
                 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 

DISCLOSURE CONTROLS 
  An evaluation was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of   December 31, 2012  . Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. 
  INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
  The Company s management, including the CEO and CFO, confirm that there was no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended   December 31, 2012   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
  MANAGEMENT S REPORT 
  Management s Report and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting are set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

ITEM 9B. Other Information 

None. 
                 PART III 

ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

Information regarding directors and the Company s Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and its Standards of Business Conduct is incorporated herein by reference from the Company s definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than 120 days after   December 31, 2012  . We will post any amendments to or any waivers for directors and executive officers from provisions of the Codes on the Company s website at www.governance.mcdonalds.com. 
  Information regarding all of the Company s executive officers is included in Part I,   page 7   of this Form 10-K. 
                 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company s definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than 120 days after   December 31, 2012  . 

ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 

The following table summarizes information about the Company s equity compensation plans as of   December 31, 2012  . All outstanding awards relate to the Company s common stock. Shares issued under all of the following plans may be from the Company s treasury, newly issued or both. 
  Equity compensation plan information   

Additional matters incorporated herein by reference from the Company s definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than 120 days after   December 31, 2012  . 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      47    

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company s definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than 120 days after   December 31, 2012  . 

ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company s definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than 120 days after   December 31, 2012  .  

PART IV 

ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

a. 
    (1) 
    All financial statements 

Consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report are listed under Part II, Item 8, pages 27 through 42 of this Form 10-K. 

(2) 
    Financial statement schedules 

No schedules are required because either the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto. 

b. 
      
    Exhibits 

The exhibits listed in the accompanying index are filed as part of this report. 

48      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

(d) 
    1975 Stock Ownership Option Plan, as amended and restated July 30, 2001, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended September 30, 2001.** 

(i) 
    First Amendment to McDonald s Corporation 1975 Stock Ownership Option Plan, as amended and restated, effective as of February 14, 2007, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.** 

(e) 
    1992 Stock Ownership Incentive Plan, as amended and restated January 1, 2001, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended March 31, 2001.** 

(i) 
    First Amendment to McDonald s Corporation 1992 Stock Ownership Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, effective as of February 14, 2007, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.** 

(f) 
    McDonald s Corporation Executive Retention Replacement Plan, effective as of December 31, 2007 (as amended and restated on December 31, 2008), incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2008.** 

(g) 
    McDonald s Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, effective July 1, 2008, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.** 

(i) 
    First amendment to the McDonald s Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2008.** 

(ii) 
    Second Amendment to the McDonald s Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan as amended, effective February 9, 2011, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2010.** 

(h) 
    McDonald's Corporation 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, effective June 1, 2012, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.** 

(i) 
    Form of McDonald's Corporation Tier I Change of Control Employment Agreement, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.**  

(j) 
    McDonald s Corporation 2009 Cash Incentive Plan, effective as of May 27, 2009, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.** 

(k) 
    Form of Executive Stock Option Grant Agreement in connection with the Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2011.** 

(l) 
    Form of Executive Performance-based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement in connection with the Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2011.** 

(m) 
    McDonald s Corporation Severance Plan, effective January 1, 2008, incorporated by reference from Form 8-K, filed December 4, 2007.** 

(i) 
    First Amendment of McDonald s Corporation Severance Plan, effective as of October 1, 2008, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.** 

(ii) 
    Second Amendment of McDonald s Corporation Severance Plan, effective as of December 5, 2011,   incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2011.**  

(n) 
    Amended Assignment Agreement between Timothy Fenton and the Company, dated January 2008, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.** 

(i) 
    2009 Amendment to the Amended Assignment Agreement between Timothy Fenton and the Company, effective as of January 1, 2009, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.** 

(o) 
    Description of Restricted Stock Units granted to Andrew J. McKenna, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.** 

(p) 
    Terms of the Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2010.** 

(q) 
    McDonald s Corporation Target Incentive Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008, incorporated herein by reference from Form 8-K, filed January 29, 2008.** 

(r) 
    McDonald s Corporation Cash Performance Unit Plan 2010-2012, effective as of February 9, 2010, incorporated herein by reference from Form 8-K, filed February 16, 2010.** 

(s) 
    Executive Supplement describing the special terms of equity compensation awards granted to certain executive officers, pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, as amended, incorporated herein by reference from Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.** 

(t) 
    Transaction Settlement Agreement between Denis Hennequin and the Company dated December 20, 2010 incorporated herein by reference from Form 8-K, filed December 20, 2010.** 

(12) 
    Computation of Ratios. 

(21) 
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      49    

(23) 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

(24) 
    Power of Attorney. 

(31.1) 
    Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 

(31.2) 
    Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer. 

(32.1) 
    Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by the Chief Executive Officer, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

(32.2) 
    Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by the Chief Executive Officer, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

(101.INS) 
    XBRL Instance Document. 

(101.SCH) 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 

(101.CAL) 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 

(101.DEF) 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. 

(101.LAB) 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 

(101.PRE) 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 

* 
    Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant, and all of its subsidiaries for which consolidated financial statements are required to be filed and which are not required to be registered with the Commission, are not included herein as the securities authorized under these instruments, individually, do not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. An agreement to furnish a copy of any such instruments to the Commission upon request has been filed with the Commission.  

** 
    Denotes compensatory plan.  

50      McDonald's Corporation   2012   Annual Report 

Signatures 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
  McDonald s Corporation 
  (Registrant) 
                 By 
    /s/   Peter J. Bensen 
        
    Peter J. Bensen 
        
    Corporate Executive Vice President and 
        
    Chief Financial Officer 
        
      February 25, 2013 
      Date 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in their capacities indicated below on the   25  th day of February,   2013  : 
  Signature, Title 
                 By 
    /s/   Susan E. Arnold 
        
    Susan E. Arnold 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   Peter J. Bensen 
        
    Peter J. Bensen 
        
    Corporate Executive Vice President and 
        
    Chief Financial Officer 
        
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

By 
    /s/   Robert A. Eckert 
        
    Robert A. Eckert 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   Enrique Hernandez, Jr.  
        
    Enrique Hernandez, Jr. 
        
    Director 

By 

Jeanne P. Jackson 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   Richard H. Lenny 
        
    Richard H. Lenny 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   Walter E. Massey 
        
    Walter E. Massey 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   Andrew J. McKenna 
        
    Andrew J. McKenna 
        
    Chairman of the Board and Director 

By 
    /s/   Cary D. McMillan 
        
    Cary D. McMillan 
        
    Director 

Signature, Title 
                 By 
    /s/   Kevin M. Ozan 
        
    Kevin M. Ozan 
        
    Corporate Senior Vice President   Controller 
        
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

By 
    /s/   Sheila A. Penrose 
        
    Sheila A. Penrose 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   John W. Rogers, Jr. 
        
    John W. Rogers, Jr. 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   Roger W. Stone 
        
    Roger W. Stone 
        
    Director 

By 
    /s/   Donald Thompson 
        
    Donald Thompson 
        
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
        
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

By 
    /s/   Miles D. White 
        
    Miles D. White 
        
    Director 

McDonald's Corporation   2012 Annual Report      51    

<EX-12>
 2
 mcd-12312012xex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 12 

* 
    Includes amounts of the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries, and one-half of the amounts of 50%-owned affiliates. The Company records interest expense on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes. This interest is not included in the computation of fixed charges.  

(1) 
    Represents the average of the month-end balances of total assets for the past 13 months.  

(1) 
    Represents the average of the month-end balances of shareholders' equity for the past 13 months.  

(1) 
    Reflects adjustments to the carrying value of debt obligations related to fair value hedges. These adjustments are excluded as they do not affect the amount of obligations at maturity. See Debt financing note to the consolidated financial statements. 
              (2) 
    Includes the effect of interest rate swaps. 

(1) 
    Reflects adjustments to the carrying value of debt obligations related to fair value hedges. These adjustments are excluded as they do not affect the amount of obligations at maturity. See Debt financing note to the consolidated financial statements. 

(1) 
    Reflects adjustments to the carrying value of debt obligations related to fair value hedges. These adjustments are excluded as they do not affect the amount of obligations at maturity. See Debt financing note to the consolidated financial statements. 
              (2) 
    Total capitalization represents debt obligations before fair value adjustments and total shareholders' equity. 

(1) 
    Reflects adjustments to the carrying value of debt obligations related to fair value hedges. These adjustments are excluded as they do not affect the amount of obligations at maturity. See Debt financing note to the consolidated financial statements. 
                                Return on Incremental Invested Capital 

See Part II, Item 7, page 24 of this Form 10-K for the calculation. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 mcd-12312012xex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 21 

Exhibit 21.  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Name of Subsidiary [State or Country of Incorporation]  
  Domestic Subsidiaries  
  Golden Arches UK, LLC [Delaware] 
  McD Asia Pacific, LLC [Delaware]  
  McDonald's Deutschland, Inc. [Delaware]  
  McDonald's Development Italy, Inc. [Delaware]  
  McDonald's International Property Company, Ltd. [Delaware]  
  McDonald's Real Estate Company [Delaware]  
  McDonald's Sistemas de Espana, Inc. [Delaware] 
  McDonald's USA, LLC [Delaware]  
  Foreign Subsidiaries  
  3267114 Nova Scotia Company [Canada] 
  Closed Joint Stock Company  Moscow-McDonald's  [Russia]  
  Golden Arches Restaurants Sdn. Bhd. [Malaysia]  
  Guangdong Sanyuan McDonald's Food Company Limited [China]*  
  HanGook McDonald's Co. Ltd. [South Korea]  
  Klinger Grundst cksverwaltungsgesellschaft m.b.H. [Austria]  
  Limited Liability Company  McDonald's  [Russia]  
  McD APMEA Franchising Pte. Ltd. [Singapore] 
  McD APMEA Holdings Pte. Ltd. [Singapore]  
  McD Europe Franchising S.  r.l. [Luxembourg] 
  McD Luxembourg Holdings S.  r.l. [Luxembourg] 
  McDonald's (China) Company Limited [China] 
  McDonald's (Tianjin) Foods Company Limited [China] 
  McDonald's Australia Limited [Australia]  
  McDonald's Central Europe GmbH [Austria]  
  McDonald's Danmark ApS [Denmark]  
  McDonald's France, S.A.S. [France]  
  McDonald's Franchise GmbH [Austria]  
  McDonald's Gesellschaft m.b.H. [Austria]  
  McDonald's GmbH [Germany]  
  McDonald's Immobilien GmbH [Germany]  
  McDonald's Liegenschaftsverwaltungs Gesellschaft m.b.H. [Austria]  
  McDonald's Nederland B.V. [Netherlands]  
  McDonald's Norge A/S [Norway]  
  McDonald's Polska Sp. z o.o [Poland]  
  McDonald's Real Estate LLP [United Kingdom]  
  McDonald's Restaurants (Hong Kong) Limited [Hong Kong]  
  McDonald's Restaurants (New Zealand) Limited [New Zealand]  
  McDonald's Restaurants (Shenzhen) Company Limited [China]  
  McDonald's Restaurants (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. [Taiwan]  
  McDonald's Restaurants Limited [United Kingdom]  
  McDonald's Restaurants of Canada Limited [Canada]  
  McDonald's Restaurants of Ireland Limited [Ireland] 
  McDonald's Restaurants Pte. Ltd. [Singapore]  
  McDonald's Suisse Development S rl [Switzerland]  
  McDonald's Suisse Franchise S rl [Switzerland]  
  McDonald's Suisse Holding S rl [Switzerland]  
  McDonald's Suisse Restaurants S rl [Switzerland]  
  McKim Corporation [South Korea]  
  Restaurantes McDonald's, S.A. [Spain]  
  Shanghai McDonald's Food Company Limited [China] 
  Sistemas McDonald's Portugal Lda [Portugal]  
  Svenska McDonald's AB [Sweden]  
  Zero Five AS [Norway]  

The names of certain subsidiaries have been omitted because they do not constitute significant subsidiaries. These include, but are not limited to: McDonald's APMEA, LLC [Delaware]; McDonald's Europe, Inc. [Delaware]; McDonald's International, LLC [Delaware]; McDonald's Latin America, LLC [Delaware]; and other domestic and foreign, direct and indirect subsidiaries of the registrant, including 49 wholly-owned subsidiaries of McDonald's USA, LLC, each of which operates one or more McDonald's restaurants within the United States and the District of Columbia. 
           [    ] 
    Brackets indicate state or country of incorporation and do not form part of corporate name.  
              * 
    This subsidiary is not wholly owned by the registrant.  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 mcd-12312012xex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 23 

Exhibit 23.  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements of McDonald's Corporation (listed below) and in the related prospectuses of our reports dated   February 25, 2013   with respect to the consolidated financial statements of McDonald's Corporation and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of McDonald's Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended   December 31, 2012  . 

ERNST   YOUNG LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  February 25, 2013    

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 5
 mcd-12312012xex24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 24 

Exhibit 24.  Power of Attorney 

Power of Attorney  
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned, being a director or officer, or both, of McDonald's Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby constitutes and appoints Peter J. Bensen, Denise A. Horne, Kevin M. Ozan and Gloria Santona, and each one of them, as his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities to execute any and all amendments to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2012  , to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each one of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any one of them, or their or his or her substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  
  This Power of Attorney may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney on and as of the   25  th day of February,   2013  .  
    
                   /s/   Susan E. Arnold 
      
    /s/   Cary D. McMillan 
      Susan E. Arnold 
      
    Cary D. McMillan 
      Director 
      
    Director 

/s/   Peter J. Bensen 
      
    /s/   Kevin M. Ozan 
      Peter J. Bensen 
      
    Kevin M. Ozan 
      Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      
    Corporate Senior Vice President - Controller 

/s/   Robert A. Eckert 
      
    /s/   Sheila A. Penrose 
      Robert A. Eckert 
      
    Sheila A. Penrose 
      Director 
      
    Director 

/s/   Enrique Hernandez, Jr. 
      
    /s/   John W. Rogers, Jr. 
      Enrique Hernandez, Jr. 
      
    John W. Rogers, Jr. 
      Director 
      
    Director 

/s/   Roger W. Stone 
      Jeanne P. Jackson 
      
    Roger W. Stone 
      Director 
      
    Director 

/s/   Richard H. Lenny 
      
    /s/   Donald Thompson 
      Richard H. Lenny 
      
    Donald Thompson 
      Director 
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

/s/   Walter E. Massey 
      
    /s/   Miles D. White 
      Walter E. Massey 
      
    Miles D. White 
      Director 
      
    Director 

/s/   Andrew J. McKenna 

Andrew J. McKenna 

Chairman of the Board and Director 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 mcd-12312012xex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 31.1 

I, Donald Thompson, certify that:  
           (1) 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of McDonald s Corporation; 
              (2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              (3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              (4) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              (5) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
     Date:   February 25, 2013    
               /s/   Donald Thompson 
      Donald Thompson 
      President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 mcd-12312012xex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 31.2 

I, Peter J. Bensen, certify that:  
           (1) 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of McDonald s Corporation; 
              (2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              (3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              (4) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              (5) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
     Date:   February 25, 2013    
               /s/   Peter J. Bensen 
      Peter J. Bensen 
      Corporate Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 mcd-12312012xex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 32.1 

Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of McDonald s Corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify, to such officer s knowledge, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2012   of the Company fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  
  Date:   February 25, 2013    
               /s/   Donald Thompson 
      Donald Thompson 
      President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 mcd-12312012xex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

MCD-12.31.2012-Ex 32.2 

Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of McDonald s Corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify, to such officer s knowledge, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2012   of the Company fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  
  Date:   February 25, 2013    
               /s/   Peter J. Bensen 
      Peter J. Bensen 
      Corporate Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

10-K
 10
 mcd1231201210k.pdf
 PDF OF THE ENTIRE FORM 10-K

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 mcd-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 mcd-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 mcd-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 mcd-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 mcd-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 mcd-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

