<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090223_10-K_edgar_data_50863_0000891618-09-000047_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2117616</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>447204</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>69585</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1148580</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>95</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000891618-09-000047.hdr.sgml : 20090223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090220174451
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891618-09-000047
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		13
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081227
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTEL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000050863
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941672743
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06217
		FILM NUMBER:		09626217

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087658080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 F+Tq7ZjoSNKYlrMxoa+W1Ilwm/izsHUN+NlMJs5ldkCQOTFRRO2adUpVh2QyQGOE
 0OQLC0tS9oJIPEIvhhVCQQ==

 0000891618-09-000047.txt : 20090223

10-K
 1
 f50771e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

(Mark One) 

For
    the fiscal year ended December 27, 2008. 

or 

For
    the transition period from
                          
    to
                          . 

Commission File Number
     000-06217  

INTEL CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code
      (408) 765-8080  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common stock, $0.001 par value

The NASDAQ Global Select Market*

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
    Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
    Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
    by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
    period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
    and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
    the past
    90 days.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark if
    disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
    will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
    non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
    definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
     accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
    company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer     

Accelerated
    filer     

Non-accelerated
    filer      
      (Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    company     

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a shell company (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes         No      

Aggregate market value of voting
    and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant as of June 27, 2008, based upon the closing
    price of the common stock as reported by The NASDAQ Global
    Select Market* on such date, was approximately

$120.9 billion

5,562 million shares of common stock outstanding as of
    February 6, 2009

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the registrant s
    Proxy Statement related to its 2009 Annual Stockholders 
    Meeting to be filed subsequently Part III of this
     Form 10-K. 

INTEL
    CORPORATION 

FORM 10-K  

FOR THE
    FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 27, 2008 

INDEX  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

16

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

23

Item 2. 

Properties 

23

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

23

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

23

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

24

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

26

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

27

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

53

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

55

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

115

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

115

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

115

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

116

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

116

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

116

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

116

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

116

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

117

Table of Contents   

PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Industry  

We are the world s largest
    semiconductor chip maker, based on revenue. We develop advanced
    integrated digital technology products, primarily integrated
    circuits, for industries such as computing and communications.
    Integrated circuits are semiconductor chips etched with
    interconnected electronic switches. We also develop platforms,
    which we define as integrated suites of digital computing
    technologies that are designed and configured to work together
    to provide an optimized user computing solution compared to
    components that are used separately. Our goal is to be the
    preeminent provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the
    worldwide digital economy.

We were incorporated in California
    in 1968 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1989. Our Internet
    address is  www.intel.com . On this web site, we publish
    voluntary reports, which we update annually, outlining our
    performance with respect to corporate responsibility, including
    environmental, health, and safety compliance.

We use our Investor Relations web
    site,  www.intc.com,  as a channel for routine distribution
    of important information, including news releases, analyst
    presentations, and financial information. We post filings as
    soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual, quarterly, and
    current reports on
     Forms 10-K, 
     10-Q,  and
     8-K;  our
    proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or
    statements. All such postings and filings are available on our
    Investor Relations web site free of charge. In addition, this
    web site allows investors and other interested persons to sign
    up to automatically receive
     e-mail 
    alerts when we post news releases and financial information on
    our web site. The SEC also maintains a web site,
     www.sec.gov,  that contains reports, proxy and information
    statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
    electronically with the SEC. The content on any web site
    referred to in this
     Form 10-K 
    is not incorporated by reference into this
     Form 10-K 
    unless expressly noted.

Products  

We strive to design and
    manufacture computing and communications components and
    platforms with improved overall performance
     and/or 
    improved energy efficiency. Improved overall performance can
    include faster processing performance and other improved
    capabilities, such as multithreading and multitasking.
    Performance can also be improved through enhanced connectivity,
    storage, security, manageability, utilization, reliability, ease
    of use, and interoperability among devices. Improved
    energy-efficient performance is achieved by balancing
    performance factors with lower power consumption. Lower power
    consumption may extend utilization time for battery-powered form
    factors and reduce system heat output, thereby providing power
    savings and reducing the total cost of ownership.

We offer products at various
    levels of integration, to allow our customers flexibility in
    creating computing and communications systems.

Components   

Microprocessors  

A microprocessor the central
    processing unit (CPU) of a computer system processes system
    data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the
     brains  of the computer. We offer microprocessors
    with one or multiple processor cores designed for desktops,
    nettops, workstations, servers, embedded products,
    communications products, notebooks, netbooks, mobile Internet
    devices (MIDs), and consumer electronics. The following are
    characteristics of our microprocessors:

Multi-core microprocessors contain
    two or more processor cores, which can enable improved
    multitasking and energy-efficient performance by distributing
    computing tasks across multiple cores.

Cache is a memory that can be
    located directly on the microprocessor, permitting quicker
    access to frequently used data and instructions. Incorporating
    additional amounts
     and/or 
    levels of cache can enable higher performance.

Our microprocessors can also
    include integrated memory controllers, which increase the speed
    of data transfer from cache and system memory.

1

Table of Contents   

During 2008, we introduced a new
    microarchitecture based on our 45-nanometer (nm) Hi-k metal gate
    silicon process technology (latest generation
    Intel   

    Core  tm    

    microarchitecture). Microarchitecture refers to the layout,
    density, and logical design of a microprocessor. The latest
    generation Intel Core microarchitecture incorporates features
    designed to increase performance and energy efficiency, such as:

Feature 

Performance Enhancement 

Intel   

    QuickPath Technology

Utilizes an integrated memory controller to allow faster memory
    access than a standard front side bus

Intel   

    Turbo Boost Technology

Increases processor frequency when applications demand more
    performance

Intel   

    Hyper-Threading Technology

Allows each processor core to process two software tasks or
    threads simultaneously

During 2008, we also introduced
    the
    Intel   

    Atom  tm    

    processor family. These low-power processors are specifically
    designed for embedded solutions, MIDs, consumer electronics, and
    two new classes of simple and affordable Internet-focused
    computers called netbooks and nettops.

Chipsets  

The chipset operates as the
     nervous system  in a PC or other computing device,
    sending data between the microprocessor and input, display, and
    storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse, monitor, hard
    drive, and CD or DVD drive. We offer chipsets designed for
    desktops, nettops, workstations, servers, embedded products,
    communications products, notebooks, netbooks, MIDs, and consumer
    electronics. The following are functions of chipsets:

Chipsets perform essential logic
    functions, such as balancing the performance of the system and
    removing bottlenecks.

Chipsets extend the graphics,
    audio, video, and other capabilities of many systems.

Chipsets may also control access
    between the CPU and system memory.

Motherboards  

We offer motherboard products
    designed for our desktop, workstation, and server platforms. A
    motherboard is the principal board within a system, and
    typically contains the CPU, chipset, memory, and other
    components. The motherboard also has connectors for attaching
    devices to the bus, which is the subsystem that transfers data
    between various components of a computer.

Wired and
    Wireless Connectivity  

We offer wired and wireless
    connectivity products, including network adapters and embedded
    wireless cards, based on industry-standard protocols used to
    translate and transmit data across networks. Wireless
    connectivity products based on WiFi technology allow users to
    wirelessly connect to high-speed local area networks, typically
    within a close range. We have also developed wireless
    connectivity products for both mobile and fixed networks based
    on WiMAX, a standards-based wireless technology providing
    high-speed broadband connectivity, which links users and
    networks up to several miles apart.

Platforms   

We offer platforms that
    incorporate various components and technologies. A platform
    typically includes a microprocessor, chipset, and enabling
    software, and may include additional hardware, services, and
    support. In developing our platforms, we may include components
    made by other companies. A component is one of any number of
    software or hardware features that may be incorporated into a
    computer, handheld device, or other computing system, including
    a microprocessor, chipset, motherboard, memory, wired or
    wireless connectivity device, or software. Platforms based on
    our latest generation Intel Core microarchitecture integrate a
    memory controller into each microprocessor and connect
    processors and other components with a high-speed interconnect.
    We refer to certain platform brands within our product offerings
    as processor technologies.

2

Table of Contents   

Microprocessor
    and Platform Technologies   

We offer features to improve
    microprocessor and platform capabilities that can enhance system
    performance and user experience. For example, we offer
    technologies that can help information technology managers
    diagnose, fix, and protect enabled systems that are plugged into
    a power source and connected to a network, even if a computer is
    turned off or has a failed hard drive or operating system.
    Additional features can enable virtualization, in which a single
    computer system can function as multiple virtual systems by
    running multiple operating systems and applications.
    Virtualization can consolidate workloads and provide increased
    security and management capabilities. To take advantage of these
    and other features that we offer, a computer system must have a
    microprocessor that supports a chipset and BIOS (basic
    input/output system) that use the technology, and software that
    is optimized for the technology. Performance will vary depending
    on the system hardware and software used.

Additional
    Product Offerings   

NAND flash memory
       is a specialized type
    of memory component primarily used in memory cards, digital
    audio players, and system-level applications, such as
    solid-state drives used to store data and program code. NAND
    flash memory retains information even when the power is off, and
    provides faster access to data than traditional hard drives.
    Flash memory does not have any moving parts, unlike a device
    such as a rapidly spinning disk drive, allowing flash memory to
    be more tolerant of bumps and shocks.

Communications infrastructure
    products    are the basic
    building blocks for modular communications platforms and include
    advanced, fully programmable processors used in networking
    equipment to rapidly manage and direct data moving across
    networks and the Internet.

Network and server storage
    products    include
    small-business and
     home-network 
    memory systems built for performance, security, and
    manageability. These products allow data storage resources to be
    added to either of the two most prevalent types of networking
    technology: Ethernet or Fibre Channel.

Software products
       primarily help enable
    the creation of applications with software development tools
    designed to complement our latest hardware technologies.

Revenue
    by Major Operating Segment   

Net revenue for our major
    operating segments, the Digital Enterprise Group (DEG) and the
    Mobility Group (MG), presented as a percentage of our
    consolidated net revenue, was as follows:

Percentage
    of Revenue 
       (Dollars
    in Millions)

3

Table of Contents   

Revenue from sales of
    microprocessors for our major operating segments, presented as a
    percentage of our consolidated net revenue, was as follows:

Percentage
    of Revenue 
       (Dollars
    in Millions)

Below, we discuss the key products
    and processor technologies, including some key introductions, of
    our major operating segments. For a discussion of our strategy,
    see  Strategy  in Part II, Item 7 of this Form
     10-K. 

Digital
    Enterprise Group   

The Digital Enterprise Group
    offers products that are incorporated into desktop and nettop
    computers, enterprise computing servers and workstations, a
    broad range of embedded applications, and other products that
    help make up the infrastructure for the Internet. DEG s
    products include microprocessors and related chipsets and
    motherboards designed for the desktop and enterprise computing
    market segments; microprocessors and chipsets for embedded
    applications; components for communications infrastructure
    equipment, such as network processors; wired connectivity
    devices; and products for network and server storage.

Desktop
    Market Segment  

Our current desktop microprocessor
    offerings include the:

Intel   

Core  tm  

i7 processor Extreme Edition

Intel   

    Pentium   

    Dual-Core processor

Intel   

Core  tm  

i7 processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    Dual-Core processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Extreme processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Quad processor

Intel   

Atom  tm  

processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Duo processor

Most of these Intel Core
    microarchitecture-based processors are manufactured using our
    45nm Hi-k metal gate silicon technology (45nm process
    technology). We offer desktop microprocessors at a variety of
    price/performance points, from the high-end Intel Core i7
    processor Extreme Edition a quad-core processor based on
    our latest generation Intel Core microarchitecture designed for
    processor-intensive tasks in demanding multitasking
    environments to the Intel Celeron processor designed to
    provide value, quality, and reliability for basic computing
    needs. In addition, we offer the Intel Atom processor designed
    for low-power and affordable Internet-focused devices. The
    related chipsets for our desktop microprocessor offerings
    primarily include
    Intel   

    4 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel   

    3 Series Express Chipsets, and
    Intel   

    900 Series Express Chipsets.

We also offer processor
    technologies based on our microprocessors, chipsets, and
    motherboard products that are optimized for the desktop market
    segment. For business desktop PCs, we offer the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    2

    Duo processor with
    vPro  tm    

    technology and the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    2

    Quad processor with
    vPro  tm    

    technology, which are designed to provide increased security and
    manageability, energy-efficient performance, and lower cost of
    ownership.

4

Table of Contents   

Our new product offerings in 2008
    and early 2009 include:

The Intel Core i7 processor
    family, including the Intel Core i7 processor Extreme Edition,
    based on our latest generation Intel Core microarchitecture, and
    designed for high-performance, power-efficient computing.

Intel Atom processors designed for
    low-power and affordable Internet-focused devices.

Intel 4 Series Express Chipsets
    designed to be used with 45nm Intel Core 2 Duo and Intel Core 2
    Quad processors, helping to improve mainstream desktop system
    performance, energy efficiency, and video and sound quality.

Desktop motherboards that support
    a new generation of
    Intel   

    vPro  tm    

    technology for business desktop PCs with enhanced manageability
    and security features.

Enterprise
    Market Segment  

Our current server and workstation
    microprocessor offerings include the
    Intel   

    Xeon   

    processor and the
    Intel   

    Itanium   

    processor. Our Intel Xeon processor family of products supports
    a range of entry-level to high-end technical and commercial
    computing applications such as IP data centers. Compared to our
    Intel Xeon processor family, our Intel Itanium processor family
    generally supports an even higher level of reliability and
    computing performance for data processing, handling high
    transaction volumes, and other compute-intensive applications
    for enterprise-class servers, as well as supercomputing
    solutions. Servers, which usually have multiple microprocessors
    or cores working together, manage large amounts of data, direct
    data traffic, perform complex transactions, and control central
    functions in local and wide area networks and on the Internet.
    Workstations typically offer higher performance than standard
    desktop PCs and are used for applications such as engineering
    design, digital content creation, and high-performance computing.

Our new product offerings in 2008
    and early 2009 include:

Low-voltage Quad-Core Intel Xeon
    processors based on our 45nm process technology.

Intel Xeon processors designed to
    reduce the use of environmentally sensitive materials.

Intel Xeon processors with up to
    six processing cores and 16 megabytes (MB) of shared cache
    memory. These processors are built using our 45nm process
    technology, and are designed for high-end servers with up to 16
    processor sockets.

Embedded
    and Communications Market Segments  

We offer microprocessors and
    chipsets for embedded applications, and components such as
    network processors for communications infrastructure
    equipment.

Our new product offerings in 2008
    and early 2009 include:

Quad-Core and Dual-Core Intel Xeon
    processors for embedded market segments, based on our 45nm
    process technology. These processors are designed for storage,
    router, security, medical, communications, and other
    high-performance, memory-intensive applications.

Intel Atom processors designed for
    embedded applications such as in-vehicle
    information/entertainment systems, portable
     point-of-sale 
    retail devices, and industrial robotics.

A new category of highly
    integrated, purpose-built System on Chip (SoC) products designed
    for embedded security, storage, communications, and industrial
    robotic applications. SoC products integrate core processing
    functionality with specific components, such as graphics, audio,
    and video, onto a single chip with reduced power consumption and
    size. These SoC products are based on
    Intel   

    architecture.

Mobility
    Group   

The Mobility Group offers products
    including microprocessors and related chipsets designed for the
    notebook and netbook market segments, wireless connectivity
    products, and energy-efficient products designed for the MID and
    ultra-mobile PC market segments. We also offer
    Intel   

    Centrino   

    and
    Intel   

    Centrino   

    2 processor technologies based on our microprocessors, chipsets,
    and wireless network connections.

Our current mobile microprocessor
    offerings include the:

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Extreme mobile processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    Dual-Core processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Quad mobile processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    M processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Duo mobile processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Solo mobile processor

Intel   

Atom  tm  

processor

5

Table of Contents   

We offer mobile microprocessors
    for notebooks at a variety of price/performance points, from the
    Intel Core 2 Extreme mobile processor designed for gaming to the
    Intel Celeron processor designed to provide value, quality, and
    reliability for basic computing needs. In addition, we offer the
    Intel Atom processor designed for netbooks, MIDs, and
    ultra-mobile PCs. We offer these processors in various packaging
    options, giving our customers flexibility for a wide range of
    system designs for notebook PCs and other mobile computing
    devices. The related chipsets for our mobile microprocessor
    offerings primarily include Mobile
    Intel   

    4 Series Express Chipsets and Mobile
    Intel   

    900 Series Express Chipsets.

In 2008, the majority of the
    revenue in the MG operating segment was from the sale of
    products that make up our Intel Centrino and Intel Centrino 2
    processor technologies. These technologies are designed to
    provide high performance with improved multitasking,
    power-saving features to improve battery life, smaller form
    factors, wireless network connectivity, and improved boot times
    compared to similar microprocessors that do not incorporate our
    Intel Centrino and Intel Centrino 2 processor technologies.
    Intel   

    Centrino   

    with
    vPro  tm    

    technology and
    Intel   

    Centrino   

    2 with
    vPro  tm    

    technology include the features of Intel Centrino and Intel
    Centrino 2 processor technologies, respectively, and are
    designed to provide mobile business PCs with increased security,
    manageability, and energy-efficient performance.

Our new product offerings in 2008
    and early 2009 include:

Intel Core 2 Quad mobile
    processors, designed to handle complex compute and visualization
    tasks on notebook workstations.

Intel Centrino 2 processor
    technology and Intel Centrino 2 with vPro technology, designed
    to deliver higher performance, longer battery life, faster
    wireless connectivity, and enhanced manageability and security
    capabilities compared to earlier versions of Intel Centrino
    processor technology. These platforms are based on new versions
    of Intel Core 2 Duo mobile processors.

Mobile Intel 4 Series Express
    Chipsets designed to be used with 45nm Intel Core 2 Duo and
    Intel Core 2 Quad mobile processors.

Intel Atom processors specifically
    designed for MIDs and netbooks.

Other
    Products   

NAND
    Solutions Group  

We offer NAND flash memory
    products primarily used in memory cards and system-level
    applications, such as solid-state drives. Our solid-state
    drives, available in densities ranging from 1 gigabyte (GB) to
    160 GB, are designed to enable faster boot times, lower power
    consumption, increase reliability, improve performance, and
    weigh less than standard hard disk drives. Components for our
    NAND flash memory products are manufactured by IM Flash
    Technologies, LLC (IMFT) using 34nm or 50nm process technology.
    See  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Our new product offerings in 2008
    and early 2009 include:

80-GB and 160-GB solid-state
    drives based on NAND flash technology, designed for laptop and
    desktop computers.

High-performance, 32-GB and 64-GB
    solid-state drives based on NAND flash technology, designed for
    use in servers, workstations, and storage systems.

Digital
    Home Group  

The Digital Home Group offers
    products, including SoC designs, for use in consumer electronics
    devices designed to access and share Internet, broadcast,
    optical media, and personal content through a variety of linked
    digital devices within the home. In addition, we offer
    components for consumer electronics devices such as digital TVs,
    high-definition media players, and set-top boxes, which receive,
    decode, and convert incoming data signals.

Digital
    Health Group  

The Digital Health Group offers
    technology-enabled products for healthcare providers as well as
    for use in personal healthcare. In 2008, we introduced the
    Intel   

    Health Guide, a personal health system designed to allow
    clinicians to remotely monitor and manage patients  care
    through an online interface.

6

Table of Contents   

Manufacturing
    and Assembly and Test  

As of December 27, 2008, 70% of
    our wafer fabrication, including microprocessors and chipsets,
    was conducted within the U.S. at our facilities in Arizona,
    Oregon, Massachusetts, New Mexico, and California. The remaining
    30% of our wafer fabrication was conducted outside the U.S. at
    our facilities in Ireland and Israel.

As of December 27, 2008, we
    primarily manufactured our products in wafer fabrication
    facilities at the following locations:

We expect to increase the capacity
    of certain facilities listed above through additional
    investments in capital equipment. In addition to our current
    facilities, we are building a 300mm wafer fabrication facility
    in China. Subsequent to the end of 2008, management approved
    plans to restructure some of our manufacturing and assembly and
    test operations, and align our manufacturing and assembly and
    test capacity to current market conditions. These actions, which
    are expected to take place beginning in 2009, include stopping
    production at a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Oregon and
    ending production at our 200mm wafer fabrication facility in
    California.

As of December 27, 2008, the
    substantial majority of our microprocessors were manufactured on
    300mm wafers using our 45nm process technology. In the second
    half of 2009, we expect to begin manufacturing microprocessors
    using our 32nm process technology. As we move to each succeeding
    generation of manufacturing process technology, we incur
    significant
     start-up 
    costs to prepare each factory for manufacturing. However,
    continuing to advance our process technology provides benefits
    that we believe justify these costs. The benefits of moving to
    each succeeding generation of manufacturing process technology
    can include using less space per transistor, reducing heat
    output from each transistor,
     and/or 
    increasing the number of integrated features on each chip. These
    advancements can result in microprocessors that are higher
    performing, consume less power,
     and/or  cost
    less to manufacture.

To augment capacity, we use
    third-party manufacturing companies (foundries) to manufacture
    wafers for certain components, including networking and
    communications products. In addition, we primarily use
    subcontractors to manufacture board-level products and systems,
    and purchase certain communications networking products from
    external vendors, principally in the Asia-Pacific region.

Our NAND flash memory products are
    manufactured by IMFT, a NAND flash memory manufacturing company
    that we formed with Micron Technology, Inc. We currently
    purchase 49% of the manufactured output of IMFT. Assembly and
    test of NAND flash memory products is performed by Micron and
    other external subcontractors. See  Note 6: Equity Method
    and Cost Method Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K. 

During the second quarter of 2008,
    we completed the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business in
    exchange for an ownership interest in Numonyx B.V. We entered
    into supply and services agreements that involved the
    manufacture and the assembly and test of NOR flash memory
    products for Numonyx through 2008. In the fourth quarter of
    2008, we agreed with Numonyx to extend certain supply and
    service agreements through the end of 2009. In addition, we are
    leasing a wafer fabrication facility located in Israel to
    Numonyx. That facility is not shown in our above listing of
    wafer fabrication facilities. See  Note 6: Equity Method
    and Cost Method Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K. 

Following the manufacturing
    process, the majority of our components are subject to assembly
    and test. We perform our components assembly and test at
    facilities in Malaysia, China, Costa Rica, and the Philippines.
    We are building a new assembly and test facility in Vietnam that
    is expected to begin production in 2010. To augment capacity, we
    use subcontractors to perform assembly of certain products,
    primarily chipsets and networking and communications products.
    The restructuring plans described above include closing two
    assembly and test facilities in Malaysia, one facility in the
    Philippines, and one facility in China, and are expected to take
    place beginning in 2009.

7

Table of Contents   

Our employment practices are
    consistent with, and we expect our suppliers and subcontractors
    to abide by, local country law. In addition, we impose a minimum
    employee age requirement as well as progressive environmental,
    health, and safety (EHS) requirements, regardless of local law.

We have thousands of suppliers,
    including subcontractors, providing our various materials and
    service needs. We set expectations for supplier performance and
    reinforce those expectations with periodic assessments. We
    communicate those expectations to our suppliers regularly and
    work with them to implement improvements when necessary. We
    seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all
    of these materials and resources, but we may rely on a single or
    limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single
    country. In those cases, we develop and implement plans and
    actions to reduce the exposure that would result from a
    disruption in supply. We have entered into long-term contracts
    with certain suppliers to ensure a portion of our silicon supply.

Our products typically are
    produced at multiple Intel facilities at various sites around
    the world, or by subcontractors who have multiple facilities.
    However, some products are produced in only one Intel or
    subcontractor facility, and we seek to implement actions and
    plans to reduce the exposure that would result from a disruption
    at any such facility. See  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Form
     10-K. 

Research
    and Development  

We are committed to investing in
    world-class technology development, particularly in the design
    and manufacture of integrated circuits. Research and development
    (R D) expenditures in 2008 were $5.7 billion ($5.8 billion
    in fiscal year 2007 and $5.9 billion in fiscal year 2006).

Our R D activities are
    directed toward developing the technology innovations that we
    believe will deliver our next generation of products and
    platforms, which will in turn enable new form factors and new
    usage models for businesses and consumers. Our R D
    activities range from design and development of products, to
    developing and refining manufacturing processes, to researching
    future technologies and products.

We are focusing our R D
    efforts on advanced computing, communications, and wireless
    technologies as well as energy efficiency by developing new
    microarchitectures, advancing our silicon manufacturing process
    technology, delivering the next generation of microprocessors
    and chipsets, improving our platform initiatives, and developing
    software solutions and tools to support our technologies. Our
    R D efforts enable new levels of performance and address
    areas such as scalability for multi-core architectures, energy
    efficiency, system manageability and security, ease of use, and
    new communications capabilities. In addition, we are making
    significant R D investments in growth areas such as SoC,
    MIDs, embedded applications, consumer electronics, and graphics.

As part of our R D efforts,
    we plan to introduce a new microarchitecture for our mobile,
    desktop, and Intel Xeon processors approximately every two years
    and ramp the next generation of silicon process technology in
    the intervening years. We refer to this as our
     tick-tock  technology development cadence. Our
    leadership in silicon technology has enabled us to make
     Moore s Law  a reality. Moore s Law
    predicted that transistor density on integrated circuits would
    double about every two years. Our leadership in silicon
    technology has also helped to expand on the advances anticipated
    by Moore s Law by bringing new capabilities into silicon
    and producing new products and platforms optimized for a wider
    variety of applications. In 2008, we introduced a new
    microarchitecture using our 45nm process technology. We are
    currently developing 32nm process technology, our
    next-generation process technology, and expect to begin
    manufacturing products using that technology in the second half
    of 2009.

Our R D model is based on a
    global organization that emphasizes a collaborative approach to
    identifying and developing new technologies, leading standards
    initiatives, and influencing regulatory policy to accelerate the
    adoption of new technologies. Our R D initiatives are
    performed by various business groups within the company, and we
    centrally manage key cross-business group product initiatives to
    align and prioritize our R D activities across these
    groups. In addition, we may augment our R D initiatives by
    investing in companies or entering into agreements with
    companies that have similar R D focus areas. For example,
    we have an agreement with Micron for joint development of NAND
    flash memory technologies.

8

Table of Contents   

Employees  

As of December 27, 2008, we
    had approximately 83,900 employees worldwide, with more
    than 50% of these employees located in the U.S. Worldwide,
    we had approximately 86,300 employees as of
    December 29, 2007 and 94,100 as of December 30, 2006.

Sales and
    Marketing  

Customers   

We sell our products primarily to
    original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design
    manufacturers (ODMs). ODMs provide design
     and/or 
    manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label
    resellers. In addition, we sell our products to other
    manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial
    and communications equipment. Our customers also include PC and
    network communications products users who buy PC components and
    our other products through distributor, reseller, retail, and
    OEM channels throughout the world. In certain instances, we have
    entered into supply agreements to continue to manufacture and
    sell products of divested business lines to acquiring companies
    during certain transition periods.

Our worldwide reseller sales
    channel consists of thousands of indirect customers who are
    systems builders that purchase Intel microprocessors and other
    products from our distributors. We have a boxed processor
    program that allows distributors to sell Intel microprocessors
    in small quantities to these systems-builder customers; boxed
    processors are also available in direct retail outlets.

In 2008, Hewlett-Packard Company
    accounted for 20% of our net revenue (17% in 2007) and Dell
    Inc. accounted for 18% of our net revenue (18% in 2007). No
    other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue.
    For information about revenue and operating income by operating
    segment, and revenue from unaffiliated customers by geographic
    region/country, see  Results of Operations  in
    Part II, Item 7 and  Note 25: Operating
    Segment and Geographic Information  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Sales
    Arrangements   

Our products are sold or licensed
    through sales offices throughout the world. Sales of our
    products are typically made via purchase orders that contain
    standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing,
    payment terms, and warranties, as well as indemnities for issues
    specific to our products, such as patent and copyright
    indemnities. From time to time, we may enter into additional
    agreements with customers covering, for example, changes from
    our standard terms and conditions, new product development and
    marketing, private-label branding, and other matters. Most of
    our sales are made using electronic and web-based processes that
    allow the customer to review inventory availability and track
    the progress of specific goods ordered. Pricing on particular
    products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. We
    also offer discounts, rebates, and other incentives to customers
    to increase acceptance of our products and technology.

Our products are typically shipped
    under terms that transfer title to the customer, even in
    arrangements for which the recognition of revenue and related
    costs of sales is deferred. Our standard terms and conditions of
    sale typically provide that payment is due at a later date,
    generally 30 days after shipment, delivery, or the
    customer s use of the product. Our credit department sets
    accounts receivable and shipping limits for individual customers
    to control credit risk to Intel arising from outstanding account
    balances. We assess credit risk through quantitative and
    qualitative analysis, and from this analysis, we establish
    credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or
    more credit support devices, such as obtaining some form of
    third-party guaranty or standby letter of credit, or obtaining
    credit insurance for all or a portion of the account balance if
    necessary. Credit losses may still be incurred due to
    bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. For
    information about our allowance for doubtful receivables, see
     Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts  in Part IV of this
     Form 10-K. 

Most of our sales to distributors
    are made under agreements allowing for price protection on
    unsold merchandise and a right of return on stipulated
    quantities of unsold merchandise. Under the price protection
    program, we give distributors credits for the difference between
    the original price paid and the current price that we offer. On
    most products, there is no contractual limit on the amount of
    price protection, nor is there a limit on the time horizon under
    which price protection is granted. The right of return granted
    generally consists of a stock rotation program in which
    distributors are able to exchange certain products based on the
    number of qualified purchases made by the distributor. Although
    we have the option to grant credit for, repair, or replace
    defective product, there is no contractual limit on the amount
    of credit granted to a distributor.

9

Table of Contents   

Distribution   

Typically, distributors handle a
    wide variety of products, including those that compete with our
    products, and fill orders for many customers. We also utilize
    third-party sales representatives who generally do not offer
    directly competitive products but may carry complementary items
    manufactured by others. Sales representatives do not maintain a
    product inventory; instead, their customers place orders
    directly with us or through distributors.

Backlog   

We do not believe that backlog as
    of any particular date is meaningful, as our sales are made
    primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of
    products. Only a small portion of our orders is non-cancelable,
    and the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion
    is not significant.

Seasonal
    Trends   

Our microprocessor sales generally
    have followed a seasonal trend. Historically, our sales have
    been higher in the second half of the year than in the first
    half of the year. Consumer purchases of PCs have historically
    been higher in the second half of the year, primarily due to
    back-to-school and holiday demand. In addition, purchases from
    businesses have also historically tended to be higher in the
    second half of the year. This seasonal trend did not occur in
    2008, and there can be no assurance that it will resume in the
    future.

Marketing   

Our corporate marketing objectives
    are to build a strong Intel corporate brand that connects with
    consumers, and have a limited set of product brands for our
    advanced microprocessors and related technologies. Our intention
    is to have a limited number of meaningful and valuable brands in
    our portfolio to aid in making informed choices and making
    technology purchase decisions easier for both businesses and
    consumers. The Intel Core i7, Intel Core 2 Extreme, Intel Core 2
    Quad, Intel Core 2 Duo, Intel Atom, Pentium, Celeron, Intel
    Xeon, and Itanium trademarks make up our processor brands.
    Microprocessors are at the center of our most advanced processor
    technologies, which include Intel Centrino processor technology
    and Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology.

We promote brand awareness and
    generate demand through our own direct marketing as well as
    co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include
    television, print and web-based advertising, as well as press
    relations, consumer and trade events, and industry and consumer
    communications. We market to consumer and business audiences,
    and focus on building awareness and generating demand for
    increased performance, power efficiency, and new capabilities.

Purchases by customers often allow
    them to participate in cooperative advertising and marketing
    programs such as the Intel
    Inside   

    Program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct advertising. Through the Intel
    Inside Program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel
    logos on computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in marketing activities. The
    program includes a market development component that accrues
    funds based on purchases and partially reimburses the OEMs for
    marketing activities for products featuring Intel brands,
    subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These marketing
    activities primarily include television, web-based marketing,
    and print; and in the beginning of 2008, we increased our focus
    on web-based marketing. We have also entered into joint
    marketing arrangements with certain customers.

Competition  

The semiconductor industry is
    dynamic, characterized by rapid advances in technology and
    frequent product introductions. As unit volumes of a product
    grow, production experience is accumulated and costs typically
    decrease, further competition develops, and prices decline. The
    life cycle of our products is very short, sometimes less than a
    year. These short product life cycles and other factors lead to
    frequent negotiations with our OEM customers, which typically
    are large, sophisticated buyers who are also operating in very
    competitive environments. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to navigate this environment, by improving our products
    and processes faster than our competitors, anticipating changing
    customer requirements, developing and launching new products and
    platforms, pricing our products competitively, and reducing
    average unit costs. See  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

10

Table of Contents   

Our products compete primarily
    based on performance, features, price, quality, reliability,
    brand recognition, and availability. We are focused on offering
    innovative products and worldwide support for our customers at
    competitive prices, including providing improved
    energy-efficient performance, enhanced security, manageability,
    and integrated solutions. We believe that our platform strategy
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We offer platforms
    that incorporate various components designed and configured to
    work together to provide an optimized user computing solution
    compared to components that are used separately.

Our competitors range in size from
    large established multinational companies with multiple product
    lines to smaller companies and new entrants to the marketplace
    that compete in specialized market segments. Some of our
    competitors may have development agreements with other
    companies, and in some cases our competitors may also be our
    customers or suppliers. Product offerings may cross over into
    multiple product categories, providing us with new opportunities
    but also resulting in more competition. It may be difficult for
    us to compete in market segments in which our competitors have
    established products and brand recognition.

We believe that our network of
    manufacturing facilities and assembly and test facilities gives
    us a competitive advantage. This network enables us to have more
    direct control over our processes, quality control, product
    cost, volume, timing of production, and other factors. These
    facilities require significant up-front capital spending, and
    many of our competitors do not own such facilities because they
    may not be able to afford to do so or because their business
    models involve the use of third-party facilities for
    manufacturing and assembly and test. These  fabless
    semiconductor companies  include Broadcom Corporation,
    NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies,
    Inc. (VIA). Some of our competitors own portions of such
    facilities through investment or joint-venture arrangements with
    other companies. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) intends to
    sell an interest in its manufacturing operations.

A group of foundries and assembly
    and test subcontractors offers their services to companies that
    do not own facilities or to companies needing additional
    capacity. These foundries and subcontractors may also offer
    intellectual property, design services, and other goods and
    services to our competitors. A disadvantage of our approach
    compared to fabless semiconductor companies is that it is more
    difficult for us to reduce our costs in the short term. Also,
    competitors who outsource their manufacturing and assembly and
    test operations can significantly reduce their capital
    expenditures.

We plan to continue to cultivate
    new businesses and work with the computing and communications
    industries through standards bodies, trade associations, OEMs,
    ODMs, and independent software and operating system vendors to
    help align the industry to offer products that take advantage of
    the latest market trends and usage models. We frequently
    participate in industry initiatives designed to discuss and
    agree upon technical specifications and other aspects of
    technologies that could be adopted as standards by
    standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.

Microprocessors   

We continue to be largely
    dependent on the success of our microprocessor business. Our
    ability to compete depends on our ability to deliver new
    microprocessor products with improved overall performance and
    improved energy-efficient performance at competitive prices.
    Some of our microprocessor competitors, such as AMD, market
    software-compatible products that compete with our processors.
    We also face competition from companies offering rival
    architecture designs, such as Cell Broadband Engine Architecture
    developed jointly by International Business Machines Corporation
    (IBM), Sony Corporation, and Toshiba Corporation; Power
    Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM architecture developed by ARM
    Limited; and Scalable Processor Architecture (SPARC*) offered by
    Sun Microsystems, Inc. NVIDIA has developed a programming
    interface to attempt to expand the use of its graphics
    processors to accomplish general-purpose computing functions
    typically performed by a microprocessor in highly parallel
    applications.

The following is a list of our
    main microprocessor competitors by market segment:

Desktop: AMD and VIA

Mobile: AMD and VIA

Enterprise: AMD, IBM, and Sun
    Microsystems

Embedded: AMD, Freescale
    Semiconductor, Inc., and VIA

In addition, our Intel Atom
    processor family competes against processors offered by AMD and
    VIA, and from companies using rival architectures, such as ARM
    and MIPS.

11

Table of Contents   

Chipsets   

Our chipsets compete in the
    various market segments against different types of chipsets that
    support either our microprocessor products or rival
    microprocessor products. Competing chipsets are produced by
    companies such as AMD (including chipsets marketed under the ATI
    Technologies, Inc. brand), NVIDIA, Silicon Integrated Systems
    Corporation, and VIA.

We also compete with companies
    offering graphics components and other special-purpose products
    used in the desktop, mobile, and enterprise market segments. One
    aspect of our business model is to incorporate improved
    performance and advanced properties into our microprocessors and
    chipsets, for which demand may increasingly be affected by
    competition from companies, such as NVIDIA and AMD (including
    products marketed under the ATI Technologies, Inc. brand), whose
    business models are based on incorporating improved performance
    into dedicated chipsets and other components, such as graphics
    controllers.

Flash
    Memory   

Our NAND flash memory products
    currently compete with NOR and NAND products primarily
    manufactured by Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Micron, Numonyx,
    Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SanDisk Corporation, Spansion
    Inc., and Toshiba.

Connectivity   

We offer products designed for
    wired and wireless connectivity; the communications
    infrastructure, including network processors; and networked
    storage. Our WiFi and WiMAX products currently compete with
    products manufactured by Atheros Communications, Inc., Broadcom,
    QUALCOMM, and other smaller companies.

Competition
    Lawsuits and Government Investigations   

We are currently a party to a
    variety of lawsuits and government investigations involving our
    competitive practices. See  Note 24:
    Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments  

During 2008, we completed two
    acquisitions qualifying as business combinations. See
     Note 11: Acquisitions  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    Also, we completed the divestiture of our NOR flash memory
    business in exchange for an ownership interest in Numonyx.

Additionally, in 2008, we made a
    significant strategic investment in Clearwire Communications,
    LLC (Clearwire LLC). During the fourth quarter of 2008,
    Clearwire Corporation and Sprint Nextel Corporation combined
    their respective WiMAX businesses in conjunction with additional
    capital contributions from Intel and other investors to form a
    new company that retained the name Clearwire Corporation. The
    additional capital contributions included our cash investment of
    $1.0 billion. Our pre-existing investment in Clearwire
    Corporation (old Clearwire Corporation) was converted into
    shares of the new company (new Clearwire Corporation), and the
    additional capital contribution of $1.0 billion was
    invested in Clearwire LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the new
    Clearwire Corporation. For further discussion of our equity
    method investment in Clearwire LLC, see  Note 6:
    Equity Method and Cost Method Investments  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

12

Table of Contents   

Intellectual
    Property and Licensing  

Intellectual property rights that
    apply to our various products and services include patents,
    copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and maskwork rights. We
    maintain a program to protect our investment in technology by
    attempting to ensure respect for our intellectual property
    rights. The extent of the legal protection given to different
    types of intellectual property rights varies under different
    countries  legal systems. We intend to license our
    intellectual property rights where we can obtain adequate
    consideration. See  Competition  in Part I,
    Item 1,  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A, and  Note 24: Contingencies  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

We have filed and obtained a
    number of patents in the U.S. and other countries. While our
    patents are an important element of our success, our business as
    a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. We and
    other companies in the computing, telecommunications, and
    related high-technology fields typically apply for and receive,
    in the aggregate, tens of thousands of overlapping patents
    annually in the U.S. and other countries. We believe that the
    duration of the applicable patents that we are granted is
    adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Because
    of the fast pace of innovation and product development, our
    products are often obsolete before the patents related to them
    expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to
    them are even granted. As we expand our product offerings into
    new industries, we also seek to extend our patent development
    efforts to patent such product offerings. Established
    competitors in existing and new industries, as well as companies
    that purchase and enforce patents and other intellectual
    property, may already have patents covering similar products.
    There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents
    covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain
    licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.

The majority of the software that
    we distribute, including software embedded in our component- and
    system-level products, is entitled to copyright protection. To
    distinguish Intel products from our competitors  products,
    we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our
    products, and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with
    certain customers to promote our brands and to identify products
    containing genuine Intel components. We also protect certain
    details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade
    secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We have ongoing
    programs designed to maintain the confidentiality of such
    information.

Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations  

Our compliance efforts focus on
    monitoring regulatory and resource trends and setting
    company-wide performance targets for key resources and
    emissions. These targets address several parameters, including
    product design; chemical, energy, and water use; climate change;
    waste recycling; and emissions.

Intel focuses on reducing natural
    resource use, the solid and chemical waste by-products of our
    manufacturing processes, and the environmental impact of our
    products. We currently use a variety of materials in our
    manufacturing process that have the potential to adversely
    impact the environment and are subject to a variety of EHS laws
    and regulations. For example, lead and halogenated materials
    (such as certain flame retardants and plastics) have been used
    by the electronics industry for decades. Finding suitable
    replacements has been a technical challenge for the industry,
    and we have worked for years with our suppliers and others in
    the industry to develop lead-free and halogen-free solutions.

We work with the U.S.
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), non-governmental
    organizations, OEMs, and retailers to help manage
     e-waste 
    (which includes electronic products nearing the end of their
    useful lives) and promote recycling. The European Union requires
    producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to
    develop programs that allow consumers to return products for
    recycling. Many states in the U.S. have similar
     e-waste 
    take-back laws. The inconsistency of many
     e-waste 
    take-back laws and the lack of local
     e-waste 
    management options in many areas pose a challenge for our
    compliance efforts. To mitigate these problems, we work with our
    distributors to provide recycling options for our products.

13

Table of Contents   

Intel seeks to reduce our global
    greenhouse gas emissions by investing in energy conservation
    projects in our factories and working with suppliers to improve
    energy efficiency. We take a holistic approach to power
    management, addressing the challenge at the silicon, package,
    circuit, micro/macro architecture, platform, and software
    levels. We recognize that climate change may cause general
    economic risk. For additional information on the risks of
    climate change, see  Risk Factors  in Item 1A of
    this
     Form 10-K. 
    We routinely monitor energy costs to understand the long-range
    impacts that rising costs may have on our business. We see the
    potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change
    regulations. This could include items applied to utilities that
    are passed along to customers, such as carbon taxes or costs
    associated with emission cap and trade programs or renewable
    portfolio standards. In particular, regulations associated with
    the Western Climate Initiative could have an impact on our
    company, because a number of our large manufacturing facilities
    are located in the western United States. Similarly, our
    operations in Ireland are already subject to the European
    Union s mandatory cap and trade scheme for global-warming
    emissions. All of our sites also may be impacted by utility
    programs directed by legislation, regulatory, or other pressures
    that are targeted to pass costs through to users.

We maintain business recovery
    plans that are intended to ensure our ability to recover from
    natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our
    business. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid
    regions, such as Israel and the southwestern United States. Some
    climate change scenarios predict that such regions can become
    even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate
    change. We have had an aggressive water conservation program in
    place for many years. We believe that our water conservation and
    recovery programs will help reduce our risk if water
    availability becomes more constrained in the future. We further
    maintain long-range plans to identify potential future water
    conservation actions that we can take.

We are committed to sustainability
    and take a leadership position in promoting voluntary
    environmental initiatives and working proactively with
    governments, environmental groups, and industry to promote
    global environmental sustainability. We believe that technology
    will be fundamental to finding solutions to the world s
    environmental challenges, and we are joining forces with
    industry, business, and governments to find and promote ways
    that technology can be used as a tool to combat climate change.

For several years, we have been
    evaluating  green  design standards and incorporating
    green building concepts and practices into the construction of
    our buildings. We are in the process of obtaining Leadership in
    Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for an
    office building under construction in Israel and a newly
    constructed fabrication building in Arizona. We have been
    purchasing wind power and other forms of renewable energy at
    some of our major sites for several years. At the beginning of
    2008, we announced plans to purchase renewable energy
    certificates under a multi-year contract. The purchase placed
    Intel at the top of the EPA s Green Power Partnership for
    2008. The purchase was intended to help stimulate the market for
    green power, leading to additional generating capacity and,
    ultimately, lower costs.

14

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

The following sets forth certain
    information with regard to our executive officers as of
    February 20, 2009 (ages are as of December 27, 2008):

15

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS  

Fluctuations
    in demand for our products may harm our financial results and
    are difficult to forecast.   

Current uncertainty in global
    economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy, as
    consumers and businesses have deferred and may continue to defer
    purchases in response to tighter credit and less discretionary
    spending, which negatively affect product demand and other
    related matters. If demand for our products fluctuates as a
    result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue
    and gross margin could be harmed. Important factors that could
    cause demand for our products to fluctuate include:

changes in business and economic
    conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry
     and/or  the
    overall economy;

changes in consumer confidence
    caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the
    credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices;

changes in the level of
    customers  components inventory;

competitive pressures, including
    pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products,
    chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing
    programs;

changes in customer product needs;

strategic actions taken by our
    competitors; and

market acceptance of our products.

If product demand decreases, our
    manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be
    under-utilized, and we may be required to record an impairment
    on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as
    well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In
    addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast
    demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory
    or record under-utilization charges, which would have a negative
    impact on our gross margin. Factory-planning decisions may
    shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including
    facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate
    depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we
    may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test
    capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in
    demand for our products, and changes in our customers 
    product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our
    competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain
    cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our
    gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments
    of our assets.

The
    recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.   

The recent financial crisis
    affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going
    concern threats to financial institutions have resulted in a
    tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in
    many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed
    income, and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on
    effects from the credit crisis on Intel s business,
    including insolvency of key suppliers, resulting in product
    delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance
    purchases of our products
     and/or 
    customer insolvencies; counterparty failures negatively
    impacting our treasury operations; increased expense or
    inability to obtain short-term financing of Intel s
    operations from the issuance of commercial paper; and increased
    impairment charges due to declines in the fair values of
    marketable debt or equity investments. The current volatility in
    the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase
    the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our
    debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the
    fair values currently assigned to them.

The
    semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a
    high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable
    and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.   

The semiconductor industry and our
    operations are characterized by high costs, such as those
    related to facility construction and equipment, R D, and
    employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are
    either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. At the
    same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there
    have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product
    cycles as well as downturns in general economic market
    conditions, such as the current economic environment. These
    downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand,
    manufacturing overcapacity and resulting excess capacity
    charges, high inventory levels, and lower average selling
    prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue,
    gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly
    in both the short and long term.

16

Table of Contents   

We
    operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to
    respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate
    new features into our products could harm our ability to
    compete.   

We operate in intensely
    competitive industries that experience rapid technological
    developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer
    requirements, and frequent new product introductions and
    improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and
    successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive
    position, and our products or technologies may become
    uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must
    maintain a successful R D effort, develop new products and
    production processes, and improve our existing products and
    processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may
    not be able to develop and market these new products
    successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be
    well received by customers, and products developed and new
    technologies offered by others may affect demand for our
    products. These types of events could have a variety of negative
    effects on our competitive position and our financial results,
    such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our
    gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize
    impairments on our assets.

We may
    be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our
    business.   

We may be subject to legal claims
    or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer,
    competition, and other issues on a global basis. As described in
     Note 24: Contingencies  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
    we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters,
    particularly with respect to competition. Litigation is subject
    to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur.
    An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in
    cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction
    prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more
    products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a
    matter, our business and results of operations could be
    materially harmed.

We
    invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a
    return on our investments.   

We make investments in companies
    around the world to further our strategic objectives and support
    our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or
    debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of
    these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial
    investment. These companies range from early-stage companies
    that are often still defining their strategic direction to more
    mature companies with established revenue streams and business
    models. The success of these companies is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and
    other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may
    fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding,
    obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take
    advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers,
    and private sales. The current economic environment may increase
    the risk of failure for many of the companies in which we invest
    due to limited access to credit and reduced frequency of
    liquidity events. If any of these private companies fail, we
    could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we
    determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value
    exists for an equity investment in a public or private company
    in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its
    fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment
    loss. The majority of our non-marketable equity investment
    portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash
    memory market segment and wireless connectivity market segment,
    and declines in these market segments or changes in
    management s plans with respect to our investments in these
    market segments could result in significant impairment charges,
    impacting gains/losses on equity method investments and
    gains/losses on other equity investments.

Furthermore, when the strategic
    objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the
    investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives,
    we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our non-marketable
    equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we
    may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable
    terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could
    harm our results of operations. Additionally, for cases in which
    we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a
    proportionate share of another company s income or loss,
    such income and loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses
    from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on
    gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities,
    gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment
    charges related to debt instruments as well as equity and other
    investments.

Our
    results of operations could vary as a result of the methods,
    estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting
    policies.   

The methods, estimates, and
    judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a
    significant impact on our results of operations (see
     Critical Accounting Estimates  in Part II,
    Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K). 
    Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature,
    subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions,
    and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our
    methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods,
    estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results
    of operations. The current volatility in the financial markets
    and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the
    actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity
    investments will differ significantly from the fair values
    currently assigned to them.

17

Table of Contents   

Fluctuations
    in the mix of products sold may harm our financial
    results.   

Because of the wide price
    differences among and within mobile, desktop, and server
    microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities
    of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our
    products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross
    margin. Our financial results also depend in part on the mix of
    other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and
    other semiconductor products. In addition, more recently
    introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because
    of initial overall development and production ramp. Fluctuations
    in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent
    to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments
    associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm
    our financial results.

Our
    global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results
    of operations and financial condition.   

We have sales offices, R D,
    manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many
    countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated
    with doing business globally. Our global operations may be
    subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture,
    assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in
    particular countries, which could, in turn, harm our results of
    operations and financial condition, including:

security concerns, such as armed
    conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political
    instability, and terrorist activity;

health concerns;

natural disasters;

inefficient and limited
    infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or
    interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications
    providers and supply chain interruptions;

differing employment practices and
    labor issues;

local business and cultural
    factors that differ from our normal standards and practices;

regulatory requirements and
    prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and

restrictions on our operations by
    governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization
    of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    earnings.

In addition, although most of our
    products are sold in U.S. dollars, we incur a significant amount
    of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax,
    and marketing expenses, as well as certain investing and
    financing activities, in local currencies. Our hedging programs
    reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange
    rates could harm our business operating results and financial
    condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations
    and in U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial
    condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue.
    Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our
    operating results and financial condition by increasing our
    overall tax rate.

We maintain a program of insurance
    coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other
    risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in
    numerous jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that
    we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location,
    depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect
    to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and
    exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a
    self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be
    substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our
    results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the
    recent financial crisis could pose solvency risks for our
    insurers, which could reduce our coverage if one or more of our
    insurance providers is unable to pay a claim.

Failure
    to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or
    oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of
    operations.   

Production of integrated circuits
    is a complex process. Disruptions in this process can result
    from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in
    our development and implementation of new processes; defects in
    materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources;
    and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test
    facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues,
    or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the
    timing of production ramps and yields. We may not be successful
    or efficient in developing or implementing new production
    processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in
    our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting
    in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could
    affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific
    product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of
    certain products could make it more difficult to implement our
    platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A
    substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory
    levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges
    as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence
    of any of these events could harm our business and results of
    operations.

18

Table of Contents   

We may
    have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need
    for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or
    operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our
    ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our
    costs.   

We have thousands of suppliers
    providing various materials that we use in the production of our
    products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where
    possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those
    materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number
    of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these
    materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate
    supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt
    our production processes or could make it more difficult for us
    to implement our business strategy. In addition, production
    could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used
    in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases.
    The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or
    resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce
    production of products or may require us to incur additional
    costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials
    or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm
    our business and results of operations.

Costs
    related to product defects and errata may harm our results of
    operations and business.   

Costs associated with unexpected
    product defects and errata (deviations from published
    specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in
    our manufacturing processes, include:

writing off the value of inventory
    of defective products;

disposing of defective products
    that cannot be fixed;

recalling defective products that
    have been shipped to customers;

providing product replacements
    for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or

defending against litigation
    related to defective products.

These costs could be substantial
    and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross
    margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users
    of our products could be damaged as a result of such product
    defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be
    reduced. These factors could harm our financial results and the
    prospects for our business.

We may
    be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual
    property rights, which could harm our business.   

From time to time, third parties
    may assert against us or our customers alleged patent,
    copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to
    technologies that are important to our business. As described in
     Note 24: Contingencies  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
    we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters
    involving intellectual property rights. We may be subject to
    intellectual property infringement claims from certain
    individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios
    for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other
    companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe
    the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the
    merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur
    significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving
    such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our
    management and technical personnel from our business. As a
    result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we
    could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to:

pay third-party infringement
    claims;

discontinue manufacturing, using,
    or selling particular products subject to infringement claims;

discontinue using the technology
    or processes subject to infringement claims;

develop other technology not
    subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming
    and costly or may not be possible; and/or

license technology from the third
    party claiming infringement, which license may not be available
    on commercially reasonable terms.

The occurrence of any of the
    foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to
    recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the
    value of our assets and increase expenses. In addition, if we
    alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our
    revenue could be harmed.

19

Table of Contents   

We may
    not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property
    rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our
    business.   

Our ability to enforce our
    patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual
    property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well
    as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual
    property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce
    our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual
    property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is
    licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In
    addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often
    results in the other party seeking to assert alleged
    intellectual property rights of its own against us. If we are
    not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these
    claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular
    product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may
    have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of
    operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations or
    courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of
    intellectual property to others, or governments may require that
    products meet specified standards that serve to favor local
    companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property
    rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive
    position and our business.

Our
    licenses with other companies and our participation in industry
    initiatives may allow other companies, including our
    competitors, to use our patent rights.   

Companies in the semiconductor
    industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each
    other in order to compete. Many of our competitors have broad
    licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law,
    some of these licenses may permit these competitors to pass our
    patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a
    foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent
    rights in manufacturing competing products. In addition, our
    participation in industry initiatives may require us to license
    our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry
    standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not
    adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result,
    our patents implicated by our participation in industry
    initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against
    others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those
    patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our
    patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property
    may be impaired.

Changes
    in our decisions with regard to restructuring and efficiency
    efforts, and other factors, could affect our results of
    operations and financial condition.    

Factors that could cause actual
    results to differ materially from our expectations with regard
    to restructuring actions include:

timing and execution of plans and
    programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements,
    including consultation with appropriate work councils;

changes in assumptions related to
    severance and postretirement costs;

future dispositions;

new business initiatives and
    changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing;

changes in employment levels and
    turnover rates;

changes in product demand and the
    business environment, including changes related to the current
    uncertainty in global economic conditions; and

changes in the fair value of
    certain long-lived assets.

In
    order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key
    employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of
    operations.   

In order to compete, we must
    attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key
    employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives,
    scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales
    representatives are critical to our business, and competition
    for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be
    intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified
    employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee
    stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock
    units). If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as
    measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or
    if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as
    a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate
    employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of
    operations.

20

Table of Contents   

Our
    failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of
    operations.   

The manufacturing and assembling
    and testing of our products require the use of hazardous
    materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and
    regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable
    laws or regulations could result in:

regulatory penalties, fines, and
    legal liabilities;

suspension of production;

alteration of our fabrication and
    assembly and test processes; and

curtailment of our operations or
    sales.

In addition, our failure to manage
    the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage,
    recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us
    to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future
    environmental laws and regulations could also require us to
    acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our
    product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such
    laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating
    for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under
    existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may
    restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our
    manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. Any of
    these restrictions could harm our business and results of
    operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter
    our manufacturing and assembly and test processes.

Climate
    change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm
    our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our
    business.   

In addition to the possible direct
    economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate
    change mitigation programs and regulation can increase our
    costs. For example, the cost of perfluorocompounds (PFCs), a gas
    that we use in our manufacturing, could increase over time under
    some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may
    be imposed by government regulation. If the use of PFCs is
    prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that
    may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing
    operations. We also see the potential for higher energy costs
    driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase
    if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those
    associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs,
    or renewable portfolio standards. While we maintain business
    recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from
    natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our
    business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us
    from all such disasters or events. Many of our operations are
    located in semi-arid regions, such as Israel and the
    southwestern United States. Some scenarios predict that these
    regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts
    due to climate change.

Changes
    in our effective tax rate may harm our results of
    operations.   

A number of factors may increase
    our future effective tax rates, including:

the jurisdictions in which profits
    are determined to be earned and taxed;

the resolution of issues arising
    from tax audits with various tax authorities;

changes in the valuation of our
    deferred tax assets and liabilities;

adjustments to income taxes upon
    finalization of various tax returns;

increases in expenses not
    deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired
    in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill
    in connection with acquisitions;

changes in available tax credits;

changes in tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally
    accepted accounting principles; and

our decision to repatriate
     non-U.S. earnings 
    for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes.

Any significant increase in our
    future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future
    periods.

21

Table of Contents   

Interest
    and other, net could be harmed by macroeconomic and other
    factors.   

Factors that could cause interest
    and other, net in our consolidated statements of income to
    fluctuate include:

fixed-income, equity, and credit
    market volatility, such as that which is being experienced in
    the current global economic environment;

fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates;

fluctuations in interest rates;

changes in our cash and investment
    balances; and

changes in our hedge accounting
    treatment.

Our
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt
    our ongoing business and harm our results of
    operations.   

In pursuing our business strategy,
    we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and
    enter into agreements regarding possible investments,
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as
    joint ventures. Acquisitions and other transactions involve
    significant challenges and risks, including risks that:

we may not be able to identify
    suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us;

the transaction may not advance
    our business strategy;

we may not realize a satisfactory
    return on the investment we make;

we may not be able to retain key
    personnel of the acquired business; or

we may experience difficulty in
    integrating new employees, business systems, and technology.

When we decide to sell assets or a
    business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing
    divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on
    acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and
    financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in
    business or market conditions. These circumstances could delay
    the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to
    incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we
    want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price
    or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated,
    resulting in a loss on the transaction.

If we do enter into agreements
    with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other
    transactions, we may fail to complete them due to:

failure to obtain required
    regulatory or other approvals;

intellectual property or other
    litigation;

difficulties that we or other
    parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the
    transaction; or

other factors.

Further, acquisitions,
    divestitures, and other transactions require substantial
    management resources and have the potential to divert our
    attention from our existing business. These factors could harm
    our business and results of operations.

22

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES  

As of December 27, 2008, our
    major facilities consisted of:

1   

Leases on portions of the land used for these facilities
    expire at varying dates through 2062.  

2   

Leases expire at varying dates through 2028 and generally
    include renewals at our option.  

Our principal executive offices
    are located in the U.S. The majority of our wafer
    fabrication activities are also located in the U.S. Outside
    the U.S., we have wafer fabrication at our facilities in Ireland
    and Israel. In addition, we are building a new wafer fabrication
    facility in China. Our assembly and test facilities are located
    overseas, specifically in Malaysia, China, Costa Rica, and the
    Philippines. We are building a new assembly and test facility in
    Vietnam that is expected to begin production in 2010. In
    addition, we have sales and marketing offices worldwide. These
    facilities are generally located near major concentrations of
    users.

We have placed for sale certain
    facilities (see  Note 15: Restructuring and Asset
    Impairment Charges  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K). 
    Additionally, subsequent to the end of 2008, management approved
    plans to restructure some of our manufacturing and assembly and
    test operations, and align our manufacturing and assembly and
    test capacity to current market conditions. These actions, which
    are expected to take place beginning in 2009, include closing
    two assembly and test facilities in Malaysia, one facility in
    the Philippines, and one facility in China; stopping production
    at a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Oregon; and ending
    production at our 200mm wafer fabrication facility in
    California. Except for these facilities, we believe that our
    existing facilities are suitable and adequate. We recorded
    under-utilization charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a
    result of our decision to reduce our facility loadings at
    certain facilities, due to a significant decrease in demand. We
    expect to continue to have under-utilization charges in 2009;
    however, we do plan to utilize the productive capacity of these
    facilities in the future.

We do not identify or allocate
    assets by operating segment. For information on net property,
    plant and equipment by country, see  Note 25:
    Operating Segment and Geographic Information  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

ITEM 3. LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

For a discussion of legal
    proceedings, see  Note 24: Contingencies  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

None.

23

Table of Contents   

PART
    II  

ITEM
    5.   

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Information regarding the market
    price range of Intel common stock and dividend information may
    be found in  Financial Information by Quarter
    (Unaudited)  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

In 2008, during the first quarter
    we paid a cash dividend of $0.1275 per common share, and during
    the second, third, and fourth quarters we paid a cash dividend
    of $0.14 per common share, for a total of $0.5475 for the year
    ($0.1125 each quarter during 2007 for a total of $0.45 for the
    year). We have paid a cash dividend in each of the past 65
    quarters. In January 2009, our Board of Directors declared a
    cash dividend of $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of
    2009. The dividend is payable on March 1, 2009 to stockholders
    of record on February 7, 2009.

As of February 6, 2009, there were
    approximately 180,000 registered holders of record of
    Intel s common stock. A substantially greater number of
    holders of Intel common stock are  street name  or
    beneficial holders, whose shares are held of record by banks,
    brokers, and other financial institutions.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

We have an ongoing authorization,
    amended in November 2005, from our Board of Directors to
    repurchase up to $25 billion in shares of our common stock in
    open market or negotiated transactions. As of December 27, 2008,
    $7.4 billion remained available for repurchase under the
    existing repurchase authorization. A portion of our purchases in
    2008 was executed under privately negotiated forward purchase
    agreements. In the third quarter of 2008, we executed a forward
    purchase agreement with Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc.
    (Lehman Brothers) in which we prepaid $1.0 billion and received
    an equivalent $1.0 billion of cash collateral from Lehman
    Brothers. However, in the fourth quarter, Lehman Brothers failed
    to deliver shares of Intel common stock, and we foreclosed on
    the $1.0 billion collateral.

Common stock repurchases under our
    authorized plan in each quarter of 2008 were as follows (in
    millions, except per share amounts):

We did not make any common stock
    repurchases under our authorized plan during the fourth quarter
    of 2008.

For the majority of restricted
    stock units granted, the number of shares issued on the date the
    restricted stock units vest is net of the statutory withholding
    requirements that we pay on behalf of our employees. These
    withheld shares are not included in the common stock repurchase
    totals in the tables above. For further discussion, see
     Note 20: Common Stock Repurchases  in Part II, Item 8
    of this Form
     10-K. 

24

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Performance Graph  

The line graph below compares the
    cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the
    cumulative total return of the Dow Jones Technology Index and
    the Standard   Poor s (S P) 500 Index for the
    five fiscal years ended December 27, 2008. The graph and table
    assume that $100 was invested on December 26, 2003 (the last day
    of trading for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2003) in each
    of our common stock, the Dow Jones Technology Index, and the
    S P 500 Index, and that all dividends were reinvested.
    Cumulative total stockholder returns for our common stock, the
    Dow Jones Technology Index, and the S P 500 Index are based
    on our fiscal year.

Comparison
    of Five-Year Cumulative Return for Intel, 
    the Dow Jones Technology Index, and the S P 500
    Index  

25

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    6.   

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

1   

We started recognizing the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R)
    beginning in fiscal year 2006. See  Note 2: Accounting
    Policies  and  Note 19: Employee Equity Incentive
    Plans  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K.   

The ratio of earnings to fixed
    charges for each of the five years in the period ended December
    27, 2008 was as follows:

Fixed charges consist of interest
    expense, capitalized interest, and the estimated interest
    component of rent expense.

26

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    7.   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

Our Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (MD A) is provided in addition to the accompanying
    consolidated financial statements and notes to assist readers in
    understanding our results of operations, financial condition,
    and cash flows. MD A is organized as follows:

Overview.    Discussion
    of our business and overall analysis of financial and other
    highlights affecting the company in order to provide context for
    the remainder of MD A.

Strategy.    Overall
    strategy and the strategy for our operating segments.

Critical Accounting
    Estimates.    Accounting
    estimates that we believe are important to understanding the
    assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial
    results and forecasts.

Results of
    Operations.    Analysis
    of our financial results comparing 2008 to 2007 and comparing
    2007 to 2006.

Liquidity and Capital
    Resources.    An
    analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and
    discussion of our financial condition including the credit
    quality of our investment portfolio and potential sources of
    liquidity.

Fair
    value.    Discussion
    of the methodologies used in the valuation of our financial
    instruments.

Contractual Obligations and
    Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements.    Overview
    of contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and
    commitments outstanding as of December 27, 2008, including
    expected payment schedule, and explanation of off-balance-sheet
    arrangements.

Business
    Outlook.    Our
    expectations for selected financial items for the 2009 fiscal
    year.

The various sections of this
    MD A contain a number of forward-looking statements. Words
    such as  expects,   goals, 
     plans,   believes,   continues, 
     may,  and variations of such words and similar
    expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking
    statements. In addition, any statements that refer to
    projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated
    growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations
    of future events or circumstances are forward-looking
    statements. Such statements are based on our current
    expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk
    factors described throughout this filing and particularly in the
     Business Outlook  section (see also  Risk
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form
     10-K).  Our
    actual results may differ materially, and these
     forward-looking 
    statements do not reflect the potential impact of any
    divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business
    combinations that had not been completed as of February 18, 2009.

Overview  

Our goal is to be the preeminent
    provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide
    digital economy. Our primary component-level products include
    microprocessors, chipsets, and flash memory.

Net revenue, gross margin,
    operating income, and net income for 2008 and 2007 were as
    follows:

The slowing of the worldwide
    economy resulted in a weak fourth quarter. The pace of the
    revenue decline in the fourth quarter was dramatic and resulted
    from reduced demand and inventory contraction across the supply
    chain. The 19% sequential decline from the third quarter of 2008
    to the fourth quarter of 2008 was only the second time in the
    last 20 years that our fourth-quarter revenue fell below our
    third-quarter revenue. It is unclear when a turnaround may
    occur, and there remains a high degree of uncertainty around
    demand, which may continue to decline. However, we believe that
    our competitive position, manufacturing process technologies,
    cash flow from operations, and balance sheet remain strong, and
    that we are well positioned to manage through this economic
    downturn.

We continue to invest in our
    leading-edge technologies and growth initiatives in order to
    strengthen our competitive position and enter new market
    segments. We have a strong belief that technology companies
    successfully emerge from recessions with tomorrow s
    products, not today s products. In 2008, we introduced the
    Intel Atom processor family, which is designed to enable new
    mobile Internet form factors at attractive system price points.
    Our product offerings continue to strengthen, with the launch of
    our new microarchitecture, code-named  Nehalem,  in
    the fourth quarter of 2008. Additionally, we expect to begin
    manufacturing products using our next-generation 32nm process
    technology in the second half of 2009, which we believe will
    increase performance and energy efficiency, and lower product
    costs.

27

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Our gross margin toward the end of
    the year was impacted by approximately $250 million of factory
    under-utilization charges as well as inventory write-offs on
    computing-related products, which were primarily demand-related.
    The under-utilization charges were a result of our decision to
    reduce factory loadings at the end of the fourth quarter in
    response to the drop-off in demand. As a result, factory
     under-utilization 
    charges are expected to increase significantly in the first
    quarter, impacting our gross margin. We also expect our gross
    margin to be negatively impacted as our
     start-up 
    costs associated with our 32nm process technology increase and
    as we transition 32nm design resources from research and
    development to manufacturing. Additionally, changes in demand
    levels and pricing of products could impact inventory
    write-offs, mix, and unit costs, creating additional variability
    in margin. Despite reducing our factory loadings, we increased
    our inventory in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to lower than
    expected demand and inventory reductions in the supply chain. We
    expect further reduction in the supply chain inventory levels in
    the first quarter of 2009 as our customers manage their business
    through the current economic uncertainty. Subsequent to the end
    of 2008, management approved plans to restructure some of our
    manufacturing and assembly and test operations, and align our
    manufacturing and assembly and test capacity to current market
    conditions. These actions, which are expected to take place
    beginning in 2009, include closing two assembly and test
    facilities in Malaysia, one facility in the Philippines, and one
    facility in China; stopping production at a 200mm wafer
    fabrication facility in Oregon; and ending production at our
    200mm wafer fabrication facility in California.

We continue to focus on our
    commitment to efficiency and controlling spending. We have
    reduced our headcount by over 2,000 from the end of 2007 and
    nearly 20,000 from our highest levels during 2006. During 2008,
    we had additional divestitures of non-strategic businesses and
    divested our NOR flash memory business. Also, in a joint
    decision with Micron, we discontinued the supply of NAND flash
    memory from a 200mm facility within the IMFT manufacturing
    network, which resulted in restructuring charges of $215 million.

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we
    made a $1.0 billion investment in Clearwire LLC, adding to our
    pre-existing investments. However, we recorded an impairment of
    our investments in the new Clearwire Corporation and Clearwire
    LLC of $938 million, primarily due to the fair value being
    significantly lower than the cost basis of our investments.

From a financial condition
    perspective, we ended 2008 with an investment portfolio valued
    at $14.5 billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents and
    marketable debt instruments included in trading assets and
    short- and long-term investments. In addition, we generated
    $10.9 billion in cash from operations in 2008. The credit
    quality of our investment portfolio remains high during this
    difficult credit environment, with other-than-temporary
    impairments on our available-for-sale investments in debt
    instruments limited to $44 million during 2008. In addition, we
    continue to be able to invest in high-quality investments.
    However, we have seen a reduction in the volume of available
    commercial paper from certain market segments. As a result, our
    investments in short-term government funds have increased, which
    will reduce our average investment return. Despite the
    tightening of the credit markets, we continue to be able to
    access funds through the credit markets, including through the
    issuance of commercial paper. With the exception of a limited
    amount of investments for which we have recognized
    other-than-temporary impairments, we have not seen significant
    liquidation delays, and for those that have matured we have
    received the full par value of our original debt investments.
    For additional details on our investment portfolio, see
     Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

During 2008, we repurchased $7.1
    billion of stock through our stock repurchase program and paid
    $3.1 billion to stockholders as dividends. In the fourth quarter
    of 2008, we did not repurchase additional stock, as we felt that
    it was better to conserve cash, given the economic environment.
    In January 2009, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of
    $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of 2009.

28

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Strategy  

Our goal is to be the preeminent
    provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide
    digital economy. As part of our overall strategy to compete in
    each relevant market segment, we use our core competencies in
    the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, as well as
    our financial resources, global presence, and brand recognition.
    We believe that we have the scale, capacity, and global reach to
    establish new technologies and respond to customers  needs
    quickly.

Some of our key focus areas are
    listed below:

Customer
    Orientation.    Our
    strategy focuses on developing our next generation of products
    based on the needs and expectations of our customers. In turn,
    our products help enable the design and development of new form
    factors and usage models for businesses and consumers. We offer
    platforms that incorporate various components designed and
    configured to work together to provide an optimized user
    computing solution compared to components that are used
    separately.

Architecture and
    Platforms.    We are
    developing integrated platform solutions by moving the memory
    controller and graphics functionality from the chipset to the
    microprocessor. This platform repartitioning is designed to
    provide improved performance due to higher integration, lower
    power consumption, and reduced platform size. In addition, we
    are focusing on improved
     energy-efficient 
    performance for computing and communications systems and
    devices. Improved energy-efficient performance involves
    balancing improved performance with lower power consumption. We
    continue to develop multi-core microprocessors with an
    increasing number of cores, which enable improved multitasking
    and energy efficiency. We are also focusing on the development
    of a new highly scalable, many-core architecture aimed at
    parallel processing. This architecture will initially be used in
    developing discrete graphics processors designed for gaming and
    media creation. Over time, this architecture may be utilized in
    the development of products for scientific and professional
    workstations as well as high-performance computing applications.

Silicon and Manufacturing
    Technology
    Leadership.    Our
    strategy for developing microprocessors with improved
    performance is to synchronize the introduction of a new
    microarchitecture with improvements in silicon process
    technology. We plan to introduce a new microarchitecture
    approximately every two years and ramp the next generation of
    silicon process technology in the intervening years. This
    coordinated schedule allows us to develop and introduce new
    products based on a common microarchitecture quickly, without
    waiting for the next generation of silicon process technology.
    We refer to this as our  tick-tock  technology
    development cadence.

Strategic
    Investments.    We
    make equity investments in companies around the world that we
    believe will generate returns, further our strategic objectives,
    and support our key business initiatives. Our investments,
    including those made through our Intel Capital program,
    generally focus on investing in companies and initiatives to
    stimulate growth in the digital economy, create new business
    opportunities for Intel, and expand global markets for our
    products. Our current investments focus on the following areas:
    advancing flash memory products, enabling mobile wireless
    devices, advancing the digital home, enhancing the digital
    enterprise, advancing high-performance communications
    infrastructures, and developing the next generation of silicon
    process technologies. Our focus areas and investment activities
    tend to develop and change over time due to rapid advancements
    in technology and changes in the economic climate.

Business Environment and
    Software.    We
    believe that we are well positioned in the technology industry
    to help drive innovation, foster collaboration, and promote
    industry standards that will yield innovation and improved
    technologies for users. We plan to continue to cultivate new
    businesses and work to encourage the industry to offer products
    that take advantage of the latest market trends and usage
    models. We frequently participate in industry initiatives
    designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and
    other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards
    by standards-setting organizations. In addition, we work
    collaboratively with other companies to protect digital content
    and the consumer. Lastly, through our Software and Services
    Group (SSG), we help enable and advance the computing ecosystem
    by providing development tools and support to help software
    developers create software applications and operating systems
    that take advantage of our platforms.

We believe that the proliferation
    of the Internet, including user demand for premium content and
    rich media, drives the need for greater performance in PCs and
    servers. A growing number of older PCs are increasingly
    incapable of handling the tasks that users demand, such as
    streaming video, uploading photos, and online gaming. As these
    tasks become even more demanding and require more computing
    power, we believe that users will need and want to buy new PCs
    to perform everyday tasks on the Internet. We also believe that
    increased Internet traffic creates a need for greater server
    infrastructure, including server products optimized for
    energy-efficient performance.

29

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The trend of mobile microprocessor
    unit growth outpacing the growth in desktop microprocessor units
    has continued, and shipments of our mobile microprocessors
    exceeded our desktop microprocessors for the first time in the
    second quarter of 2008. We believe that the demand for mobile
    microprocessors will result in the increased development of
    products with form factors and uses that require low-power
    microprocessors.

Our silicon and manufacturing
    technology leadership allows us to develop low-power
    microprocessors for new uses and form factors. We believe that
    these low-power microprocessors give us the ability to extend
    Intel architecture and drive growth in new market segments,
    including a growing number of products that require processors
    specifically designed for embedded solutions, MIDs, consumer
    electronics devices, nettops, and netbooks. We believe that the
    common elements for products in these new market segments are
    low power consumption and the ability to access the Internet. We
    also offer, and are continuing to develop, SoC products that
    integrate core processing functionality with specific
    components, such as graphics, audio, and video, onto a single
    chip to form a purpose-built solution. This integration reduces
    cost, power consumption, and size.

Strategy
    by Operating Segment   

We completed a reorganization in
    the second quarter of 2008 that transferred the revenue and
    costs associated with a portion of the Digital Home Group s
    consumer PC components business to the Digital Enterprise Group.
    The Digital Home Group now focuses on the consumer electronics
    components business. The strategy by operating segment presented
    below is based on the new organizational structure.

The strategy for our   Digital
    Enterprise Group   (DEG) is to offer computing and
    communications products for businesses, service providers, and
    consumers. DEG products are incorporated into desktop and nettop
    computers, enterprise computer servers and workstations, and
    products that make up the infrastructure for the Internet. We
    also offer products for embedded designs, such as industrial
    equipment,
     point-of-sale 
    systems, telecommunications, panel PCs, in-vehicle
    information/entertainment systems, and medical equipment. Our
    strategy for the desktop computing market segment is to offer
    products that provide increased manageability, security, and
    energy-efficient performance while at the same time lowering
    total cost of ownership for businesses. For consumers in the
    desktop computing market segment, we also focus on the design of
    components for high-end enthusiast PCs and mainstream PCs with
    rich audio and video capabilities. Our strategy for the nettop
    computing market segment is to offer products that enable
    affordable, Internet-focused devices with small form factors.
    Our strategy for the enterprise computing market segment is to
    offer products that provide energy-efficient performance and
    virtualization technology for server, workstation, and storage
    platforms. We are also increasing our focus on products designed
    for
     high-performance 
    computing, data centers, and blade server systems. Our strategy
    for the embedded computing market segment is to drive Intel
    architecture as an embedded solution by delivering long life
    cycle support, architectural scalability, and platform
    integration.

The strategy for our
      Mobility Group   is to offer notebook PC products
    designed to improve performance, battery life, and wireless
    connectivity, as well as to allow for the design of smaller,
    lighter, and thinner form factors. We are also increasing our
    focus on products designed for the business and consumer
    environments by offering technologies that provide increased
    manageability and security, and we continue to invest in the
    build-out of WiMAX. We also offer, and are continuing to
    develop, products that enable mobile devices to deliver digital
    content and the Internet to users in new ways, including
    products for MIDs and netbooks.

The strategy for our   NAND
    Solutions Group   is to offer advanced NAND flash memory
    products, focusing on system-level solutions for Intel
    architecture platforms such as solid-state drives. Additionally,
    we offer NAND products used in memory cards. In support of our
    strategy to provide advanced flash memory products, we continue
    to focus on the development of innovative products designed to
    address the needs of customers for reliable, non-volatile,
    low-cost, high-density memory.

The strategy for our   Digital
    Home Group   is to offer products and solutions, including
    SoC designs, for use in consumer electronics devices designed to
    access and share Internet, broadcast, optical media, and
    personal content through a variety of linked digital devices
    within the home. We are focusing on the design of components for
    consumer electronics devices, such as digital TVs,
    high-definition media players, and set-top boxes, which receive,
    decode, and convert incoming data signals.

30

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The strategy for our   Digital
    Health Group   is to design and deliver technology-enabled
    products and explore global business opportunities in healthcare
    information technology and healthcare research, as well as
    personal healthcare. In support of this strategy, we are
    focusing on the design of technology solutions and platforms for
    the digital hospital and consumer/home health products.

The strategy for our
      Software and Services Group   is to promote Intel
    architecture as the platform of choice for software and
    services. SSG works with the worldwide software and services
    ecosystem by providing software products, engaging with
    developers, and driving strategic software investments.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The methods, estimates, and
    judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a
    significant impact on the results that we report in our
    financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us
    to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of
    the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently
    uncertain. Our most critical accounting estimates include:

the valuation of non-marketable
    equity investments and the determination of other-than-temporary
    impairments, which impact gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net, or gains (losses) on other equity investments,
    net when we record impairments;

the valuation of investments in
    debt instruments and the determination of other-than-temporary
    impairments, which impact our investment portfolio balance when
    we assess fair value, and interest and other, net when we record
    impairments of
     available-for-sale 
    debt instruments;

the assessment of recoverability
    of long-lived assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or
    operating expenses when we record asset impairments or
    accelerate their depreciation;

the recognition and measurement of
    current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of
    uncertain tax positions), which impact our provision for taxes;
    and

the valuation of inventory, which
    impacts gross margin.

Below, we discuss these policies
    further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We
    also have other policies that we consider key accounting
    policies, such as those for revenue recognition, including the
    deferral of revenue on sales to distributors; however, these
    policies typically do not require us to make estimates or
    judgments that are difficult or subjective.

Non-Marketable
    Equity Investments   

The carrying value of our
    non-marketable equity investment portfolio, excluding equity
    derivatives, totaled $4.1 billion as of December 27,
    2008 ($3.4 billion as of December 29, 2007). The
    majority of the balance as of December 27, 2008 was
    concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment and
    wireless connectivity market segment. Our flash memory market
    segment investments include our investment in IMFT of
    $1.7 billion ($2.2 billion as of December 29,
    2007), our investment in IM Flash Singapore, LLP (IMFS) of
    $329 million ($146 million as of December 29,
    2007), and our investment in Numonyx of $484 million. Our
    wireless connectivity market segment investments include our
    non-marketable investment in Clearwire LLC of $238 million
    (see  Note 5: Available-for-Sale Investments  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information on our additional marketable equity investment
    in the new Clearwire Corporation of $148 million). In
    addition, we regularly invest in non-marketable equity
    instruments of private companies, which range from early-stage
    companies that are often still defining their strategic
    direction to more mature companies with established revenue
    streams and business models. For additional information, see
     Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our non-marketable equity
    investments are recorded using adjusted historical cost basis or
    the equity method of accounting, depending on the facts and
    circumstances of each investment (see  Note 2:
    Accounting Policies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K). 
    Our
     non-marketable 
    equity investments are classified in other long-term assets on
    the consolidated balance sheets.

31

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Non-marketable equity investments
    are inherently risky, and a number of the companies in which we
    invest are likely to fail. Their success is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and
    other key business factors. Depending on their future prospects,
    the companies may not be able to raise additional funds when
    needed or they may receive lower valuations, with less favorable
    investment terms than in previous financings, and our
    investments would likely become impaired. Additionally, the
    current financial markets are extremely volatile and there has
    been a tightening of the credit markets, which could negatively
    affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their
    ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our
    being able to realize value in our investments through liquidity
    events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private
    sales. For further information about our investment portfolio
    risks, including those specific to our investments in the flash
    memory market segment and wireless connectivity market segment,
    see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

We review our investments
    quarterly for indicators of impairment; however, for
    non-marketable equity investments, the impairment analysis
    requires significant judgment to identify events or
    circumstances that would significantly harm the fair value of
    the investment. The indicators that we use to identify those
    events or circumstances primarily include:

the investee s revenue and
    earnings trends relative to predefined milestones and overall
    business prospects;

the technological feasibility of
    the investee s products and technologies;

the general market conditions in
    the investee s industry or geographic area, including
    adverse regulatory or economic changes;

factors related to the
    investee s ability to remain in business, such as the
    investee s liquidity, debt ratios, and the rate at which
    the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of
    additional funding at a lower valuation.

Investments that we identify as
    having an indicator of impairment are subject to further
    analysis to determine if the fair value of the investment is
    below our carrying value. If the fair value of the investment is
    below our carrying value, we determine if the investment is
    other than temporarily impaired based on the severity and
    duration of the impairment. If the investment is considered to
    be other than temporarily impaired, we write down the investment
    to its fair value. Beginning in the first quarter of 2008, the
    assessment of fair value for non-marketable investments is based
    on the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (SFAS) No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements 
    (SFAS No. 157), as amended. With the exception of
    Clearwire LLC, we classified our impaired non-marketable
    investments as Level 3, as we use unobservable inputs to
    the valuation methodology that are significant to the fair value
    measurement, and the valuation requires management judgment due
    to the absence of quoted market prices and inherent lack of
    liquidity. We classified our investment in Clearwire LLC as
    Level 2, as the unobservable inputs to the valuation
    methodology were not significant to the fair value measurement.
    See  Note 3: Fair Value  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Impairments of non-marketable
    equity investments were $1.2 billion in 2008. Over the past
    12 quarters, including the fourth quarter of 2008, impairments
    of non-marketable equity investments have ranged from
    $10 million to $896 million per quarter.

The following is a discussion of
    the methods, estimates, and judgments that management uses in
    our analysis to determine if our
     non-marketable 
    equity investments are other than temporarily impaired.

IMFT/IMFS  

IMFT and IMFS are variable
    interest entities that are designed to manufacture and sell NAND
    products to Intel and Micron at manufacturing cost. Our NAND
    Solutions Group operating segment purchases 49% of these NAND
    products from IMFT and sells them to our customers. As a result,
    we generate cash flows from our investments in IMFT, IMFS, and
    our intangible assets related to the NAND product designs
    through our NAND Solutions Group business. Therefore, we
    determine the fair value of our investments in IMFT and IMFS
    using the income approach, based on a weighted average of
    multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of our NAND Solutions
    Group business.

32

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The discounted cash flow scenarios
    require the use of unobservable inputs, including assumptions of
    projected revenues (including product volume, product mix, and
    average selling prices), expenses, capital spending, and other
    costs, as well as a discount rate. Estimates of projected
    revenues, expenses, capital spending, and other costs are
    developed by IMFT, IMFS, and Intel using historical data and
    available market data. Management also determines how multiple
    discounted cash flow scenarios are weighted in the fair value
    determination. Additionally, the development of several inputs
    used in our income model (such as discount rate and tax rate)
    requires the selection of comparable companies within the NAND
    flash memory market segment. The selection of comparable
    companies requires management judgment and is based on a number
    of factors, including NAND products and services lines within
    the flash memory market segment, comparable companies 
    sizes, growth rates, and other relevant factors. Based on our
    fair value determination, the fair value of our investment in
    IMFT and IMFS approximated carrying value as of
    December 27, 2008.

Changes in management estimates to
    the unobservable inputs would change the valuation of the
    investment. The estimates for the projected revenue and discount
    rate are the assumptions that most significantly affect the fair
    value determination. For example, the impact of a 5% decline in
    projected revenue in each of our cash flow scenarios could
    result in a decline in the fair value of our investment of up to
    approximately $300 million. The impact of a one percentage
    point increase in the discount rate would result in a decline in
    the fair value of our investment of approximately
    $225 million.

The fair value determined by the
    income approach is compared to the carrying value of our
    investments in IMFT and IMFS and our intangible asset related to
    the NAND product designs that we purchased from Micron as part
    of the formation of IMFT. We did not have an
    other-than-temporary impairment on our investments in IMFT and
    IMFS in 2008, 2007, or 2006.

Numonyx  

We determine the fair value of our
    investment in Numonyx using a combination of the income approach
    and the market approach. The income approach includes the use of
    a weighted average of multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of
    Numonyx, which requires the use of unobservable inputs,
    including assumptions of projected revenues, expenses, capital
    spending, and other costs, as well as a discount rate calculated
    based on the risk profile of the flash memory market segment.
    Estimates of projected revenues, expenses, capital spending, and
    other costs are developed by Numonyx and Intel. The market
    approach includes using financial metrics and ratios of
    comparable public companies, such as projected revenues,
    expenses, and other costs. The selection of comparable companies
    used in the market approach requires management judgment and is
    based on a number of factors, including NOR products and
    services lines within the flash memory market segment,
    comparable companies  sizes, growth rates, and other
    relevant factors.

Changes in management estimates to
    the unobservable inputs in our valuation models would change the
    valuation of the investment. The estimated projected revenue is
    the assumption that most significantly affects the fair value
    determination. For example, the impact of a 5% decline in
    projected revenue to each of our models and cash flow scenarios
    could result in a decline in the fair value of our investment of
    up to approximately $140 million. Management judgment is
    involved in determining how the income approach and the market
    approach are weighted in the fair value determination. Our fair
    value determination was more heavily weighted toward the market
    approach due to the comparability of similar companies in the
    market and the availability of market-based data. Increasing the
    relative weighting of the income approach would have resulted in
    a decline in the fair value of our investment by approximately
    $30 million.

We recorded a $250 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx during the third
    quarter of 2008 to write down our investment to its fair value.
    Estimates for revenue, earnings, and future cash flows were
    revised lower due to a general decline in the NOR flash memory
    market segment.

33

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Clearwire
    LLC  

We determine the fair value of our
    investment in Clearwire LLC primarily using the quoted prices of
    its parent company, the new Clearwire Corporation. The effects
    of adjusting the quoted price for premiums that we believe
    market participants would consider for Clearwire LLC, such as
    tax benefits and voting rights associated with our investment,
    were mostly offset by the effects of discounts to the fair
    value, such as those due to transfer restrictions, lack of
    liquidity, and differences in dividend rights that are included
    in the value of the new Clearwire Corporation stock. During the
    fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a $762 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire LLC to write
    down our investment to its fair value, primarily due to the fair
    value being significantly lower than the cost basis of our
    investment.

In addition, during the fourth
    quarter of 2008, we recorded a $176 million impairment
    charge on our available-for-sale marketable investment in the
    new Clearwire Corporation due to the fair value being
    significantly lower than the cost basis of our investment.

Other
    Non-Marketable Equity Investments  

We determine the fair value of our
    other non-marketable equity investments using the market
    approach and/or the income approach. The market approach
    includes the use of financial metrics and ratios of comparable
    public companies. The selection of comparable companies requires
    management judgment and is based on a number of factors,
    including comparable companies  sizes, growth rates,
    products and services lines, development stage, and other
    relevant factors. The income approach includes the use of a
    discounted cash flow model, which requires the following
    significant estimates for the investee: revenue, based on
    assumed market segment size and assumed market segment share;
    estimated costs; and appropriate discount rates based on the
    risk profile of comparable companies. Estimates of market
    segment size, market segment share, and costs are developed by
    the investee
     and/or  Intel
    using historical data and available market data. The valuation
    of our other non-marketable investments also takes into account
    movements of the equity and venture capital markets, recent
    financing activities by the investees, changes in the interest
    rate environment, the investee s capital structure,
    liquidation preferences for the investee s capital, and
    other economic variables. The valuation of some of our
    investments in the wireless connectivity market segment was
    based on the income approach to determine the value of the
    investee s spectrum licenses, transmission towers, and
    customer lists.

We recorded a total of
    $200 million of impairment charges in 2008 on our other
    non-marketable equity investments. Over the past 12 quarters,
    including the fourth quarter of 2008, impairments of our other
    non-marketable equity investments have ranged from
    $10 million to $134 million per quarter.

Investments
    in Debt Instruments   

Fair
    Value  

In the current market environment,
    the assessment of the fair value of debt instruments can be
    difficult and subjective. The volume of trading activity of
    certain debt instruments has declined, and the rapid changes
    occurring in today s financial markets can lead to changes
    in the fair value of financial instruments in relatively short
    periods of time. SFAS No. 157 establishes three levels
    of inputs that may be used to measure fair value (see
     Note 3: Fair Value  in Part II, Item 8
    of this
     Form 10-K). 
    Each level of input has different levels of subjectivity and
    difficulty involved in determining fair value.

Level 1 instruments represent
    quoted prices in active markets. Therefore, determining fair
    value for Level 1 instruments does not require significant
    management judgment, and the estimation is not difficult.

34

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Level 2 instruments include
    observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted
    prices for identical instruments in markets with insufficient
    volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), issuer
    credit ratings, non-binding market consensus prices that can be
    corroborated with observable market data, model-derived
    valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated with observable
    market data for substantially the full term of the assets or
    liabilities, or quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities.
    These Level 2 instruments require more management judgment
    and subjectivity compared to Level 1 instruments, including:

Determining which instruments are
    most similar to the instrument being priced requires management
    to identify a sample of similar securities based on the coupon
    rates, maturity, issuer, credit rating, and instrument type, and
    subjectively select an individual security or multiple
    securities that are deemed most similar to the security being
    priced.

Determining whether a market is
    considered active requires management judgment. Our assessment
    of an active market for our marketable debt instruments
    generally takes into consideration activity during each week of
    the one-month period prior to the valuation date of each
    individual instrument, including the number of days each
    individual instrument trades and the average weekly trading
    volume in relation to the total outstanding amount of the issued
    instrument.

Determining which model-derived
    valuations to use in determining fair value requires management
    judgment. When observable market prices for identical securities
    or similar securities are not available, we price our marketable
    debt instruments using
     non-binding 
    market consensus prices that are corroborated with observable
    market data or pricing models, such as discounted cash flow
    models, with all significant inputs derived from or corroborated
    with observable market data.

Level 3 instruments include
    unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are
    significant to the measurement of fair value of assets or
    liabilities. The determination of fair value for Level 3
    instruments requires the most management judgment and
    subjectivity. Most of our marketable debt instruments classified
    as Level 3 are valued using a non-binding market consensus
    price or a non-binding broker quote, both of which we
    corroborate with unobservable data. Non-binding market consensus
    prices are based on the proprietary valuation models of pricing
    providers or brokers. These valuation models incorporate a
    number of inputs, including non-binding and binding broker
    quotes; observable market prices for identical
     and/or 
    similar securities; and the internal assumptions of pricing
    providers or brokers that use observable market inputs, and to a
    lesser degree non-observable market inputs. Adjustments to the
    fair value of instruments priced using non-binding market
    consensus prices and non-binding broker quotes, and classified
    as Level 3, were not significant in 2008.

Other-Than-Temporary
    Impairment  

After determining the fair value
    of our available-for-sale debt instruments, gains or losses on
    these investments are recorded to other comprehensive income,
    until either the investment is sold or we determine that the
    decline in value is other-than-temporary. Determining whether
    the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary requires
    management judgment based on the specific facts and
    circumstances of each investment. For investments in debt
    instruments, these judgments primarily consider: the financial
    condition and liquidity of the issuer, the issuer s credit
    rating, and any specific events that may cause us to believe
    that the debt instrument will not mature and be paid in full;
    and our ability and intent to hold the investment to maturity.
    Given the current market conditions, these judgments could prove
    to be wrong, and companies with relatively high credit ratings
    and solid financial conditions may not be able to fulfill their
    obligations. In addition, if management decides not to hold an
    investment until maturity, it may result in the recognition of
    an other-than-temporary impairment.

As of December 27, 2008, our
    investments included $11.3 billion of available-for-sale
    debt instruments. During 2008, we recognized $44 million in
    impairment charges on our available-for-sale debt instruments.
    As of December 27, 2008, our cumulative unrealized losses
    related to debt instruments classified as available-for-sale
    were approximately $215 million (approximately
    $55 million as of December 29, 2007). As of
    December 27, 2008, this amount included approximately
    $170 million of unrecognized losses that could be
    recognized in the future if our other-than-temporary assessment
    changes.

35

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Long-Lived
    Assets   

We assess the impairment of
    long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of the assets or the asset
    grouping may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in
    deciding when to perform an impairment review include
    significant under-performance of a business or product line in
    relation to expectations, significant negative industry or
    economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in
    our use of the assets. We measure the recoverability of assets
    that will continue to be used in our operations by comparing the
    carrying value of the asset grouping to our estimate of the
    related total future undiscounted net cash flows. If an asset
    grouping s carrying value is not recoverable through the
    related undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is
    considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by
    comparing the difference between the asset grouping s
    carrying value and its fair value, based on the best information
    available, including market prices or discounted cash flow
    analysis.

Impairments of long-lived assets
    are determined for groups of assets related to the lowest level
    of identifiable independent cash flows. Due to our asset usage
    model and the interchangeable nature of our semiconductor
    manufacturing capacity, we must make subjective judgments in
    determining the independent cash flows that can be related to
    specific asset groupings. In addition, as we make manufacturing
    process conversions and other factory planning decisions, we
    must make subjective judgments regarding the remaining useful
    lives of assets, primarily process-specific semiconductor
    manufacturing tools and building improvements. When we determine
    that the useful lives of assets are shorter than we had
    originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of depreciation
    over the assets  new, shorter useful lives. Over the past
    12 quarters, including the fourth quarter of 2008, impairments
    and accelerated depreciation of long-lived assets ranged from
    $1 million to $320 million per quarter. For further
    discussion on these asset impairment charges, see
     Note 15: Restructuring and Asset Impairment
    Charges  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Long-lived assets such as
    goodwill; intangible assets; and property, plant and equipment
    are considered non-financial assets, and are measured at fair
    value only when indicators of impairment exist. The accounting
    and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 157 are
    effective for these assets beginning in the first quarter of
    2009. For further discussion, see  Note 2: Accounting
    Policies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Income
    Taxes   

We must make certain estimates and
    judgments in determining income tax expense for financial
    statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the
    calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions, and in the
    calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise
    from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and
    expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as the
    interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
    Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase
    or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period.

We must assess the likelihood that
    we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery
    is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by
    recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets
    that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We believe
    that we will ultimately recover a majority of the deferred tax
    assets. However, should there be a change in our ability to
    recover our deferred tax assets, our tax provision would
    increase in the period in which we determined that the recovery
    was not likely. In 2008, we recorded gross additional valuation
    allowances of approximately $270 million, primarily related
    to our anticipated inability to take the full tax benefit of
    impairment charges. Changes in management s plans with
    respect to holding or disposing of investments could affect our
    future provision for taxes.

36

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The calculation of our tax
    liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the
    application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation
    No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes an interpretation of SFAS No. 109, 
    and related guidance, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax
    positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to
    evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the
    weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely
    than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including
    resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any.
    If we determine that a tax position will more likely than not be
    sustained on audit, the second step requires us to estimate and
    measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than
    50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is
    inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as
    we have to determine the probability of various possible
    outcomes. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a
    quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including,
    but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes
    in tax law, settled and effectively settled issues under audit,
    and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or
    measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or
    an additional charge to the tax provision.

Inventory   

The valuation of inventory
    requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as
    inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of
    obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future
    demand for our products. The estimate of future demand is
    compared to work in process and finished goods inventory levels
    to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete or excess
    inventory. As of December 27, 2008, we had total
     work-in-process 
    inventory of $1,577 million and total finished goods
    inventory of $1,559 million. The demand forecast is
    included in the development of our short-term manufacturing
    plans to enable consistency between inventory valuation and
    build decisions. Product-specific facts and circumstances
    reviewed in the inventory valuation process include a review of
    the customer base, the stage of the product life cycle of our
    products, consumer confidence, and customer acceptance of our
    products, as well as an assessment of the selling price in
    relation to the product cost. If our demand forecast for
    specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to
    reduce manufacturing output accordingly, or if we fail to
    forecast the demand accurately, we could be required to write
    off inventory, which would negatively impact our gross margin.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes  

For a description of accounting
    changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the
    expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our
    consolidated financial statements, see  Note 2:
    Accounting Policies  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

37

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Results
    of Operations  

The following table sets forth
    certain consolidated statements of income data as a percentage
    of net revenue for the periods indicated:

The following graphs set forth
    revenue information of geographic regions for the periods
    indicated:

Geographic
    Breakdown of Revenue  

Our net revenue was
    $37.6 billion in 2008, a decrease of 2% compared to 2007.
    Higher revenue from the sale of microprocessors and chipsets was
    more than offset by the impacts of divestitures and lower
    revenue from the sale of motherboards. Revenue from the sale of
    NOR flash memory and cellular baseband products declined
    approximately $1.7 billion, primarily as a result of
    divestiture of these businesses. Revenue in the Americas region
    decreased 4% in 2008 compared to 2007. Revenue in the
    Asia-Pacific, Europe, and Japan regions remained approximately
    flat in 2008 compared to 2007.

38

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Although net revenue for 2008
    declined only slightly from 2007, net revenue for the fourth
    quarter of 2008 declined 19% from the third quarter as customers
    reduced inventory levels to keep pace with the dramatic decline
    in end-user demand that occurred over the course of the quarter.
    It is unclear when a turnaround may occur, and there remains a
    high degree of uncertainty around demand, which may continue to
    decline.

Our overall gross margin dollars
    for 2008 were $20.8 billion, an increase of
    $940 million, or 5%, compared to 2007. Our overall gross
    margin percentage increased to 55.5% in 2008 from 51.9% in 2007.
    The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily
    attributable to the gross margin percentage increase in the
    Digital Enterprise Group operating segment. In addition, our
    gross margin percentage increased due to the divestiture of our
    NOR flash memory business. We derived most of our overall gross
    margin dollars and operating profit in 2008 and 2007 from the
    sale of microprocessors in the Digital Enterprise Group and
    Mobility Group operating segments. See  Business
    Outlook  for a discussion of gross margin expectations.

Our net revenue was
    $38.3 billion in 2007, an increase of 8% compared to 2006.
    Higher microprocessor unit sales were partially offset by lower
    microprocessor average selling prices. Higher mobile chipset
    unit sales also contributed to the increase in net revenue.
    Lower NOR flash memory revenue in 2007 compared to 2006 was
    mostly offset by the ramp of our NAND flash memory business. The
    decrease in NOR flash memory revenue was due to a significant
    decline in average selling prices. Lower royalty revenue was
    offset by higher unit sales. Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region
    increased 11% and revenue in the Europe region increased 10% in
    2007 compared to 2006, and revenue in the Americas region and
    Japan increased 3% in 2007 compared to 2006.

Our overall gross margin dollars
    for 2007 were $19.9 billion, an increase of
    $1.7 billion, or 9%, compared to 2006. Our overall gross
    margin percentage was relatively flat at 51.9% in 2007 compared
    to 51.5% in 2006. The gross margin percentage increase in the
    Digital Enterprise Group operating segment was mostly offset by
    a decrease in the gross margin percentage in the Mobility Group
    operating segment and costs associated with the ramp of our NAND
    flash memory business. We derived most of our overall gross
    margin dollars and operating profit in 2007 and 2006 from the
    sale of microprocessors in the Digital Enterprise Group and
    Mobility Group operating segments.

Digital
    Enterprise Group   

The revenue and operating income
    for the Digital Enterprise Group (DEG) for the three years ended
    December 27, 2008 were as follows:

Net revenue for the DEG operating
    segment decreased by $672 million, or 3%, in 2008 compared
    to 2007. Microprocessors within DEG include those designed for
    the desktop and enterprise computing market segments as well as
    embedded microprocessors. The increase in microprocessor revenue
    was due to higher enterprise microprocessor average selling
    prices and higher embedded microprocessor unit sales, partially
    offset by lower desktop microprocessor unit sales. The decrease
    in chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was primarily due to
    lower motherboard unit sales and lower revenue from the sale of
    communications products. In addition, lower chipset average
    selling prices were partially offset by higher chipset unit
    sales.

Operating income increased by
    $1.2 billion, or 22%, in 2008 compared to 2007. The
    increase in operating income was primarily due to lower desktop
    microprocessor and chipset unit costs. Lower
     start-up 
    costs of approximately $350 million and lower operating
    expenses were partially offset by sales in 2007 of desktop
    microprocessors that had previously been written off and higher
    write-offs of desktop microprocessor inventory in 2008.

39

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

For 2007, net revenue for the DEG
    operating segment increased by $619 million, or 3%,
    compared to 2006. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due
    to higher microprocessor unit sales and higher enterprise
    average selling prices. These increases were partially offset by
    lower desktop average selling prices in a competitive pricing
    environment. The decrease in chipset, motherboard, and other
    revenue was due to lower motherboard unit sales as well as a
    decrease in communications infrastructure revenue, which was
    primarily due to divestitures of certain communications
    infrastructure businesses that were completed in 2006 and 2007.
    Partially offsetting these decreases was higher chipset revenue.

Operating income increased by
    $2.0 billion, or 61%, in 2007 compared to 2006. The
    increase in operating income was primarily due to lower desktop
    microprocessor unit costs and lower operating expenses, and to a
    lesser extent, sales of desktop microprocessor inventory that
    had been previously written off. Partially offsetting these
    increases were higher chipset unit costs and approximately
    $500 million of higher
     start-up 
    costs, primarily related to our 45nm process technology. In
    2007, we began including share-based compensation in the
    computation of operating income (loss) for each operating
    segment and adjusted the 2006 operating segment results to
    reflect this change.

Mobility
    Group   

The revenue and operating income
    for the Mobility Group (MG) for the three years ended
    December 27, 2008 were as follows:

Net revenue for the MG operating
    segment increased by $967 million, or 7%, in 2008 compared
    to 2007. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due to
    significantly higher microprocessor unit sales, which were
    partially offset by significantly lower microprocessor average
    selling prices. A portion of the increase in microprocessor unit
    sales, as well as a portion of the decrease in average selling
    prices, was due to the ramp of Intel Atom processors. The
    increase in chipset and other revenue was primarily due to
    significantly higher chipset unit sales, which were partially
    offset by lower revenue from the sale of cellular baseband
    products. We are winding down the sales from the manufacturing
    agreement entered into as part of the divestiture of the
    cellular baseband business.

Operating income decreased by
    $412 million, or 7%, in 2008 compared to 2007. The decrease
    in operating income was primarily due to higher operating
    expenses, which were partially offset by lower microprocessor
    unit costs.

For 2007, net revenue for the MG
    operating segment increased by $2.4 billion, or 19%,
    compared to 2006. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due
    to a significant increase in unit sales, partially offset by
    significantly lower average selling prices. The increase in
    chipset and other revenue was due to higher unit sales of
    chipsets and, to a lesser extent, higher revenue from sales of
    cellular baseband products. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we
    sold certain assets of the business line that included
    application and cellular baseband processors used in handheld
    devices; however, in 2007 we continued to manufacture and sell
    those products as part of a manufacturing and transition
    services agreement.

Operating income increased by
    $1.0 billion, or 22%, in 2007 compared to 2006. The
    increase in operating income was primarily due to higher
    revenue. Lower microprocessor unit costs were more than offset
    by approximately $330 million of higher
     start-up 
    costs, primarily related to our 45nm process technology. Lower
    unit costs on wireless connectivity and cellular baseband
    products were offset by higher chipset unit costs. Operating
    expenses were higher in 2007 compared to 2006; however,
    operating expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased in 2007
    compared to 2006.

40

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Operating
    Expenses   

Operating expenses for the three
    years ended December 27, 2008 were as follows:

Research and
    Development.    R D
    spending was flat in 2008 compared to 2007 and decreased
    $118 million, or 2%, in 2007 compared to 2006. In 2008
    compared to 2007, we had lower product development expenses
    resulting from our divested businesses and slightly lower
    profit-dependent compensation. These decreases were offset by
    higher process development costs as we transition from
    manufacturing
     start-up 
    costs related to our 45nm process technology to research and
    development of our next-generation 32nm process technology. The
    decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower
    process development costs as we transitioned from R D to
    manufacturing using our 45nm process technology, partially
    offset by higher profit-dependent compensation.

Marketing, General and
    Administrative.    Marketing,
    general and administrative expenses were flat in 2008 compared
    to 2007 and decreased $721 million, or 12%, in 2007
    compared to 2006. In 2008 compared to 2007, we had higher legal
    expenses that were offset by lower profit-dependent compensation
    and lower advertising expenses. The decrease in 2007 compared to
    2006 was primarily due to lower headcount, lower share-based
    compensation, and lower cooperative advertising expenses,
    partially offset by higher profit-dependent compensation.

R D, combined with marketing,
    general and administrative expenses, were 30% of net revenue in
    2008, 29% of net revenue in 2007, and 34% of net revenue in 2006.

Restructuring and Asset
    Impairment
    Charges.    The
    following table summarizes restructuring and asset impairment
    charges by plan for the three years ended December 27, 2008:

We may incur additional
    restructuring charges in the future for employee severance and
    benefit arrangements, and facility-related or other exit
    activities. Subsequent to the end of 2008, management approved
    plans to restructure some of our manufacturing and assembly and
    test operations, and align our manufacturing and assembly and
    test capacity to current market conditions. These actions, which
    are expected to take place beginning in 2009, include closing
    two assembly and test facilities in Malaysia, one facility in
    the Philippines, and one facility in China; stopping production
    at a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Oregon; and ending
    production at our 200mm wafer fabrication facility in
    California. Our outlook for the first quarter of 2009 is for
    additional restructuring and asset impairment charges of
    $160 million.

2008 NAND
    Plan  

In the fourth quarter of 2008,
    management approved a plan with Micron to discontinue the supply
    of NAND flash memory from the 200mm facility within the IMFT
    manufacturing network. The agreement resulted in a
    $215 million restructuring charge, primarily related to the
    IMFT 200mm supply agreement. The restructuring charge resulted
    in a reduction of our investment in IMFT of $184 million, a
    cash payment to Micron of $24 million, and other cash
    payments of $7 million.

41

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

2006
    Efficiency Program  

The following table summarizes
    charges for the 2006 efficiency program for the three years
    ended December 27, 2008:

In the third quarter of 2006,
    management approved several actions recommended by our structure
    and efficiency task force as part of a restructuring plan
    designed to improve operational efficiency and financial
    results. Some of these activities have involved cost savings or
    other actions that did not result in restructuring charges, such
    as better utilization of assets, reduced spending, and
    organizational efficiencies. The efficiency program has included
    targeted headcount reductions for various groups within the
    company, which we have met through employee attrition and
    terminations. Business divestures have further reduced headcount.

During 2006, we completed the
    divestiture of three businesses. For further discussion, see
     Note 12: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    In connection with the divestiture of certain assets of our
    communications and application processor business, we recorded
    impairment charges of $103 million related to the
    write-down of manufacturing tools to their fair value, less the
    cost to dispose of the assets. We determined the fair value
    using a market-based valuation technique. In addition, as a
    result of both this divestiture and a subsequent assessment of
    our worldwide manufacturing capacity operations, we placed for
    sale our fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
    This plan resulted in an impairment charge of $214 million
    to write down to fair value the land, building, and equipment
    asset grouping that has been principally used to support our
    communications and application processor business. We determined
    the fair market value of the asset grouping using an average of
    the results from using the cost approach and market approach
    valuation techniques.

During 2007, we incurred an
    additional $54 million in asset impairment charges as a
    result of market conditions related to the Colorado Springs
    facility. Also, we recorded land and building write-downs
    related to certain facilities in Santa Clara, California.
    In addition, we incurred $85 million in asset impairment
    charges related to assets that we sold in conjunction with the
    divestiture of our NOR flash memory business. We determined the
    impairment charges based on the fair value, less selling costs,
    that we expected to receive upon completion of the divestiture.

During 2008, we incurred
    additional asset impairment charges related to the Colorado
    Springs facility, based on market conditions. Also, we incurred
    $275 million in additional asset impairment charges related
    to assets that we sold in conjunction with the divestiture of
    our NOR flash memory business. We determined the impairment
    charges using the revised fair value of the equity and note
    receivable that we received upon completion of the divestiture,
    less selling costs. The lower fair value was primarily a result
    of a decline in the outlook for the flash memory market segment.
    For further information on this divestiture, see
     Note 12: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

The following table summarizes the
    restructuring and asset impairment activity for the 2006
    efficiency program during 2007 and 2008:

42

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

We recorded the additional
    accruals, net of adjustments, as restructuring and asset
    impairment charges. The remaining accrual as of
    December 27, 2008 was related to severance benefits that we
    recorded within accrued compensation and benefits.

From the third quarter of 2006
    through the fourth quarter of 2008, we incurred a total of
    $1.6 billion in restructuring and asset impairment charges
    related to this program. These charges included a total of
    $678 million related to employee severance and benefit
    arrangements for approximately 11,900 employees, of which
    10,800 employees had left the company as of
    December 27, 2008. A substantial majority of these employee
    terminations affected employees within manufacturing,
    information technology, and marketing. Of the employee severance
    and benefit charges incurred as of December 27, 2008, we
    had paid $621 million. The restructuring and asset
    impairment charges also included $888 million in asset
    impairment charges.

We estimate that employee
    severance and benefit charges from the third quarter of 2006 to
    the fourth quarter of 2008 will result in gross annual savings
    of approximately $1.1 billion, a portion of which we began
    to realize in the third quarter of 2006. We are realizing these
    savings within marketing, general and administrative expenses;
    cost of sales; and R D.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Share-based compensation totaled
    $851 million in 2008, $952 million in 2007, and
    $1.4 billion in 2006. Share-based compensation was included
    in cost of sales and operating expenses. The decrease in
    share-based compensation from 2006 to 2007 was a result of fewer
    equity awards vesting in 2007 compared to 2006.

As of December 27, 2008,
    unrecognized share-based compensation costs and the weighted
    average periods over which the costs are expected to be
    recognized were as follows:

Unrecognized 

Share-Based 

Weighted 

Compensation 

Average 

(Dollars in Millions) 

Costs 

Period 

Stock options

$

335

1.2 years 

Restricted stock units

$

937

1.4 years 

Stock purchase plan

$

18

1 month

Gains
    (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net   

Net losses on equity method
    investments were $1.4 billion in 2008 compared to a net
    gain of $3 million in 2007. We recognized higher impairment
    charges and higher equity method losses in 2008 compared to
    2007. Impairment charges in 2008 included a $762 million
    impairment charge recognized on our investment in Clearwire LLC
    and a $250 million impairment charge recognized on our
    investment in Numonyx. We recognized the impairment charge on
    our investment in Clearwire LLC to write down our investment to
    its fair value, primarily due to the fair value being
    significantly lower than the cost basis of our investment. The
    impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx was due to a
    general decline in the NOR flash memory market segment. Our
    equity method losses were primarily related to Numonyx
    ($87 million in 2008) and the old Clearwire
    Corporation ($184 million 2008 and $104 million in
    2007). See  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Net gains on equity method
    investments were flat in 2007 compared to 2006. Approximately
    $110 million of income recognized in 2007 due to the
    reorganization of one of our investments was offset by higher
    equity method losses, primarily from our investment in the old
    Clearwire Corporation. Equity method losses were not significant
    in 2006.

43

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Gains
    (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net   

Gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net were as follows:

Net losses on other equity
    investments were $376 million in 2008 compared to a net gain of
    $154 million in 2007. We recognized higher impairment charges
    and lower gains on sales in 2008 compared to 2007. Impairment
    charges in 2008 included a $176 million impairment charge
    recognized on our investment in the new Clearwire Corporation
    and $97 million of impairment charges on our investment in
    Micron. The impairment charge on our investment in the new
    Clearwire Corporation was due to the fair value being
    significantly lower than the cost basis of our investment. The
    impairment charges on our investment in Micron reflect the
    difference between our cost basis and the fair value of our
    investment in Micron at the end of the second and third quarters
    of 2008, and were principally based on our assessment of
    Micron s financial results and the competitive environment.

Net gains on other equity
    investments were $154 million in 2007 compared to $212 million
    in 2006. During 2007, we recognized lower gains on third-party
    merger transactions and higher impairment charges, partially
    offset by higher gains on sales of equity investments. Net gains
    on equity investments in 2006 included a gain of $103 million on
    the sale of a portion of our investment in Micron, which was
    sold for $275 million.

Interest
    and Other, Net   

The components of interest and
    other, net were as follows:

Interest and other, net decreased
    to $488 million in 2008 compared to $793 million in 2007. The
    decrease was due to lower interest income and fair value losses
    that we experienced in 2008 on our trading assets. Interest
    income was lower in 2008 compared to 2007 as a result of lower
    interest rates, partially offset by higher average investment
    balances.

Interest and other, net decreased
    to $793 million in 2007 compared to $1.2 billion in 2006,
    primarily due to lower divestiture gains, partially offset by
    higher interest income resulting primarily from higher average
    investment balances, and to a lesser extent higher interest
    rates. Results for 2006 included net gains of $612 million for
    three divestitures. See  Note 12: Divestitures  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Provision
    for Taxes   

Our effective income tax rate was
    31.1% in 2008 (23.9% in 2007 and 28.6% in 2006). The rate
    increased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to the
    recognition of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets
    due to the uncertainty of realizing tax benefits related to
    impairments of our equity investments. In addition, the rate
    increased in 2008 compared to 2007, due to the reversal of
    previously accrued taxes of $481 million (including $50 million
    of accrued interest) related to settlements with the U.S.
    Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the first and second quarters
    of 2007. Our effective income tax rate was lower in 2007
    compared to 2006, primarily due to the settlements with the IRS.

44

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Cash, short-term investments,
    marketable debt instruments included in trading assets, and debt
    at the end of each period were as follows:

In summary, our cash flows were as
    follows:

Operating
    Activities   

Cash provided by operating
    activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and
    changes in certain assets and liabilities. For 2008 compared to
    2007, the $1.7 billion decrease in cash provided by operating
    activities was primarily due to the $1.7 billion decrease in net
    income, while total adjustments to reconcile net income to cash
    provided by operating activities, including net changes in
    assets and liabilities, were approximately flat.

Inventories as of December 27,
    2008 increased compared to December 29, 2007, due to higher
    chipset and microprocessor inventories partially offset by lower
    inventories of other products. As of December 27, 2008, our
    other accrued liabilities included $447 million in customer
    credit balances, which were reclassified from accounts
    receivable. Accounts receivable as of December 27, 2008
    decreased significantly compared to December 29, 2007, due to a
    significant decline in revenue during the last month in the
    fourth quarter of 2008. Customer credit balances were not
    significant as of December 29, 2007. For 2008, our two largest
    customers accounted for 38% of our net revenue (35% in 2007). In
    2008, one of these customers accounted for 20% of our net
    revenue (17% in 2007), and another customer accounted for 18% of
    our net revenue (18% in 2007). Additionally, these two largest
    customers accounted for 46% of our accounts receivable as of
    December 27, 2008 (35% as of December 29, 2007).

Due to the adoption of SFAS No.
    159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
    Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB
    Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159), in 2008, the related
    cash flows for marketable debt instruments classified as trading
    assets are now included in investing activities.

For 2007 compared to 2006, the
    increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily
    due to higher net income. Changes to working capital in 2007
    from 2006 were approximately flat, with a decrease in inventory
    levels compared to an increase in 2006, offset by higher
    purchases of trading assets exceeding maturities.

Investing
    Activities   

Investing cash flows consist
    primarily of capital expenditures, net investment purchases,
    maturities, and disposals.

The decrease in cash used for
    investing activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due
    to a decrease in purchases of available-for-sale debt
    investments. In addition, due to the adoption of SFAS No. 159 in
    2008, the related cash flows for marketable debt instruments
    classified as trading assets were included in investing
    activities for 2008, and previously they had been included in
    operating activities. Our investments in non-marketable equity
    investments were higher in 2008 and included $1.0 billion for an
    ownership interest in Clearwire LLC.

45

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Our capital expenditures were $5.2
    billion in 2008 ($5.0 billion in 2007 and $5.9 billion in 2006).
    Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2009 are currently expected
    to be flat to slightly down from our 2008 expenditures. Capital
    expenditures during fiscal year 2009 are expected to be funded
    by cash flows from operating activities.

The increase in cash used in
    investing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due
    to higher purchases of available-for-sale investments. Lower
    capital spending was mostly offset by lower proceeds from
    divestitures.

Financing
    Activities   

Financing cash flows consist
    primarily of repurchases and retirement of common stock, payment
    of dividends to stockholders, and proceeds from the sale of
    shares through employee equity incentive plans.

The higher cash used in financing
    activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to an
    increase in repurchases and retirement of common stock, and
    lower proceeds from the sale of shares pursuant to employee
    equity incentive plans. During 2008, we repurchased $7.2 billion
    of common stock compared to $2.8 billion in 2007. As of December
    27, 2008, $7.4 billion remained available for repurchase under
    the existing repurchase authorization of $25 billion. We base
    our level of common stock repurchases on internal cash
    management decisions, and this level may fluctuate. Proceeds
    from the sale of shares through employee equity incentive plans
    totaled $1.1 billion in 2008 compared to $3.1 billion in 2007,
    as a result of a lower volume of employee exercises of stock
    options. Our dividend payment was $3.1 billion in 2008, higher
    than the $2.6 billion in 2007, due to increases in quarterly
    cash dividends per common share. On January 23, 2009, our Board
    of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share
    for the first quarter of 2009.

The lower cash used in financing
    activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to an
    increase in proceeds from the sale of shares through employee
    equity incentive plans and a decrease in repurchases and
    retirement of common stock.

Liquidity   

Cash generated by operations is
    used as our primary source of liquidity. As of December 27,
    2008, we also had an investment portfolio valued at $14.5
    billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents and marketable
    debt instruments included in trading assets and short- and
    long-term investments.

Our investment policy requires all
    investments with original maturities of up to 6 months to be
    rated at least
     A-1/P-1  by
    Standard   Poor s/Moody s, and specifies a higher
    minimum rating for investments with longer maturities. For
    instance, investments with maturities of greater than three
    years require a minimum rating of AA-/Aa3 at the time of
    investment. Government regulations imposed on investment
    alternatives of our
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries, or the absence of A rated counterparties in
    certain countries, result in some minor exceptions.
    Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are
    with A/A2 or better rated issuers, and the majority of the
    issuers are rated 
    AA-/Aa2 or better. Additionally, we limit the amount of credit
    exposure to any one counterparty based on our analysis of that
    counterparty s relative credit standing. As of December 27,
    2008, the total credit exposure to any single counterparty did
    not exceed $500 million.

Credit rating criteria for
    derivative instruments are similar to those for other
    investments. The amounts subject to credit risk related to
    derivative instruments are generally limited to the amounts, if
    any, by which a counterparty s obligations exceed our
    obligations with that counterparty, because we enter into master
    netting arrangements with counterparties when possible to
    mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions subject to
    International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA)
    agreements.

The credit quality of our
    investment portfolio remains high during this difficult credit
    environment, with other-than-temporary impairments on our
    available-for-sale debt instruments limited to $44 million
    during 2008. In addition, we continue to be able to invest in
    high-quality investments. However, we have seen a reduction in
    the volume of available commercial paper from certain market
    segments. As a result, our investments in short-term government
    funds have increased, which will reduce our average investment
    return. With the exception of a limited amount of investments
    for which we have recognized other-than-temporary impairments,
    we have not seen significant liquidation delays, and for those
    that have matured we have received the full par value of our
    original debt investments. We have the intent and ability to
    hold our debt investments that have unrealized losses in
    accumulated other comprehensive income for a sufficient period
    of time to allow for recovery of the principal amounts invested,
    which may occur at or near the maturity of those investments.

46

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

As of December 27, 2008, $10.2
    billion of our portfolio had a remaining maturity of less than
    one year. As of December 27, 2008, our cumulative unrealized
    losses, net of corresponding hedging activities, related to debt
    instruments classified as trading assets were approximately $145
    million (approximately $25 million as of December 29, 2007). As
    of December 27, 2008, our cumulative unrealized losses related
    to debt instruments classified as available-for-sale were
    approximately $215 million (approximately $55 million as of
    December 29, 2007). Substantially all of our unrealized losses
    can be attributed to fair value fluctuations in an unstable
    credit environment that resulted in a decrease in the market
    liquidity for debt instruments.

Our portfolio included $1.1
    billion of asset-backed securities as of December 27, 2008.
    Approximately half of these securities were collateralized by
    first-lien mortgages or credit card debt. The remaining
    asset-backed securities were collateralized by student loans or
    auto loans. During 2008, our asset-backed securities experienced
    net unrealized fair value declines totaling $131 million, of
    which $108 million was recognized in our consolidated statements
    of income. As of December 27, 2008, the expected weighted
    average remaining maturity was less than two years.

We continually monitor the credit
    risk in our portfolio and mitigate our credit and interest rate
    exposures in accordance with the policies approved by our Board
    of Directors. We intend to continue to closely monitor future
    developments in the credit markets and make appropriate changes
    to our investment policy as deemed necessary. Based on our
    ability to liquidate our investment portfolio and our expected
    operating cash flows, we do not anticipate any liquidity
    constraints as a result of either the current credit environment
    or potential investment fair value fluctuations.

Our commercial paper program
    provides another potential source of liquidity. We have an
    ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up
    to $3.0 billion, including through the issuance of commercial
    paper. Maximum borrowings under our commercial paper program
    during 2008 were approximately $1.3 billion, although no
    commercial paper remained outstanding as of December 27, 2008.
    Our commercial paper was rated
     A-1+  by
    Standard   Poor s and
     P-1  by
    Moody s as of December 27, 2008. Despite the tightening of
    the credit markets, we continue to be able to access funds
    through the credit markets, including through the issuance of
    commercial paper. We also have an automatic shelf registration
    statement on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an
    unspecified amount of debt, equity, and other securities.

We believe that we have the
    financial resources needed to meet business requirements for the
    next 12 months, including capital expenditures for the expansion
    or upgrading of worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test
    capacity, working capital requirements, and potential dividends,
    common stock repurchases, and acquisitions or strategic
    investments.

Fair
    Value  

Beginning in the first quarter of
    2008, the assessment of fair value for our financial instruments
    was based on the provisions of SFAS No. 157. SFAS No. 157
    establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to
    maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
    unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Observable inputs
    are obtained from independent sources and can be validated by a
    third party, whereas unobservable inputs reflect assumptions
    regarding what a third party would use in pricing an asset or
    liability. A financial instrument s categorization within
    the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input
    that is significant to the fair value measurement.

Credit risk is factored into the
    valuation of financial instruments that we measure at fair value
    on a recurring basis. When fair value is determined using
    observable market prices, the credit risk is incorporated into
    the market price of the financial instrument. When fair value is
    determined using pricing models, such as a discounted cash flow
    model, the issuer s credit risk
     and/or 
    Intel s credit risk is factored into the calculation of the
    fair value, as appropriate. During 2008, the valuation of our
    liabilities measured at fair value as well as our derivative
    instruments in a current or potential net liability position
    were not impacted by changes in our credit risk. The credit
    ratings of certain of our counterparties have deteriorated.
    However, the deterioration of these credit ratings did not have
    a significant impact on the valuation of either our marketable
    debt instruments or derivative instruments in a current or
    potential net asset position.

47

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

When values are determined using
    inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the values
    of the instruments being measured, we classify those instruments
    as Level 3 under the SFAS No. 157 hierarchy. As of December 27,
    2008, our financial instruments measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis included $15.0 billion of assets, of which $1.7
    billion (11%) were classified as Level 3. In addition, our
    financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring
    basis included $421 million of liabilities, of which $147
    million (35%) were classified as Level 3. During 2008, we
    transferred approximately $680 million of assets from Level 3 to
    Level 2. These assets primarily consisted of floating-rate notes
    that were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 due to a greater
    availability of observable market data
     and/or 
    non-binding market consensus prices to value or corroborate the
    value of our instruments. During 2008, we recognized an
    insignificant amount of losses on the assets that were
    transferred from Level 3 to Level 2.

During 2008, the Level 3 assets
    and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring
    basis experienced net unrealized fair value declines totaling
    $160 million. Of these declines, $111 million was recognized in
    our consolidated statements of income. We believe that the
    remaining $49 million, included in other comprehensive income,
    represents a temporary decline in the fair value of
    available-for-sale investments. During 2008, we did not
    experience any significant realized gains (losses) related to
    the Level 3 assets or liabilities in our portfolio.

Marketable
    Debt Instruments   

As of December 27, 2008, our
    assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis included
    $14.2 billion of marketable debt instruments. Of these
    instruments, approximately $525 million was classified as Level
    1, approximately $12.0 billion as Level 2, and approximately
    $1.6 billion as Level 3.

When available, we use observable
    market prices for identical securities to value our marketable
    debt instruments. If observable market prices are not available,
    we use non-binding market consensus prices that we seek to
    corroborate with observable market data, if available, or
    non-observable market data. When prices from multiple sources
    are available for a given instrument, we use observable market
    quotes to price our instruments, in lieu of prices from other
    sources.

Our balance of marketable debt
    instruments that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    and classified as Level 1 was classified as such due to the
    usage of observable market prices for identical securities that
    are traded in active markets. Marketable debt instruments in
    this category generally include certain of our floating-rate
    notes, corporate bonds, and money market fund deposits.
    Management judgment was required to determine our policy that
    defines the levels at which sufficient volume and frequency of
    transactions are met for a market to be considered active. Our
    assessment of an active market for our marketable debt
    instruments generally takes into consideration activity during
    each week of the one-month period prior to the valuation date of
    each individual instrument, including the number of days each
    individual instrument trades and the average weekly trading
    volume in relation to the total outstanding amount of the issued
    instrument.

Approximately 10% of our balance
    of marketable debt instruments that are measured at fair value
    on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2 was classified as
    such due to the usage of observable market prices for identical
    securities that are traded in less active markets. When
    observable market prices for identical securities are not
    available, we price our marketable debt instruments using:
    non-binding market consensus prices that are corroborated with
    observable market data; quoted market prices for similar
    instruments; or pricing models, such as a discounted cash flow
    model, with all significant inputs derived from or corroborated
    with observable market data. Non-binding market consensus prices
    are based on the proprietary valuation models of pricing
    providers or brokers. These valuation models incorporate a
    number of inputs, including non-binding and binding broker
    quotes; observable market prices for identical
     and/or 
    similar securities; and the internal assumptions of pricing
    providers or brokers that use observable market inputs and to a
    lesser degree non-observable market inputs. We corroborate the
    non-binding market consensus prices with observable market data
    using statistical models when observable market data exists. The
    discounted cash flow model uses observable market inputs, such
    as LIBOR-based yield curves, currency spot and forward rates,
    and credit ratings. Approximately 45% of our balance of
    marketable debt instruments that are measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis and classified as Level 2 was classified as such
    due to the usage of a discounted cash flow model, approximately
    40% due to the usage of non-binding market consensus prices that
    are corroborated with observable market data, and approximately
    5% due to the usage of quoted market prices for similar
    instruments. Marketable debt instruments classified as Level 2
    generally include commercial paper, bank time deposits,
    municipal bonds, certain of our money market fund deposits, and
    a majority of floating-rate notes and corporate bonds.

48

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Our marketable debt instruments
    that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and
    classified as Level 3 were classified as such due to the
    lack of observable market data to corroborate either the
    non-binding market consensus prices or the non-binding broker
    quotes. When observable market data is not available, we
    corroborate the non-binding market consensus prices and
    non-binding broker quotes using unobservable data, if available.
    Marketable debt instruments in this category generally include
    asset-backed securities and certain of our floating-rate notes
    and corporate bonds. All of our investments in asset-backed
    securities were classified as Level 3, and substantially
    all of them were valued using non-binding market consensus
    prices that we were not able to corroborate with observable
    market data due to the lack of transparency in the market for
    asset-backed securities.

Money
    Market Fund Deposits  

As of December 27, 2008, our
    marketable debt instruments included $422 million of money
    market fund deposits. Of these money market fund deposits,
    $373 million was classified as Level 1 and
    $49 million was classified as Level 2.

Equity
    Securities   

As of December 27, 2008, our
    portfolio of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    included $352 million of marketable equity securities. Of
    these securities, $308 million was classified as
    Level 1 because the valuations were based on quoted prices
    for identical securities in active markets. Our assessment of an
    active market for our marketable equity securities generally
    takes into consideration activity during each week of the
    one-month period prior to the valuation date for each individual
    security, including the number of days each individual equity
    security trades and the average weekly trading volume in
    relation to the total outstanding shares of that security. The
    fair values of our investments in the new Clearwire Corporation
    ($148 million) and VMware, Inc. ($137 million)
    constituted most of the fair values of the marketable equity
    securities that we classified as Level 1. Our investment in
    VMware was reclassified from Level 2 to Level 1 during
    2008, due to the expiration of our transfer restriction on
    VMware stock.

The remaining marketable equity
    securities ($44 million) were classified as Level 2
    because their valuations were either based on quoted prices for
    identical securities in less active markets or adjusted for
    security-specific restrictions. The fair value of our investment
    in Micron ($42 million) constituted substantially all of
    the fair values of the marketable equity securities that we
    classified as Level 2. In measuring the fair value of our
    investment in Micron, our valuation reflected a discount from
    the quoted market price of Micron s stock, due to our
    investment being in a form of rights exchangeable into
    unregistered Micron stock.

As of December 27, 2008, our
    portfolio of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    included $299 million of equity securities offsetting
    deferred compensation. All of these securities were classified
    as Level 1, because their valuations were based on quoted
    prices for identical securities in active markets.

49

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Contractual
    Obligations  

The following table summarizes our
    significant contractual obligations as of December 27, 2008:

1   

Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for the
    construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They
    were not recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance
    sheet as of December 27, 2008, as we had not yet received
    the related goods or taken title to the property.  

2   

Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments
    due under various types of licenses, agreements to purchase raw
    materials or other goods, as well as payments due under
    non-contingent funding obligations. Funding obligations include,
    for example, agreements to fund various projects with other
    companies.  

3   

Amounts represent total anticipated cash payments, including
    anticipated interest payments that are not recorded on the
    consolidated balance sheets and the short-term portion of the
    obligation. Any future settlement of convertible debt would
    reduce anticipated interest and/or principal payments. Amounts
    exclude fair value adjustments such as discounts or premiums
    that affect the amount recorded on the consolidated balance
    sheets.  

4   

We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of future
    payments related to uncertain tax positions; therefore,
    $736 million of income taxes payable has been excluded from
    the table above. However, long-term income taxes payable,
    included on our consolidated balance sheet, includes these
    uncertain tax positions, reduced by the associated federal
    deduction for state taxes and
     non-U.S.  tax
    credits.  

5   

Other long-term liabilities in the table above include the
    short-term portion of other long-term liabilities. Expected
    contributions to our U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans of
    $67 million to be made during 2009 are also included;
    however, funding projections beyond 2009 are not practical to
    estimate.  

6   

Total generally excludes contractual obligations already
    recorded on the consolidated balance sheet as current
    liabilities.  

Contractual obligations for
    purchases of goods or services generally include agreements that
    are enforceable and legally binding on Intel and that specify
    all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to
    be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and
    the approximate timing of the transaction. The table above also
    includes agreements to purchase raw materials that have
    cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment. The
    amounts under such contracts are included in the table above
    because management believes that cancellation of these contracts
    is unlikely and expects to make future cash payments according
    to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar
    materials. For other obligations with cancellation provisions,
    the amounts included in the table above were limited to the
    non-cancelable portion of the agreement terms
     and/or  the
    minimum cancellation fee.

We have entered into certain
    agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods that
    specify minimum prices and quantities based on a percentage of
    the total available market or based on a percentage of our
    future purchasing requirements. Due to the uncertainty of the
    future market and our future purchasing requirements,
    obligations under these agreements are not included in the table
    above. We estimate our obligation under these agreements as of
    December 27, 2008 to be approximately as follows: less than
    one year $309 million; one to three
    years $315 million; three to five years zero;
    more than five years zero. Our purchase orders for other
    products are based on our current manufacturing needs and are
    fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. In
    addition, some of our purchase orders represent authorizations
    to purchase rather than binding agreements.

50

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Contractual obligations that are
    contingent upon the achievement of certain milestones are not
    included in the table above. These obligations include
    milestone-based co-marketing agreements, contingent
    funding/payment obligations, and milestone-based equity
    investment funding. These arrangements are not considered
    contractual obligations until the milestone is met by the third
    party. As of December 27, 2008, assuming that all future
    milestones are met, additional required payments would be
    approximately $150 million.

For the majority of restricted
    stock units granted, the number of shares issued on the date the
    restricted stock units vest is net of the statutory withholding
    requirements paid by Intel on behalf of our employees. The
    obligation to pay the relative taxing authority is not included
    in the table above, as the amount is contingent upon continued
    employment. In addition, the amount of the obligation is
    unknown, as it is based in part on the market price of our
    common stock when the awards vest.

The expected timing of payments of
    the obligations above are estimates based on current
    information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be
    different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or
    services, or changes to
     agreed-upon 
    amounts for some obligations. Amounts disclosed as contingent or
    milestone-based obligations are dependent on the achievement of
    the milestones or the occurrence of the contingent events and
    can vary significantly.

We have a contractual obligation
    to purchase the output of IMFT and IMFS in proportion to our
    investments, currently 49% in each of these ventures. However,
    IMFS is in its construction phase and has had no production to
    date. See  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    Additionally, we have entered into various contractual
    commitments in relation to our investments in IMFT and IMFS.
    Some of these commitments are with Micron, and some are directly
    with IMFT or IMFS. The following are the significant contractual
    commitments:

Subject to certain conditions,
    Intel and Micron each agreed to contribute up to approximately
    $1.7 billion for IMFS in the three years following the
    initial capital contribution. Of that amount, as of
    December 27, 2008, our remaining commitment was
    approximately $1.3 billion. However, the construction of
    the IMFS fabrication facility has been placed on hold.

We also have several agreements
    with Micron related to intellectual property rights, and
    R D funding related to NAND flash manufacturing and IMFT.
    See  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements  

As of December 27, 2008, with
    the exception of a guarantee for the repayment of
    $275 million in principal of the payment obligations of
    Numonyx under its senior credit facility, as well as accrued
    unpaid interest, expenses of the lenders, and penalties, we did
    not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as
    defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC
     Regulation S-K. 
    See  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

51

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Business
    Outlook  

Our future results of operations
    and the topics of other forward-looking statements contained in
    this
     Form 10-K, 
    including this MD A, involve a number of risks and
    uncertainties in particular, current economic uncertainty,
    including the tightening of credit markets, as well as future
    economic conditions; our goals and strategies; new product
    introductions; plans to cultivate new businesses; divestitures
    or investments; revenue; pricing; gross margin and costs;
    capital spending; depreciation; R D expenses; marketing,
    general and administrative expenses; potential impairment of
    investments; our effective tax rate; pending legal proceedings;
    net gains (losses) from equity investments; and interest and
    other, net. The current uncertainty in global economic
    conditions makes it particularly difficult to predict product
    demand and other related matters, and makes it more likely that
    our actual results could differ materially from our
    expectations. In addition to the various important factors
    discussed above, a number of other important factors could cause
    actual results to differ materially from our expectations. See
    the risks described in  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our expectations for 2009 are as
    follows:

Total
    Spending.    We
    expect spending on R D, plus marketing, general and
    administrative expenses, in 2009 to be between
    $10.4 billion and $10.6 billion. This expectation for
    our total spending in 2009 is lower than our 2008 spending by
    approximately 6% due to targeted spending reductions, lower
    spending for revenue and profit-dependent items, and the
    standard shift between R D and cost of sales spending as we
    ramp our new 32nm process technology.

Research and Development
    Spending.    Approximately
    $5.4 billion.

Capital
    Spending.    We
    expect capital spending in 2009 to be flat to slightly down from
    capital spending in 2008 of $5.2 billion. We expect capital
    spending for 2009 to primarily consist of investments in 32nm
    process technology.

Depreciation.    Approximately
    $4.8 billion, plus or minus $100 million.

Tax
    Rate.    Approximately
    27%. The estimated effective tax rate is based on tax law in
    effect as of December 27, 2008 and expected income.

Status of
    Business Outlook  

We expect that our corporate
    representatives will, from time to time, meet privately with
    investors, investment analysts, the media, and others, and may
    reiterate the forward-looking statements contained in the
     Business Outlook  section and elsewhere in this
     Form 10-K, 
    including any such statements that are incorporated by reference
    in this
     Form 10-K. 
    At the same time, we will keep this
     Form 10-K 
    and our most current business outlook publicly available on our
    Investor Relations web site at  www.intc.com . The public
    can continue to rely on the business outlook published on the
    web site as representing our current expectations on matters
    covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. The
    statements in the  Business Outlook  and other
    forward-looking statements in this
     Form 10-K 
    are subject to revision during the course of the year in our
    quarterly earnings releases and SEC filings and at other times.

From the close of business on
    February 27, 2009 until our quarterly earnings release is
    published, presently scheduled for April 14, 2009, we will
    observe a  quiet period.  During the quiet period, the
     Business Outlook  and other forward-looking
    statements first published in our
     Form 8-K 
    filed on January 15, 2009, as reiterated or updated as
    applicable, in this
     Form 10-K, 
    should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the
    quiet period only and not subject to update. During the quiet
    period, our representatives will not comment on our business
    outlook or our financial results or expectations. The exact
    timing and duration of the routine quiet period, and any others
    that we utilize from time to time, may vary at our discretion.

52

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A.   

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

We are exposed to financial market
    risks, primarily changes in currency exchange rates, interest
    rates, and equity prices. We use derivative financial
    instruments primarily to manage currency exchange rate risk and
    interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, equity market risk
    and commodity price risk. All of the potential changes noted
    below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our
    financial positions as of December 27, 2008 and
    December 29, 2007. Actual results may differ materially.

Currency
    Exchange Rates  

We generally hedge currency risks
    of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    investments in debt instruments with offsetting currency
    borrowings, currency forward contracts, or currency interest
    rate swaps. Gains and losses on these
     non-U.S.-currency 
    investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses
    and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in a
    negligible net exposure.

A majority of our revenue,
    expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in
    U.S. dollars. However, certain operating expenditures and
    capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other
    currencies, primarily the euro, the Japanese yen, and the
    Israeli shekel. We have established balance sheet and forecasted
    transaction currency risk management programs to protect against
    fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash
    flows caused by changes in exchange rates. We generally utilize
    currency forward contracts and, to a lesser extent, currency
    options in these hedging programs. Our hedging programs reduce,
    but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange rate movements (see  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K). 
    We considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates
    and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted
    average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could
    be experienced in the near term. Such an adverse change, after
    taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have
    resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less
    than $55 million at the end of 2008 (less than
    $35 million at the end of 2007, using a weighted average
    adverse change of 15% in currency exchange rates). The weighted
    average adverse change increased from the end of 2007 to the end
    of 2008, due to a higher relative weighting of more volatile
    currencies.

Interest
    Rates  

We are exposed to interest rate
    risk related to our investment portfolio and debt issuances. The
    primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to
    preserve principal while maximizing yields. To achieve this
    objective, the returns on our investments in debt instruments
    are generally based on three-month LIBOR, or, if the maturities
    are longer than three months, the returns are generally swapped
    into U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR-based returns. The
    current financial markets are extremely volatile. A hypothetical
    1.0% decrease in interest rates, after taking into account
    hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in a
    decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of
    approximately $135 million as of December 27, 2008 and
    $80 million as of December 29, 2007. The hypothetical
    1.0% interest rate decrease would have resulted in an increase
    in the fair value of our debt issuances of approximately
    $150 million as of December 27, 2008 and would have
    resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment
    portfolio of approximately $15 million as of
    December 27, 2008 (an increase in the fair value of our
    debt issuances of approximately $95 million as of
    December 29, 2007 and an increase in the fair value of our
    investment portfolio of approximately $15 million as of
    December 29, 2007). The fluctuations in fair value of our
    debt issuances and investment portfolio reflect only the direct
    impact of the change in interest rates. Other economic
    variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in
    relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher
    decline in our net investment portfolio. For further information
    on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of our
    investment portfolio and debt issuances, see  Fair
    Value  in Part II, Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Equity
    Prices  

Our marketable equity investments
    include marketable equity securities and equity derivative
    instruments such as warrants and options. To the extent that our
    marketable equity securities have strategic value, we typically
    do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure
    through hedging activities; however, for our investments in
    strategic equity derivative instruments, including warrants, we
    may enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the equity
    market risks. For securities that we no longer consider
    strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors in
    our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is
    possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk.

53

Table of Contents   

The marketable equity securities
    included in trading assets are held to generate returns that
    seek to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity and
    other market risks of certain deferred compensation
    arrangements. The gains and losses from changes in fair value of
    these equity securities are offset by the gains and losses on
    the related liabilities. Assuming a decline in market prices of
    approximately 25%, our net exposure to loss was approximately
    $40 million as of December 27, 2008 and approximately
    $20 million as of December 29, 2007.

As of December 27, 2008, the
    fair value of our available-for-sale marketable equity
    securities and our equity derivative instruments, including
    hedging positions, was $362 million ($1.0 billion as
    of December 29, 2007). Our investments in the new Clearwire
    Corporation, VMware, and Micron constituted 90% of our
    marketable equity securities as of December 27, 2008, and
    were carried at a fair market value of $148 million,
    $137 million, and $42 million, respectively. The
    current equity markets are extremely volatile. Assuming a loss
    of 60% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of
    hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our
    marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately
    $220 million, based on the value as of December 27,
    2008 (a decrease in value of $565 million, based on the
    value as of December 29, 2007 using an assumed loss of
    55%). The increase in the assumed loss percentage from
    December 29, 2007 to December 27, 2008 is due to a
    higher relative weighting of more volatile investments.

Many of the same factors that
    could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices
    affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot
    always quantify the impact directly. The current financial
    markets are extremely volatile and there has been a tightening
    of the credit markets, which could negatively affect the
    prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise
    additional capital, and the likelihood of our being able to
    realize value in our investments through liquidity events such
    as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. These
    types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can
    be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become
    successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our
    investment. Our non-marketable equity investments, excluding
    investments accounted for under the equity method, had a
    carrying amount of $1.0 billion as of December 27,
    2008 ($805 million as of December 29, 2007). As of
    December 27, 2008, the carrying amount of our
    non-marketable equity method investments was $3.0 billion
    ($2.6 billion as of December 29, 2007). Most of the
    balance as of December 27, 2008 was concentrated in
    companies in the flash memory market segment and wireless
    connectivity market segment. Our flash memory market segment
    investments include our investment of $1.7 billion in IMFT
    ($2.2 billion as of December 29, 2007),
    $329 million in IMFS ($146 million as of
    December 29, 2007), and $484 million in Numonyx. Our
    wireless connectivity market segment investments include our
    non-marketable equity method investment in Clearwire LLC of
    $238 million. See  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost
    Method Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

54

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.   

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

56

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

57

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

58

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders 
    Equity 

59

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

60

Reports of Ernst   Young LLP,
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

112

Supplemental Data: Financial Information by
    Quarter 

114

55

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

See accompanying
    notes.  

56

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

See accompanying
    notes.  

57

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

See accompanying
    notes.  

58

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

1   

For further discussion of the adjustments recorded at the
    beginning of fiscal years 2006 and 2007, see  Accounting
    Changes  in  Note 2: Accounting
    Policies.   

See accompanying
    notes.  

59

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1:
    Basis of Presentation  

We have a 52- or 53-week fiscal
    year that ends on the last Saturday in December. Fiscal year
    2008, a 52-week year, ended on December 27, 2008. Fiscal
    year 2007, a 52-week year, ended on December 29, 2007.
    Fiscal year 2006, a 52-week year, ended on December 30,
    2006. The next 53-week year will end on December 31, 2011.

Our consolidated financial
    statements include the accounts of Intel Corporation and our
    wholly owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and
    transactions have been eliminated. We use the equity method to
    account for equity investments in instances in which we own
    common stock or similar interests (as described by the Emerging
    Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
     No. 02-14, 
     Whether an Investor Should Apply the Equity Method of
    Accounting to Investments Other Than Common Stock ), and
    have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not
    control, over the investee.

The U.S. dollar is the
    functional currency for Intel and our subsidiaries; therefore,
    we do not have a translation adjustment recorded through
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Monetary accounts
    denominated in
     non-U.S. currencies, 
    such as cash or payables to vendors, have been remeasured to the
    U.S. dollar.

In accordance with the adoption of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 115  (SFAS No. 159), we have classified
    cash flows from certain trading assets as cash flows from
    investing activities beginning in 2008. For further discussion,
    see  Accounting Changes  in  Note 2:
    Accounting Policies. 

As of December 27, 2008, our
    other accrued liabilities included $447 million in customer
    credit balances. Customer credit balances were not significant
    as of December 29, 2007.

Note 2:
    Accounting Policies  

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial
    statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles requires us to make estimates and
    judgments that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated
    financial statements and the accompanying notes. The accounting
    estimates that require our most significant, difficult, and
    subjective judgments include:

the valuation of non-marketable
    equity investments and the determination of other-than-temporary
    impairments;

the valuation of investments in
    debt instruments and the determination of other-than-temporary
    impairments;

the assessment of recoverability
    of long-lived assets;

the recognition and measurement of
    current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of
    uncertain tax positions); and

the valuation of inventory.

The actual results that we
    experience may differ materially from our estimates.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

We consider all liquid
    available-for-sale debt instruments with original maturities
    from the date of purchase of approximately three months or less
    as cash and cash equivalents.

60

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Trading
    Assets   

Investments that we designate as
    trading assets are reported at fair value, with gains or losses
    resulting from changes in fair value recognized in earnings. Our
    trading asset investments include:

Marketable debt instruments
       when the interest rate
    or foreign exchange rate risk is hedged at inception by a
    related derivative instrument. We record the gains or losses of
    these investments arising from changes in fair value due to
    interest rate and currency market fluctuations and credit market
    volatility, offset by losses or gains on the related derivative
    instruments, in interest and other, net. We also designate
    certain floating-rate securitized financial instruments,
    primarily asset-backed securities purchased after
    December 30, 2006, as trading assets.

Equity securities offsetting
    deferred compensation
       when the investments
    seek to offset changes in liabilities related to equity and
    other market risks of certain deferred compensation
    arrangements. We offset the gains or losses from changes in fair
    value of these equity securities against losses or gains on the
    related liabilities and include them in interest and other, net.

Marketable equity securities
       when we deem the
    investments not to be strategic in nature at the time of
    original classification, and generally have the ability and
    intent to mitigate equity market risk through the sale or the
    use of derivative instruments. For these marketable equity
    securities, we include gains or losses from changes in fair
    value, primarily offset by losses or gains on related derivative
    instruments, in gains (losses) on other equity investments, net.

Debt
    Instrument Investments   

We classify available-for-sale
    debt instruments with original maturities at the date of
    purchase greater than approximately three months and remaining
    maturities less than one year as short-term investments. We
    classify available-for-sale debt instruments with remaining
    maturities greater than one year as other long-term investments.
    We account for cost basis loan participation notes at amortized
    cost and classify them as short-term investments and other
    long-term investments based on stated maturities.

Available-for-Sale
    Investments   

Investments that we designate as
    available-for-sale are reported at fair value, with unrealized
    gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). We determine the cost of the
    investment sold based on the specific identification method. Our
    available-for-sale investments include:

Marketable debt instruments
       when the interest rate
    and foreign currency risks are not hedged at inception of the
    investment or when our designation for trading assets is not
    met. We hold these debt instruments to generate a return
    commensurate with three-month LIBOR. We record the interest
    income and realized gains and losses on the sale of these
    instruments in interest and other, net.

Marketable equity securities
       when the investments
    are considered strategic in nature at the time of original
    classification or there are barriers to mitigating equity market
    risk through the sale or use of derivative instruments at the
    time of original classification. We acquire these equity
    investments for the promotion of business and strategic
    objectives. To the extent that these investments continue to
    have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or
    eliminate the inherent equity market risks through hedging
    activities. We record the realized gains or losses on the sale
    or exchange of marketable equity securities in gains (losses) on
    other equity investments, net.

Non-Marketable
    and Other Equity Investments   

We account for non-marketable and
    other equity investments under either the cost or equity method
    and include them in other long-term assets. Our non-marketable
    and other equity investments include:

Equity method investments
       when we have the
    ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over
    the investee. We record equity method adjustments in gains
    (losses) on equity method investments, net, and may do so with
    up to a one-quarter lag. Equity method adjustments include: our
    proportionate share of investee income or loss, gains or losses
    resulting from investee capital transactions, adjustments to
    recognize certain differences between our carrying value and our
    equity in net assets of the investee at the date of investment,
    impairments, and other adjustments required by the equity
    method. Equity method investments include marketable and
    non-marketable investments.

Non-marketable cost method
    investments    when the
    equity method does not apply. We record the realized gains or
    losses on the sale of non-marketable cost method investments in
    gains (losses) on other equity investments, net.

61

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Other-Than-Temporary
    Impairment   

All of our available-for-sale
    investments and non-marketable and other equity investments are
    subject to a periodic impairment review. Investments are
    considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged
    to be other-than-temporary, for the following investments:

Marketable equity securities
       when the resulting fair
    value is significantly below cost basis
     and/or  the
    significant decline has lasted for an extended period of time.
    The evaluation that we use to determine whether a marketable
    equity security is other than temporarily impaired is based on
    the specific facts and circumstances present at the time of
    assessment, which include the consideration of general market
    conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is
    below cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment
    for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in value
    in the foreseeable future. We also consider specific adverse
    conditions related to the financial health of and business
    outlook for the investee, including industry and sector
    performance, changes in technology, operational and financing
    cash flow factors, and changes in the investee s credit
    rating.

Non-marketable equity
    investments    when events
    or circumstances are identified that would significantly harm
    the fair value of the investment and the fair value is
    significantly below cost basis
     and/or  the
    significant decline has lasted for an extended period of time.
    The indicators that we use to identify those events and
    circumstances include:

the investee s revenue and
    earning trends relative to predefined milestones and overall
    business prospects;

the technological feasibility of
    the investee s products and technologies;

the general market conditions in
    the investee s industry or geographic area, including
    adverse regulatory or economic changes;

factors related to the
    investee s ability to remain in business, such as the
    investee s liquidity, debt ratios, and the rate at which
    the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of
    additional funding at a lower valuation. If an investee obtains
    additional funding at a valuation lower than our carrying
    amount, or a new round of equity funding is required for the
    investee to remain in business and the new round of equity does
    not appear imminent, it is presumed that the investment is other
    than temporarily impaired, unless specific facts and
    circumstances indicate otherwise.

Marketable debt instruments
       when the fair value is
    significantly below amortized cost
     and/or  the
    significant decline has lasted for an extended period of time
    and we do not have the intent and ability to hold the investment
    for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in the
    foreseeable future. The evaluation that we use to determine
    whether a marketable debt instrument is other than temporarily
    impaired is based on the specific facts and circumstances
    present at the time of assessment, which include the
    consideration of the financial condition and liquidity of the
    issuer, the issuer s credit rating, specific events that
    may cause us to believe that the debt instrument will not mature
    and be paid in full, and the duration and extent to which the
    fair value is below cost.

Investments that we identify as
    having an indicator of impairment are subject to further
    analysis to determine if the investment is other than
    temporarily impaired, in which case we write down the investment
    to its fair value. We record impairment charges for:

marketable equity securities and
    non-marketable cost method investments in gains (losses) on
    other equity investments, net;

non-marketable and marketable
    equity method investments in gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net; and

marketable debt instruments in
    interest and other, net.

62

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

Our primary objective for holding
    derivative financial instruments is to manage currency exchange
    rate risk and interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, equity
    market risk and commodity price risk. Our derivative financial
    instruments are recorded at fair value and are included in other
    current assets, other long-term assets, other accrued
    liabilities, or other long-term liabilities. Derivative
    instruments recorded as assets totaled $173 million as of
    December 27, 2008 ($118 million as of
    December 29, 2007). Derivative instruments recorded as
    liabilities totaled $299 million as of December 27,
    2008 ($130 million as of December 29, 2007). For
    further discussion of our derivative instruments, see
     Note 8: Derivative Financial Instruments. 

Our accounting policies for
    derivative financial instruments are based on whether they meet
    the criteria for designation as cash flow or fair value hedges.
    A designated hedge of the exposure to variability in the future
    cash flows of an asset or a liability, or of a forecasted
    transaction, is referred to as a cash flow hedge. A designated
    hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or a
    liability, or of an unrecognized firm commitment, is referred to
    as a fair value hedge. The criteria for designating a derivative
    as a hedge include the assessment of the instrument s
    effectiveness in risk reduction, matching of the derivative
    instrument to its underlying transaction, and the probability
    that the underlying transaction will occur. For derivatives with
    cash flow hedge accounting designation, we report the after-tax
    gain or loss from the effective portion of the hedge as a
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
    reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods in
    which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and within the
    same income statement line item as the impact of the hedged
    transaction. For derivatives with fair value hedge accounting
    designation, we recognize gains or losses from the change in
    fair value of these derivatives, as well as the offsetting
    change in the fair value of the underlying hedged item, in
    earnings. Derivatives that we designate as hedges are classified
    in the consolidated statements of cash flows in the same section
    as the underlying item, primarily within cash flows from
    operating activities.

We recognize gains and losses from
    changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as
    hedges for accounting purposes within the income statement line
    item most closely associated with the economic underlying,
    primarily in interest and other, net, except for equity-related
    gains or losses, which we primarily record in gains (losses) on
    other equity investments, net. Derivatives not designated as
    hedges are classified in cash flows from operating activities.

As part of our strategic
    investment program, we also acquire equity derivative
    instruments, such as warrants and equity conversion rights
    associated with debt instruments, which we do not designate as
    hedging instruments. We recognize the gains or losses from
    changes in fair values of these equity derivative instruments in
    gains (losses) on other equity investments, net.

Measurement
    of Effectiveness  

Effectiveness for forwards
       is generally measured
    by comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the
    hedge contract with the cumulative change in the present value
    of the forecasted cash flows of the hedged item. For currency
    forward contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related
    to capital purchases, forward points are excluded, and
    effectiveness is measured using spot rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item. For currency forward
    contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related to
    operating expenditures, forward points are included and
    effectiveness is measured using forward rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item.

Effectiveness for currency
    options and equity options with hedge accounting designation
       is generally measured
    by comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the
    hedge contract with the cumulative change in the fair value of
    an option instrument representing the hedged risks in the hedged
    item for cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, time value is
    excluded and effectiveness is measured based on spot rates to
    value both the hedge contract and the hedged item.

Effectiveness for interest rate
    swaps    is generally
    measured by comparing the change in fair value of the hedged
    item with the change in fair value of the interest rate swap.

If a cash flow hedge were
    discontinued because it was no longer probable that the original
    hedged transaction would occur as anticipated, the unrealized
    gain or loss on the related derivative would be reclassified
    into earnings. Subsequent gains or losses on the related
    derivative instrument would be recognized in income in each
    period until the instrument matures, is terminated, is
    re-designated as a qualified hedge, or is sold. Any ineffective
    portion of both cash flow and fair value hedges, as well as
    amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness, is
    recognized in earnings in interest and other, net.

63

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Securities
    Lending   

We may enter into securities
    lending agreements with financial institutions, generally to
    facilitate hedging and certain investment transactions. Selected
    securities may be loaned, secured by collateral in the form of
    cash or securities. The loaned securities continue to be carried
    as investment assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Cash
    collateral is recorded as an asset with a corresponding
    liability. For lending agreements collateralized by securities,
    we do not record the collateral as an asset or a liability,
    unless the collateral is repledged.

Inventories   

We compute inventory cost on a
    currently adjusted standard basis (which approximates actual
    cost on an average or
     first-in, 
    first-out basis). The valuation of inventory requires us to
    estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that
    is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or
    excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for
    our products. It is reasonably possible that our estimate of
    future demand for our products could change in the near term and
    result in additional inventory write-offs, which would
    negatively impact our gross margin. Inventory in excess of
    saleable amounts is not valued, and the remaining inventory is
    valued at the lower of cost or market. Inventories at fiscal
    year-ends were as follows:

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment, net
    at fiscal year-ends was as follows:

We state property, plant and
    equipment at cost, less accumulated depreciation. We compute
    depreciation for financial reporting purposes using the
    straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:
    machinery and equipment, 2 to 4 years; buildings, 4 to 40 years.
    We regularly perform reviews if facts and circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable or
    that the useful life is shorter than we had originally
    estimated. We assess the recoverability of our assets held for
    use by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows
    associated with the related asset or group of assets over their
    remaining estimated useful lives against their respective
    carrying amounts. Impairment, if any, is based on the excess of
    the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. If we
    determine that the useful lives are shorter than we had
    originally estimated, we depreciate the net book value of the
    assets over the newly determined remaining useful lives. For a
    discussion of restructuring-related asset impairment charges,
    see  Note 15: Restructuring and Asset Impairment
    Charges. 

We identify property, plant and
    equipment as held for sale when it meets the criteria of SFAS
    No. 144,  Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of
    Long-Lived Assets.  We reclassify held for sale assets to
    other current assets and cease recording depreciation.

64

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

We capitalize interest on
    borrowings related to eligible capital expenditures. We add
    capitalized interest to the cost of qualified assets and
    amortize it over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We
    record capital-related government grants earned as a reduction
    to property, plant and equipment.

Goodwill   

We record goodwill when the
    purchase price of an acquisition exceeds the estimated fair
    value of the net identified tangible and intangible assets
    acquired. Each year during the fourth quarter, we perform an
    impairment review for each reporting unit using a fair value
    approach. Reporting units may be operating segments as a whole
    or an operation one level below an operating segment, referred
    to as a component. In determining the carrying value of the
    reporting unit, we make an allocation of our manufacturing and
    assembly and test assets because of the interchangeable nature
    of our manufacturing and assembly and test capacity. We base
    this allocation on each reporting unit s relative
    percentage utilization of the manufacturing and assembly and
    test assets. In the event that an individual business within a
    reporting unit is divested, we allocate goodwill to that
    business based on its fair value relative to its reporting unit.
    For further discussion of goodwill, see  Note 13:
    Goodwill. 

Identified
    Intangible Assets   

Intellectual property assets
    primarily represent rights acquired under technology licenses
    and are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    periods of benefit, ranging from 3 to 17 years. We amortize
    acquisition-related developed technology on a straight-line
    basis over approximately 4 years. We amortize other intangible
    assets over 4 years. We classify all identified intangible
    assets within other long-term assets. In the quarter following
    the period in which identified intangible assets become fully
    amortized, the fully amortized balances are removed from the
    gross asset and accumulated amortization amounts. For further
    discussion of identified intangible assets, see  Note 14:
    Identified Intangible Assets. 

We perform a quarterly review of
    identified intangible assets to determine if facts and
    circumstances indicate that the useful life is shorter than we
    had originally estimated or that the carrying amount of assets
    may not be recoverable. If such facts and circumstances exist,
    we assess the recoverability of identified intangible assets by
    comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated
    with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining
    lives against their respective carrying amounts. Impairments, if
    any, are based on the excess of the carrying amount over the
    fair value of those assets.

Product
    Warranty   

We generally sell products with a
    limited warranty on product quality and a limited
    indemnification for customers against intellectual property
    infringement claims related to our products. We accrue for known
    warranty and indemnification issues if a loss is probable and
    can be reasonably estimated, and accrue for estimated incurred
    but unidentified issues based on historical activity. The
    accrual and the related expense for known issues were not
    significant during the periods presented. Due to product testing
    and the short time typically between product shipment and the
    detection and correction of product failures, and considering
    the historical rate of payments on indemnification claims, the
    accrual and related expense for estimated incurred but
    unidentified issues were not significant during the periods
    presented.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize net revenue when the
    earnings process is complete, as evidenced by an agreement with
    the customer, transfer of title, and acceptance, if applicable,
    as well as fixed pricing and probable collectibility. We record
    pricing allowances, including discounts based on contractual
    arrangements with customers, when we recognize revenue as a
    reduction to both accounts receivable and net revenue. Because
    of frequent sales price reductions and rapid technology
    obsolescence in the industry, we defer the revenue and related
    costs of sales from sales made to distributors under agreements
    allowing price protection
     and/or  right
    of return until the distributors sell the merchandise. The right
    of return granted generally consists of a stock rotation program
    in which distributors are able to exchange certain products
    based on the number of qualified purchases made by the
    distributor. Under the price protection program, we give
    distributors credits for the difference between the original
    price paid and the current price that we offer. We record the
    net deferred income from sales to distributors on our balance
    sheet as deferred income on shipments to distributors. We
    include shipping charges billed to customers in net revenue, and
    include the related shipping costs in cost of sales.

65

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Advertising   

Cooperative advertising programs
    reimburse customers for marketing activities for certain of our
    products, subject to defined criteria. We accrue cooperative
    advertising obligations and record the costs at the same time
    that the related revenue is recognized. We record cooperative
    advertising costs as marketing, general and administrative
    expenses to the extent that an advertising benefit separate from
    the revenue transaction can be identified and the fair value of
    that advertising benefit received is determinable. We record any
    excess in cash paid over the fair value of the advertising
    benefit received as a reduction in revenue. Advertising costs
    recorded within marketing, general and administrative expenses
    were $1.86 billion in 2008 ($1.90 billion in 2007 and $2.32
    billion in 2006).

Employee
    Equity Incentive Plans   

We have employee equity incentive
    plans, which are described more fully in  Note 19: Employee
    Equity Incentive Plans.  Effective January 1, 2006, we
    adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)). SFAS No.
    123(R) requires employee equity awards to be accounted for under
    the fair value method. Accordingly, we measure share-based
    compensation at the grant date based on the fair value of the
    award.

Under the modified prospective
    method of adoption for SFAS No. 123(R), the compensation cost
    that we recognized beginning in 2006 includes compensation cost
    for all equity incentive awards granted prior to but not yet
    vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No.
    123, and compensation cost for all equity incentive awards
    granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date
    fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
    No. 123(R). We use the straight-line attribution method to
    recognize share-based compensation over the service period of
    the award. Upon exercise, cancellation, forfeiture, or
    expiration of stock options, or upon vesting or forfeiture of
    restricted stock units, we eliminate deferred tax assets for
    options and restricted stock units with multiple vesting dates
    for each vesting period on a
     first-in, 
    first-out basis as if each vesting period were a separate award.

Accounting
    Changes   

Fiscal
    Year 2006  

Effective at the end of fiscal
    year 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158
    requires that the funded status of defined-benefit
    postretirement plans be recognized on our consolidated balance
    sheets and that changes in the funded status be reflected in
    other comprehensive income. SFAS No. 158 also requires that the
    measurement date of the plan s funded status be the same as
    our fiscal year-end. Prior to adopting the provisions of SFAS
    No. 158, the measurement date for all
     non-U.S. 
    plans was our fiscal year-end, and the measurement date for the
    U.S. plan was November. Therefore, the change in measurement
    date had an insignificant impact on the projected benefit
    obligation and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
    Upon adoption of SFAS No. 158 in 2006, we recorded an
    adjustment, net of tax, of $210 million to accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss).

Fiscal
    Year 2007  

In fiscal year 2007, we adopted
    EITF Issue No.
     06-2, 
     Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
    Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 43  (EITF
     06-2).  EITF
     06-2 
    requires companies to accrue the cost of these compensated
    absences over the service period. We adopted EITF
     06-2  through
    a cumulative-effect adjustment, resulting in an additional
    liability of $280 million, additional deferred tax assets of $99
    million, and a reduction in retained earnings of $181 million at
    the beginning of 2007.

We also adopted Financial
    Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48), and
    related guidance in fiscal year 2007. For further discussion,
    see  Note 23: Taxes. 

66

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Fiscal
    Year 2008  

In the first quarter of 2008, we
    adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS
    No. 157), for all financial assets and financial liabilities,
    and for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities
    recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial
    statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). SFAS No.
    157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
    fair value, and enhances fair value measurement disclosure. The
    adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a significant impact on
    our consolidated financial statements, and the resulting fair
    values calculated under SFAS No. 157 after adoption were not
    significantly different from the fair values that would have
    been calculated under previous guidance. For further details on
    our fair value measurements, see  Note 3: Fair Value. 

In February 2008, the FASB issued
    FASB Staff Position (FSP)
     157-1, 
     Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement
    No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair
    Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or
    Measurement under Statement 13  (FSP
     157-1),  and
    FSP  157-2, 
     Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  (FSP
     157-2).  FSP
     157-1  amends
    SFAS No. 157 to remove certain leasing transactions from its
    scope and was effective upon initial adoption of SFAS No. 157.
    FSP  157-2 
    delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all non-financial
    assets and non-financial liabilities (for further details, see
     Recent Accounting Pronouncements  below).

In October 2008, the FASB issued
    FSP  157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active  (FSP
     157-3).  FSP
     157-3 
    clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in a market that is
    not active, and addresses application issues such as the use of
    internal assumptions when relevant observable data does not
    exist, the use of observable market information when the market
    is not active, and the use of market quotes when assessing the
    relevance of observable and unobservable data. FSP
     157-3  is
    effective for all periods presented in accordance with SFAS No.
    157. The adoption of FSP
     157-3  did
    not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial
    statements or the fair values of our financial assets and
    liabilities.

In the first quarter of 2008, we
    adopted SFAS No. 159. SFAS No. 159 permits companies to choose
    to measure certain financial instruments and other items at fair
    value using an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    election. The standard requires unrealized gains and losses to
    be reported in earnings for items measured using the fair value
    option. For further discussion, see  Note 3: Fair
    Value. 

SFAS No. 159 also requires cash
    flows from purchases, sales, and maturities of trading
    securities to be classified based on the nature and purpose for
    which the securities were acquired. We assessed the nature and
    purpose of our trading assets and determined that our marketable
    debt instruments will be classified on the statement of cash
    flows as investing activities, as they are held with the purpose
    of generating returns. Our equity securities offsetting deferred
    compensation will continue to be classified as operating
    activities, as they are maintained to offset changes in
    liabilities related to the equity market risk of certain
    deferred compensation arrangements. SFAS No. 159 does not allow
    for retrospective application to periods prior to fiscal year
    2008; therefore, all trading asset activity for prior periods
    will continue to be presented as operating activities on the
    statement of cash flows.

Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110
    (SAB 110) issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC) was effective for us beginning in the first quarter of
    2008. SAB 110 amends the SEC s views discussed in Staff
    Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107) regarding the use of the
    simplified method in developing estimates of the expected lives
    of share options in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R). The
    amendment, in part, allowed the continued use, subject to
    specific criteria, of the simplified method in estimating the
    expected lives of share options granted after December 31, 2007.
    We will continue to use the simplified method until we have the
    historical data necessary to provide reasonable estimates of
    expected lives in accordance with SAB 107, as amended by SAB 110.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2007, the FASB issued
    SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations 
    (SFAS No. 141(R)). Under SFAS No. 141(R), an entity is required
    to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed,
    contractual contingencies, and contingent consideration at their
    fair value on the acquisition date. It further requires that
    acquisition-related costs be recognized separately from the
    acquisition and expensed as incurred, restructuring costs
    generally be expensed in periods subsequent to the acquisition
    date, and changes in accounting for deferred tax asset valuation
    allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after the
    measurement period impact income tax expense. In addition,
    acquired in-process research and development is capitalized as
    an intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful
    life. The adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will change our accounting
    treatment for business combinations on a prospective basis
    beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009.

67

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In February 2008, the FASB issued
    FSP  157-2, 
    which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all
    non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for
    items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
    financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually),
    until the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2009.
    The adoption of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and
    non-financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value on
    a recurring basis is not expected to have a significant impact
    on our consolidated financial statements.

In March 2008, the FASB issued
    SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No.
    133  (SFAS No. 161). The standard requires additional
    quantitative disclosures (provided in tabular form) and
    qualitative disclosures for derivative instruments. The required
    disclosures include how derivative instruments and related
    hedged items affect an entity s financial position,
    financial performance, and cash flows; the relative volume of
    derivative activity; the objectives and strategies for using
    derivative instruments; the accounting treatment for those
    derivative instruments formally designated as the hedging
    instrument in a hedge relationship; and the existence and nature
    of credit-risk-related contingent features for derivatives. SFAS
    No. 161 does not change the accounting treatment for derivative
    instruments. SFAS No. 161 is effective for us beginning in the
    first quarter of fiscal year 2009.

In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP
    Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion
     14-1, 
     Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be
    Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash
    Settlement)  (FSP APB
     14-1).  FSP
    APB  14-1 
    requires recognition of both the liability and equity components
    of convertible debt instruments with cash settlement features.
    The debt component is required to be recognized at the fair
    value of a similar instrument that does not have an associated
    equity component. The equity component is recognized as the
    difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the note
    and the fair value of the liability. FSP APB
     14-1  also
    requires an accretion of the resulting debt discount over the
    expected life of the debt. Retrospective application to all
    periods presented is required. This standard is effective for us
    beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and will
    change the accounting for our junior subordinated convertible
    debentures issued in 2005. The adoption of FSP APB
     14-1  is
    expected to result in a decrease in our long-term debt of
    approximately $700 million; an increase in our deferred tax
    liability of approximately $275 million; an increase in our
    stockholders  equity of approximately $450 million; and an
    increase in our net property, plant and equipment of
    approximately $25 million as of the beginning of the first
    quarter of fiscal year 2009. The adoption of FSP APB
     14-1  will
    not result in a change to our prior-period consolidated
    statements of income, as the interest associated with our debt
    issuances is capitalized and added to the cost of qualified
    assets.

In December 2008, the FASB issued
    FSP 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP 132(R)-1). FSP
    132(R)-1 requires additional disclosures for plan assets of
    defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. The
    required disclosures include a description of our investment
    policies and strategies, the fair value of each major category
    of plan assets, the inputs and valuation techniques used to
    measure the fair value of plan assets, the effect of fair value
    measurements using significant unobservable inputs on changes in
    plan assets, and the significant concentrations of risk within
    plan assets. FSP 132(R)-1 does not change the accounting
    treatment for postretirement benefits plans. FSP 132(R)-1 is
    effective for us for fiscal year 2009.

Note 3:
    Fair Value  

Our financial instruments are
    carried at fair value, except for cost basis loan participation
    notes, equity method and cost method investments, and most of
    our long-term debt. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price
    that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer
    a liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants at the measurement date. When determining fair
    value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in
    which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market
    participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such
    as inherent risk, transfer restrictions, and risk of
    non-performance.

68

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Our financial instruments carried
    at fair value are detailed in the tables below, and the carrying
    values of our trading assets and available-for-sale investments
    for 2008 and 2007 are detailed in  Note 4: Trading
    Assets  and  Note 5: Available-for-Sale
    Investments.  The fair value of our cost basis loan
    participation notes approximated the carrying value as of
    December 27, 2008 (the fair value exceeded the carrying
    value by approximately $50 million as of December 29,
    2007). We did not hold any marketable equity method investments
    as of December 27, 2008; however, as of December 29,
    2007, the fair value of our marketable equity method investment
    exceeded the carrying value by $14 million. The fair value
    of our non-marketable equity investments exceeded the carrying
    value by approximately $300 million as of December 27,
    2008 and included gross unrealized losses of approximately
    $100 million, a majority of which were in a continuous
    unrealized loss position for less than 12 months. The fair
    value of our non-marketable equity investments exceeded the
    carrying value by approximately $600 million as of
    December 29, 2007. The fair value of these investments
    takes into account the movements of the equity and venture
    capital markets as well as changes in the interest rate
    environment, and other economic variables.

The fair value of our long-term
    debt was approximately $280 million lower than the carrying
    value as of December 27, 2008 (the fair value exceeded the
    carrying value by approximately $65 million as of
    December 29, 2007). The fair value of our long-term debt
    takes into consideration credit rating changes, equity price
    movements, interest rate changes, and other economic variables.

Fair
    Value Hierarchy   

SFAS No. 157 establishes
    three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:

Level 1.    Quoted
    prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 1 assets and
    liabilities consist of certain of our money market fund deposits
    and marketable debt and equity instruments, including equity
    securities offsetting deferred compensation, that are traded in
    an active market with sufficient volume and frequency of
    transactions.

Level 2.    Observable
    inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for
    similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with
    insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active
    markets), or model-derived valuations in which all significant
    inputs are observable or can be derived principally from or
    corroborated with observable market data for substantially the
    full term of the assets or liabilities.

Level 2 assets consist of
    certain of our marketable debt and equity instruments with
    quoted market prices that are traded in less active markets or
    priced using a quoted market price for similar instruments.
    Level 2 assets also include marketable debt instruments
    priced using non-binding market consensus prices that can be
    corroborated with observable market data, marketable equity
    securities with security-specific restrictions that would
    transfer to the buyer, as well as debt instruments and
    derivative contracts priced using inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated
    with observable market data. Marketable debt instruments in this
    category generally include commercial paper, bank time deposits,
    municipal bonds, certain of our money market fund deposits, and
    a majority of floating-rate notes and corporate bonds.

Level 3.    Unobservable
    inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the
    measurement of the fair value of assets or liabilities.

Level 3 assets and
    liabilities include marketable debt instruments, non-marketable
    equity investments, derivative contracts, and company-issued
    debt whose values are determined using inputs that are both
    unobservable and significant to the values of the instruments
    being measured. Level 3 assets also include marketable debt
    instruments that are priced using non-binding market consensus
    prices or non-binding broker quotes that we were unable to
    corroborate with observable market data. Marketable debt
    instruments in this category generally include asset-backed
    securities and certain of our floating-rate notes and corporate
    bonds.

69

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Assets/Liabilities
    Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   

Assets and liabilities measured at
    fair value on a recurring basis, excluding accrued interest
    components, consisted of the following types of instruments as
    of December 27, 2008:

Assets and liabilities measured
    and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding
    accrued interest components, were presented on our consolidated
    balance sheets as of December 27, 2008 as follows:

70

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

All of our long-term debt was
    eligible for the fair value option allowed by
    SFAS No. 159 as of the effective date of the standard;
    however, we elected the fair value option only for the bonds
    issued in 2007 by the Industrial Development Authority of the
    City of Chandler, Arizona (2007 Arizona bonds). In connection
    with the 2007 Arizona bonds, we entered into an interest rate
    swap agreement that effectively converts the fixed rate
    obligation on the bonds to a floating LIBOR-based rate. As a
    result, changes in the fair value of this debt are primarily
    offset by changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap
    agreement, without the need to apply the hedge accounting
    provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
    (SFAS No. 133). We elected not to adopt
    SFAS No. 159 for our Arizona bonds issued in 2005,
    since the bonds were carried at amortized cost and were not
    eligible to apply the hedge accounting provisions of
    SFAS No. 133 due to the use of non-derivative hedging
    instruments. The 2007 Arizona bonds are included within the
    long-term debt balance on our consolidated balance sheets. As of
    December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, no other
    long-term debt instruments were similar to the instrument for
    which we have elected the SFAS No. 159 fair value
    treatment.

The fair value of the 2007 Arizona
    bonds approximated its carrying value at the time we elected the
    fair value option under SFAS No. 159. As such, we did
    not record a cumulative-effect adjustment to the beginning
    balance of retained earnings or to the deferred tax liability.
    As of December 27, 2008, the fair value of the 2007 Arizona
    bonds did not significantly differ from the contractual
    principal balance. The fair value of the 2007 Arizona bonds was
    determined using inputs that are observable in the market or
    that can be derived from or corroborated with observable market
    data as well as significant unobservable inputs. Gains and
    losses on the 2007 Arizona bonds are recorded in interest and
    other, net on the consolidated statements of income. We
    capitalize interest associated with the 2007 Arizona bonds. We
    add capitalized interest to the cost of qualified assets and
    amortize it over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

The table below presents a
    reconciliation for all assets and liabilities measured at fair
    value on a recurring basis, excluding accrued interest
    components, using significant unobservable inputs
    (Level 3) for 2008:

71

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Gains and losses (realized and
    unrealized) included in earnings for the year ended
    December 27, 2008 are reported in interest and other, net
    and gains (losses) on other equity investments, net on the
    consolidated statements of income, as follows:

Level 3 

2008 

Gains (Losses) 

Interest and 

on Other Equity 

(In Millions) 

Other, Net 

Investments, Net 

Total gains (losses) included in earnings

$

(115

)

$

4

Change in unrealized gains (losses) related to assets and
    liabilities still held as of December 27, 2008

$

(115

)

$

4

Assets/Liabilities
    Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis   

The following table presents the
    financial instruments that were measured at fair value on a
    non-recurring basis as of December 27, 2008, and the gains
    (losses) recorded during 2008 on those assets:

1   

Our carrying value as of December 27, 2008 did not equal
    our fair value measurement at the time of impairment due to the
    subsequent recognition of equity method adjustments.  

A portion of our non-marketable
    equity investments were measured at fair value during 2008 due
    to events or circumstances we identified that significantly
    impacted the fair value of these investments, resulting in
    other-than-temporary impairment charges.

During the fourth quarter of 2008,
    we recorded a $762 million impairment charge on our
    investment in Clearwire Communications, LLC (Clearwire
    LLC) to write down our investment to its fair value,
    primarily due to the fair value being significantly lower than
    the cost basis of our investment. The impairment charge was
    included in gains (losses) on equity method investments, net on
    the consolidated statements of income. We determine the fair
    value of our investment in Clearwire LLC primarily using the
    quoted prices for its parent company, the new Clearwire
    Corporation. The effects of adjusting the quoted price for
    premiums that we believe market participants would consider for
    Clearwire LLC, such as tax benefits and voting rights associated
    with our investment, were mostly offset by the effects of
    discounts to the fair value, such as those due to transfer
    restrictions, lack of liquidity, and differences in dividend
    rights that are included in the value of the new Clearwire
    Corporation stock. We classified our investment in Clearwire LLC
    as Level 2, as the unobservable inputs to the valuation
    methodology were not significant to the measurement of fair
    value. For additional information about Clearwire, see
     Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments. 

72

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

We recorded a $250 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx B.V. during the
    third quarter of 2008 to write down our investment to its fair
    value. Estimates for revenue, earnings, and future cash flows
    were revised lower due to a general decline in the NOR flash
    memory market segment. We measure the fair value of our
    investment in Numonyx using a combination of the income approach
    and the market approach. The income approach included the use of
    a weighted average of multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of
    Numonyx, which required the use of unobservable inputs,
    including assumptions of projected revenue, expenses, capital
    spending, and other costs, as well as a discount rate calculated
    based on the risk profile of the flash memory market segment.
    The market approach included using financial metrics and ratios
    of comparable public companies. The impairment charge was
    included in gains (losses) on equity method investments, net on
    the consolidated statements of income.

We also measured other
    non-marketable equity investments at fair value during 2008 when
    we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges. We
    classified these impaired non-marketable equity investments as
    Level 3, as we use unobservable inputs to the valuation
    methodology that are significant to the fair value measurement,
    and the valuation requires management judgment due to the
    absence of quoted market prices and inherent lack of liquidity.
    We calculated these fair value measurements using the market
    approach
     and/or  the
    income approach. The market approach includes the use of
    financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies. The
    selection of comparable companies requires management judgment
    and is based on a number of factors, including comparable
    companies  sizes, growth rates, products and services
    lines, development stage, and other relevant factors. The income
    approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which
    requires the following significant estimates for the investee:
    revenue, based on assumed market segment size and assumed market
    segment share; estimated costs; and appropriate discount rates
    based on the risk profile of comparable companies. Estimates of
    market segment size, market segment share, and costs are
    developed by the investee
     and/or  Intel
    using historical data and available market data. The valuation
    of our other non-marketable equity investments also takes into
    account movements of the equity and venture capital markets,
    recent financing activities by the investees, changes in the
    interest rate environment, the investee s capital
    structure, liquidation preferences for the investee s
    capital, and other economic variables. The valuation of some of
    our investments in the wireless connectivity market segment was
    based on the income approach to determine the value of the
    investee s spectrum licenses, transmission towers, and
    customer lists.

Note 4:
    Trading Assets  

Trading assets outstanding at
    fiscal year-ends were as follows:

Net losses on marketable debt
    instruments that we classified as trading assets held at the
    reporting date were $132 million in 2008 (gains of
    $19 million in 2007 and $31 million in 2006). Our net
    losses in 2008 on marketable debt instruments that we classified
    as trading assets held at the reporting date included
    $87 million of losses related to asset-backed securities.
    Net losses on the related derivatives were $5 million in
    2008 (losses of $37 million in 2007 and $22 million in
    2006). We maintain certain equity securities within our trading
    assets portfolio to generate returns that seek to offset changes
    in liabilities related to the equity market risk of certain
    deferred compensation arrangements. These deferred compensation
    liabilities were $332 million in 2008 ($483 million in
    2007) and are included in other accrued liabilities. Net
    losses on equity securities offsetting deferred compensation
    arrangements still held at the reporting date were
    $209 million in 2008 (gains of $28 million in 2007 and
    $45 million in 2006).

73

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 5:
    Available-for-Sale Investments  

Available-for-sale investments as
    of December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007 were as
    follows:

During the fourth quarter of 2008,
    Clearwire Corporation and Sprint Nextel Corporation combined
    their respective WiMAX businesses in conjunction with additional
    capital contributions from Intel and other investors to form a
    new company that retained the name Clearwire Corporation. The
    additional capital contributions included our cash investment of
    $1.0 billion. Our pre-existing investment in Clearwire
    Corporation (old Clearwire Corporation) was converted into
    shares of the new company (new Clearwire Corporation) and the
    additional capital contribution of $1.0 billion was
    invested in Clearwire Communications, LLC (Clearwire LLC), a
    wholly owned subsidiary of the new Clearwire Corporation. Our
    investment in the new Clearwire Corporation is accounted for as
    an available-for-sale investment and

74

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

included in marketable equity
    securities. Our investment in Clearwire LLC is accounted for
    under the equity method and included within other long-term
    assets. As a result of the formation of the new Clearwire
    Corporation, our total ownership percentage decreased from 22%
    to 13%, resulting in a loss upon dilution of $34 million,
    which we recorded to gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net. For further discussion of our equity method
    investment in Clearwire LLC, see  Note 6: Equity
    Method and Cost Method Investments. 

We sold available-for-sale
    investments, primarily marketable debt instruments, for proceeds
    of approximately $1.2 billion in 2008. The gross realized
    gains on sales of available-for-sale investments totaled
    $38 million and were primarily related to our sales of
    marketable equity securities. Impairment charges recognized on
    available-for-sale investments were $354 million in 2008.
    The impairment charges in 2008 were primarily related to a
    $176 million impairment charge on our investment in the new
    Clearwire Corporation and $97 million of impairment charges
    on our investment in Micron Technology, Inc. Gross realized
    losses on sales were insignificant during 2008.

We sold available-for-sale
    investments for proceeds of approximately $1.7 billion in
    2007 and $2.0 billion in 2006. The gross realized gains on
    our sales totaled $138 million in 2007 and
    $135 million in 2006. The gain in 2006 included a gain of
    $103 million from the sale of a portion of our investment
    in Micron. We realized gains on third-party merger transactions
    that were insignificant during 2007 and $79 million during
    2006. Our recognized impairment charges on available-for-sale
    investments as well as gross realized losses on sales were
    insignificant during 2007 and 2006.

The available-for-sale investments
    that were in a continuous unrealized loss position as of
    December 27, 2008, aggregated by length of time that
    individual securities have been in a continuous loss position,
    were as follows:

The available-for-sale investments
    in a continuous unrealized loss position as of December 29,
    2007 were as follows:

1   

Investments that were in a continuous unrealized loss
    position for 12 months or greater were not significant as
    of December 29, 2007.  

As of December 27, 2008, the
    unrealized losses on our available-for-sale investments
    represented an insignificant amount in relation to our total
    available-for-sale portfolio. Substantially all of our
    unrealized losses on our available-for-sale marketable debt
    instruments can be attributed to fair value fluctuations in an
    unstable credit environment that resulted in a decrease in the
    market liquidity for debt instruments. As of December 27,
    2008, a substantial majority of our available-for-sale
    investments in asset-backed securities in an unrealized loss
    position were rated AA-/Aa2 or better, and the majority of our
    available-for-sale investments in floating-rate notes and
    corporate bonds in an unrealized loss position were rated
    AA-/Aa2 or better. With the exception of a limited amount of
    investments for which we have recognized other-than-temporary
    impairments, we have not seen significant liquidation delays,
    and for those that have matured we have

75

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

received the full par value of our original debt investments. We
    have the intent and ability to hold our debt investments that
    have unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive income
    for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery of the
    principal amounts invested, which may occur at or near the
    maturity of those investments. The substantial majority of the
    $43 million of unrealized losses for marketable equity
    securities was attributed to the fair value decline of our
    investment in Micron. We believe that the unrealized losses in
    all of the above investments are temporary and that these losses
    do not represent a need for an other-than-temporary impairment,
    based on our evaluation of available evidence as of
    December 27, 2008.

The amortized cost and fair value
    of available-for-sale investments as of December 27, 2008,
    by contractual maturity, were as follows:

Instruments not due at a single
    maturity date include asset-backed securities and money market
    fund deposits.

Note 6:
    Equity Method and Cost Method Investments  

Equity
    Method Investments   

Equity method investments as of
    December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007 were as
    follows:

1   

Represents our interest in the Clearwire LLC holding company,
    as a percentage of the consolidated new Clearwire
    Corporation.  

2   

Our pre-existing investment in the old Clearwire Corporation
    was converted into shares of the new Clearwire Corporation and
    is recorded as a marketable equity security. For further
    discussion, see  Note 5: Available-for-Sale
    Investments.   

Our equity method investments are
    classified in other long-term assets on the consolidated balance
    sheets. The carrying value of our equity method investments,
    categorized as non-marketable and marketable equity method
    investments, as of December 27, 2008 and December 29,
    2007, were as follows:

76

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Net losses on equity method
    investments were $1.4 billion in 2008 (net gains of
    $3 million in 2007 and $2 million in 2006), including
    equity method impairment charges of $1.1 billion in 2008
    ($28 million in 2007 and $7 million in 2006). During
    2008, we recognized a $762 million impairment charge on our
    investment in Clearwire LLC (for information on the impairment
    of our available-for-sale investment in the new Clearwire
    Corporation, see  Note 7: Gains (Losses) on Other Equity
    Investments, Net ) and a $250 million impairment
    charge on our investment in Numonyx. Equity method losses on our
    investment in the old Clearwire Corporation were
    $184 million in 2008 and $104 million in 2007, and
    equity method losses on our investment in Numonyx were
    $87 million in 2008. In addition, the net gain on equity
    method investments in 2007 included approximately
    $110 million of income due to the reorganization of one of
    our investments. Equity method losses were not significant in
    2006.

Summarized
    Financial Information of Equity Method Investees  

The following is the aggregated
    summarized financial information of our equity method investees,
    which includes summary results of operations information for
    fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006 and summary balance sheet
    information as of December 27, 2008 and December 29,
    2007:

Summarized financial information
    for our equity method investees is presented on the basis of up
    to a one-quarter lag and is included for the periods in which we
    held an equity method ownership interest. Summarized financial
    information for Clearwire Corporation is presented as of
    September 30, 2008, and does not reflect any changes that
    have occurred as a result of Clearwire Corporation and Sprint
    Nextel Corporation combining their respective WiMAX businesses
    in the fourth quarter of 2008.

IMFT/IMFS  

Micron and Intel formed IM Flash
    Technologies, LLC (IMFT) in January 2006 and IM Flash Singapore,
    LLP (IMFS) in February 2007. We established these joint ventures
    to manufacture NAND flash memory products for Micron and Intel.
    Intel owns a 49% interest in each of these ventures. Our
    investments were $1.7 billion in IMFT and $329 million
    in IMFS as of December 27, 2008 ($2.2 billion in IMFT
    and $146 million in IMFS as of December 29, 2007). Our
    investments in these ventures are classified within other
    long-term assets. During 2008, IMFT returned $298 million
    to Intel, and that amount is reflected as a return of equity
    method investment within investing activities on the
    consolidated statements of cash flows.

As part of the initial capital
    contribution to IMFT, we paid $615 million in cash and
    issued $581 million in non-interest-bearing notes. During
    2006, we paid the entire balance of $581 million to settle
    the non-interest-bearing notes, which has been reflected as a
    financing activity on the consolidated statements of cash flows.
    At inception, Micron contributed assets valued at
    $995 million and $250 million in cash in exchange for
    a 51% interest. In addition, we contributed approximately
    $1.3 billion over the past three years pursuant to the
    terms of the original agreement.

77

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Initial production from IMFT began
    in early 2006. Our portion of IMFT costs, primarily related to
    product purchases and
     start-up, 
    was approximately $1.1 billion during 2008 (approximately
    $790 million during 2007 and $300 million during
    2006). The amount due to IMFT for product purchases and services
    provided was approximately $190 million as of
    December 27, 2008 and approximately $130 million as of
    December 29, 2007. Costs that Intel and Micron have
    incurred for product and process development related to IMFT are
    generally split evenly between Intel and Micron and are
    generally classified in research and development.

In the fourth quarter of 2008,
    management approved a plan with Micron to discontinue the supply
    of NAND flash memory from the 200mm facility within the IMFT
    manufacturing network. The agreement resulted in a
    $215 million restructuring charge primarily related to the
    IMFT 200mm supply agreement. The restructuring charge resulted
    in a reduction of our investment in IMFT of $184 million, a
    cash payment to Micron of $24 million, and other cash
    payments of $7 million.

Subject to certain conditions, we
    originally agreed to contribute up to approximately
    $1.7 billion for IMFS in the three years following the
    initial capital contributions, of which our maximum remaining
    commitment was approximately $1.3 billion as of
    December 27, 2008. However, the construction of the IMFS
    fabrication facility has been placed on hold.

IMFT and IMFS are each governed by
    a Board of Managers, with Micron and Intel initially appointing
    an equal number of managers to each of the boards. The number of
    managers appointed by each party adjusts depending on the
    parties  ownership interests. These ventures will operate
    until 2016 but are subject to prior termination under certain
    terms and conditions.

These joint ventures are variable
    interest entities as defined by FASB Interpretation
    No. 46(R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities  (FIN 46(R)), because all costs of the joint
    ventures will be passed on to Micron and Intel through our
    purchase agreements. IMFT and IMFS are dependent upon Micron and
    Intel for any additional cash requirements. Our known maximum
    exposure to loss approximated our investment balances as of
    December 27, 2008, which were $1.7 billion in IMFT and
    $329 million in IMFS ($2.2 billion in IMFT and
    $146 million in IMFS as of December 29, 2007). As of
    December 27, 2008, except for the amount due to IMFT and
    IMFS for product purchases and services, we did not incur any
    additional liabilities in connection with our interests in these
    joint ventures. In addition to the potential loss of our
    existing investments, our actual losses could be higher, as
    Intel and Micron are liable for other future operating costs
     and/or 
    obligations of IMFT and IMFS. In addition, future cash calls
    could increase our investment balance and the related exposure
    to loss. Finally, as we are currently committed to purchasing
    49% of IMFT s production output and production-related
    services, we may be required to purchase products at a cost in
    excess of realizable value.

Micron and Intel are also
    considered related parties under the provisions of
    FIN 46(R). As a result, the primary beneficiary is the
    entity that is most closely associated with the joint ventures.
    To make that determination, we reviewed several factors. The
    most important factors were consideration of the size and nature
    of the joint ventures  operations relative to Micron and
    Intel, and which party had the majority of economic exposure
    under the purchase agreements. Based on those factors, we have
    determined that Micron is most closely associated with the joint
    ventures; therefore, we account for our interests using the
    equity method of accounting and do not consolidate these joint
    ventures.

The fair value of our investment
    in IMFT and IMFS approximated carrying value as of
    December 27, 2008 and is included within other long-term
    assets. We determine the fair value of our investments in IMFT
    and IMFS and related intangible assets using the income
    approach, based on a weighted average of multiple discounted
    cash flow scenarios of our NAND Solutions Group business. The
    assumptions that most significantly affect the fair value
    determination are the estimates for the projected revenue and
    discount rate. It is reasonably possible that the estimates used
    in our valuation as of December 27, 2008 could change in
    the near term and result in an impairment of our investments.
    Based on our valuation as of December 27, 2008, a 5%
    decline in projected revenue in each of our cash flow scenarios
    would result in a decline in the fair value of our investment of
    up to approximately $300 million, and a one percentage
    point increase in the discount rate would result in a decline in
    the fair value of our investment by approximately
    $225 million.

In connection with an agreement
    between Intel and Apple, Inc. to supply a portion of the NAND
    flash memory output that we will purchase from IMFT, Apple
    provided a refundable $250 million pre-payment to Intel. In
    the fourth quarter of 2008, the NAND flash memory supply
    agreement was terminated, and the remaining portion of the
    pre-payment of $167 million was refunded to Apple.

78

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Clearwire
    LLC  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we
    invested $1.0 billion in Clearwire LLC, a wholly owned
    subsidiary of the new Clearwire Corporation. For further
    discussion, see  Note 5: Available-for-Sale
    Investments.  Our investment in Clearwire LLC is accounted
    for under the equity method of accounting, and our proportionate
    share of the income or loss is recognized on a one-quarter lag.
    As such, we did not record equity method adjustments during 2008
    related to Clearwire LLC. The cost basis of this investment was
    initially $17 per share, based on the transaction agreement
    entered into in the second quarter of 2008. During the fourth
    quarter of 2008, we recorded a $762 million impairment
    charge on our investment in Clearwire LLC to write down our
    investment to its fair value of $238 million. The
    impairment charge is included in gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net on the consolidated statements of income. For
    further discussion, see  Note 3: Fair Value. 

Numonyx  

In the second quarter of 2008, we
    divested our NOR flash memory business in exchange for a 45.1%
    ownership interest in Numonyx. For further discussion, see
     Note 12: Divestitures.  Our initial ownership
    interest, comprising common stock and a note receivable, was
    recorded at $821 million. Our investment is accounted for
    under the equity method of accounting, and our proportionate
    share of the income or loss is recognized on a one-quarter lag.
    During 2008, we recorded $87 million of equity method
    losses and a $250 million impairment charge on our
    investment in Numonyx within gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net. For further discussion, see  Note 3:
    Fair Value. 

As of December 27, 2008, our
    investment balance in Numonyx was $484 million and is
    included within other long-term assets. The carrying amount of
    our investment in Numonyx is approximately $400 million
    below our share of the book value of the net assets of Numonyx.
    Most of this difference has been assigned to specific Numonyx
    long-lived assets, and our proportionate share of Numonyx income
    or loss will be adjusted to recognize this difference over the
    estimated remaining useful lives of those long-lived assets.

Additional terms of our investment
    in Numonyx include:

We are leasing a facility in
    Israel to Numonyx for a period of up to 24 years under a
    fully paid, up-front operating lease. Upon completion of the
    divestiture, we recorded $82 million of deferred income
    representing the value of the prepaid operating lease. The
    deferred income will generally offset the related depreciation
    over the lease term.

We entered into supply and service
    agreements that involve the manufacture and the assembly and
    test of NOR flash memory products for Numonyx through 2008. The
    fair value of these agreements was $110 million and was
    recorded in other accrued liabilities upon completion of the
    transaction. This amount was recognized during 2008, primarily
    as a reduction of cost of sales. In the fourth quarter of 2008,
    we agreed with Numonyx to extend certain supply and service
    agreements through the end of 2009.

We entered into a transition
    services agreement that involves providing certain services,
    such as information technology, supply chain, and finance
    support, to Numonyx for up to one year. The reimbursement from
    Numonyx for these services offsets the related cost of sales and
    operating expenses.

Numonyx entered into an unsecured,
    four-year senior credit facility of up to $550 million,
    comprising a $450 million term loan and a $100 million
    revolving loan. Intel and STMicroelectronics N.V. have each
    provided the lenders with a guarantee of 50% of the payment
    obligations of Numonyx under the senior credit facility. A
    demand on our guarantee can be triggered if Numonyx is unable to
    meet its obligations under the credit facility. Acceleration of
    the obligations of Numonyx under the credit facility could be
    triggered by a monetary default of Numonyx or, in certain
    circumstances, by events affecting the creditworthiness of
    STMicroelectronics. This guarantee is within the scope of FASB
    Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting
    and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
    Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.  The maximum amount
    of future undiscounted payments that we could be required to
    make under the guarantee is $275 million plus accrued
    interest, expenses of the lenders, and penalties. As of
    December 27, 2008, the carrying amount of the liability
    associated with the guarantee was $79 million and is
    included in other accrued liabilities.

Our note receivable is
    subordinated to the senior credit facility and the preferential
    payout of Francisco Partners L.P., and will be deemed
    extinguished in liquidation events that generate proceeds
    insufficient to repay the senior credit facility and Francisco
    Partners  preferential payout.

79

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

As of December 27, 2008,
    approximately $37 million was included in accounts
    receivable, net for supply and service agreements related to the
    manufacture and assembly and test of NOR flash memory products
    by Intel on behalf of Numonyx. As of December 27, 2008,
    approximately $111 million was included in other current
    assets for amounts due to Intel from Numonyx, primarily for
    services performed under transition services agreements.

Cost
    Method Investments   

Our non-marketable cost method
    investments are classified in other long-term assets on the
    consolidated balance sheets. The carrying value of our
    non-marketable cost method investments was $1.0 billion as
    of December 27, 2008 and $805 million as of
    December 29, 2007. We recognized impairment charges on
    non-marketable cost method investments of $135 million in
    2008 ($90 million in 2007 and $71 million in 2006).

Note 7:
    Gains (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net  

Gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net includes gains (losses) on our equity
    investments that were not accounted for under the equity method
    of accounting, and were as follows for the three years ended
    December 27, 2008:

Impairment charges for 2008
    included a $176 million impairment charge recognized on our
    available-for-sale investment in the new Clearwire Corporation
    and $97 million of impairment charges on our investment in
    Micron (for information on the impairment of our equity method
    investment in Clearwire LLC, see  Note 6: Equity
    Method and Cost Method Investments ). The impairment charge
    on our investment in the new Clearwire Corporation was due to
    the fair value being significantly lower than the cost basis of
    our investment. The impairment charges on our investment in
    Micron reflect the difference between our cost basis and the
    fair value of our investment in Micron at the end of the second
    and third quarters of 2008, and were principally based on our
    assessment of Micron s financial results and the
    competitive environment, particularly for NAND flash memory
    products.

Note 8:
    Derivative Financial Instruments  

Our primary objective for holding
    derivative financial instruments is to manage currency exchange
    rate risk and interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, equity
    market risk and commodity price risk.

We currently do not enter into
    derivative instruments to manage credit risk; however, we manage
    our exposure to credit risk through our policies. We generally
    enter into derivative transactions with high-credit-quality
    counterparties and, by policy, limit the amount of credit
    exposure to any one counterparty based on our analysis of that
    counterparty s relative credit standing. The amounts
    subject to credit risk related to derivative instruments are
    generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which a
    counterparty s obligations exceed our obligations with that
    counterparty, because we enter into master netting arrangements
    with counterparties when possible to mitigate credit risk in
    derivative transactions subject to International Swaps and
    Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements. A master
    netting arrangement may allow counterparties to net settle
    amounts owed to each other as a result of multiple, separate
    transactions.

Currency
    Exchange Rate Risk   

A majority of our revenue,
    expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in
    U.S. dollars. However, certain operating expenditures and
    capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other
    currencies, primarily the euro, the Japanese yen, and the
    Israeli shekel. We have established balance sheet and forecasted
    transaction currency risk management programs to protect against
    fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash
    flows caused by changes in exchange rates. These programs
    reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of
    currency exchange movements.

80

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Our currency risk management
    programs include:

Currency derivatives with cash
    flow hedge accounting
    designation    that
    utilize currency forward contracts and currency options to hedge
    exposures to the variability in the
     U.S.-dollar 
    equivalent of anticipated
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    cash flows. These instruments generally mature within
    12 months. For these derivatives, we report the after-tax
    gain or loss from the effective portion of the hedge as a
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in
    stockholders  equity and reclassify it into earnings in the
    same period or periods in which the hedged transaction affects
    earnings, and within the same line item on the consolidated
    statements of income as the impact of the hedged transaction.

Currency derivatives with fair
    value hedge accounting
    designation    that
    utilize currency forward contracts and currency options to hedge
    the fair value exposure of recognized
    foreign-currency-denominated assets or liabilities, or
    previously unrecognized firm commitments. For fair value hedges,
    we recognize gains or losses in earnings to offset fair value
    changes in the hedged transaction. As of December 27, 2008
    and December 29, 2007, we did not have any derivatives
    designated as foreign currency fair value hedges.

Currency derivatives without
    hedge accounting designation
       that utilize currency
    forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps to
    economically hedge the functional currency equivalent cash flows
    of recognized monetary assets and liabilities and
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. The maturity of
    these instruments generally occurs within 12 months, except
    for derivatives associated with certain long-term equity-related
    investments that generally mature within five years. Changes in
    the
     U.S.-dollar-equivalent 
    cash flows of the underlying assets and liabilities are
    approximately offset by the changes in fair values of the
    related derivatives. We record net gains or losses in the income
    statement line item most closely associated with the economic
    underlying, primarily in interest and other, net, except for
    equity-related gains or losses, which we primarily record in
    gains (losses) on other equity investments, net.

Interest
    Rate Risk   

Our primary objective for holding
    investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while
    maximizing yields. We generally swap the returns on our
    investments in fixed-rate debt instruments with remaining
    maturities longer than six months into U.S. dollar
    three-month LIBOR-based returns unless management specifically
    approves otherwise.

Our interest rate risk management
    programs include:

Interest rate derivatives with
    cash flow hedge accounting designation
       that utilize interest
    rate swap agreements to modify the interest characteristics of
    some of our investments. For these derivatives, we report the
    after-tax gain or loss from the effective portion of the hedge
    as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods in
    which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and within the
    same income statement line item as the impact of the hedged
    transaction.

Interest rate derivatives with
    fair value hedge accounting designation
       that utilize interest
    rate swap agreements to hedge the fair values of debt
    instruments. We recognize the gains or losses from the changes
    in fair value of these instruments, as well as the offsetting
    change in the fair value of the hedged long-term debt, in
    interest expense. As of December 27, 2008 and
    December 29, 2007, we did not have any interest rate
    derivatives designated as fair value hedges.

Interest rate derivatives
    without hedge accounting designation
       that utilize interest
    rate swaps and currency interest rate swaps in economic hedging
    transactions, including hedges of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. Floating interest
    rates on the swaps are reset on a monthly, quarterly, or
    semiannual basis. Changes in fair value of the debt instruments
    classified as trading assets are generally offset by changes in
    fair value of the related derivatives, both of which are
    recorded in interest and other, net.

Equity
    Market Risk   

Our marketable investments include
    marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments
    such as warrants and options. To the extent that our marketable
    equity securities have strategic value, we typically do not
    attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure; however, for
    our investments in strategic equity derivative instruments,
    including warrants, we may enter into transactions to reduce or
    eliminate the market risks. For securities that we no longer
    consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and economic
    factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it
    is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk.

81

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Our equity market risk management
    programs include:

Equity derivatives with hedge
    accounting designation
       that utilize equity
    options, swaps, or forward contracts to hedge the equity market
    risk of marketable equity securities when these investments are
    not considered to have strategic value. These derivatives are
    generally designated as fair value hedges. We recognize the
    gains or losses from the change in fair value of these equity
    derivatives, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value
    of the underlying hedged equity securities, in gains (losses) on
    other equity investments, net. As of December 27, 2008 and
    December 29, 2007, we did not have any equity derivatives
    designated as fair value hedges.

Equity derivatives without
    hedge accounting designation
       that utilize equity
    derivatives, such as warrants, equity options, or other equity
    derivatives. We recognize changes in the fair value of such
    derivatives in gains (losses) on other equity investments, net.

Commodity
    Price Risk   

We operate facilities that consume
    commodities, and we have established forecasted transaction risk
    management programs to protect against fluctuations in fair
    value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes
    in commodity prices, such as those for natural gas. These
    programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the
    impact of commodity price movements.

Our commodity price risk
    management program includes:

Commodity derivatives with cash
    flow hedge accounting
    designation    that
    utilize commodity swap contracts to hedge future cash flow
    exposures to the variability in commodity prices. These
    instruments generally mature within 12 months. For these
    derivatives, we report the after-tax gain (loss) from the
    effective portion of the hedge as a component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity
    and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods in
    which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and within the
    same line item on the consolidated statements of income as the
    impact of the hedged transaction.

Credit
    Risk   

We typically do not hold
    derivative instruments for the purpose of managing credit risk,
    since we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one
    counterparty and generally enter into derivative transactions
    with high-credit-quality counterparties. As of December 27,
    2008 and December 29, 2007, our credit risk management
    program did not include credit derivatives.

Note 9:
    Concentrations of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that
    potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist
    principally of investments in debt instruments, derivative
    financial instruments, and trade receivables. We also enter into
    master netting arrangements with counterparties when possible to
    mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions subject to ISDA
    agreements.

We generally place investments
    with high-credit-quality counterparties and, by policy, limit
    the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty based on
    our analysis of that counterparty s relative credit
    standing. Substantially all of our investments in debt
    instruments are with A/A2 or better rated issuers, and the
    majority of the issuers are rated AA-/Aa2 or better. Our
    investment policy requires all investments with original
    maturities of up to six months to be rated at least
     A-1/P-1  by
    Standard   Poor s/Moody s, and specifies a
    higher minimum rating for investments with longer maturities.
    For instance, investments with maturities of greater than three
    years require a minimum rating of AA-/Aa3 at the time of
    investment. Government regulations imposed on investment
    alternatives of our
     non-U.S. subsidiaries, 
    or the absence of A rated counterparties in certain countries,
    result in some minor exceptions. Credit rating criteria for
    derivative instruments are similar to those for other
    investments. The amounts subject to credit risk related to
    derivative instruments are generally limited to the amounts, if
    any, by which a counterparty s obligations exceed our
    obligations with that counterparty. As of December 27,
    2008, the total credit exposure to any single counterparty did
    not exceed $500 million. We obtain and secure available
    collateral from counterparties against obligations, including
    securities lending transactions, when we deem it appropriate.

82

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

A substantial majority of our
    trade receivables are derived from sales to original equipment
    manufacturers and original design manufacturers. We also have
    accounts receivable derived from sales to industrial and retail
    distributors. Our two largest customers accounted for 38% of net
    revenue for 2008 and 35% of net revenue for 2007 and 2006.
    Additionally, these two largest customers accounted for 46% of
    our accounts receivable as of December 27, 2008 and 35% of
    our accounts receivable as of December 29, 2007. We believe
    that the receivable balances from these largest customers do not
    represent a significant credit risk based on cash flow
    forecasts, balance sheet analysis, and past collection
    experience.

We have adopted credit policies
    and standards intended to accommodate industry growth and
    inherent risk. We believe that credit risks are moderated by the
    financial stability of our major customers. We assess credit
    risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from
    this analysis, we establish credit limits and determine whether
    we will seek to use one or more credit support devices, such as
    obtaining some form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of
    credit, or obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of
    the account balance if necessary.

We continually monitor the credit
    risk in our portfolio and mitigate our credit and interest rate
    exposures in accordance with the policies approved by our Board
    of Directors. We intend to continue to closely monitor future
    developments in the credit markets and make appropriate changes
    to our investment policies as deemed necessary.

Note 10:
    Interest and Other, Net  

The components of interest and
    other, net were as follows:

During 2006, we realized gains of
    $612 million for three completed divestitures included
    within  other, net  in the table above. For further
    discussion, see  Note 12: Divestitures. 

Note 11:
    Acquisitions  

Consideration for acquisitions
    that qualify as business combinations includes the cash paid and
    the value of any options assumed, less any cash acquired, and
    excludes contingent employee compensation payable in cash and
    any debt assumed. During 2008, we completed two acquisitions
    qualifying as business combinations in exchange for aggregate
    net cash consideration of $16 million, plus certain
    liabilities. We allocated all of this consideration to goodwill.
    See  Note 13: Goodwill  for the goodwill
    allocation by reportable operating segment.

During 2007, we completed one
    acquisition qualifying as a business combination in exchange for
    net cash consideration of $76 million, plus certain
    liabilities. We allocated a substantial majority of this
    consideration to goodwill. The acquired business and related
    goodwill was recorded within the all other category for segment
    reporting purposes. During 2006, we did not complete any
    acquisitions qualifying as business combinations.

83

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 12:
    Divestitures  

During the first quarter of 2008,
    we completed the divestiture of a portion of the
    telecommunications-related assets of our optical platform
    division that were included in the Digital Enterprise Group
    operating segment. Consideration for the divestiture was
    approximately $85 million, including $75 million in
    cash and common shares of the acquiring company with an
    estimated value of $10 million at the date of purchase. We
    entered into an agreement with the acquiring company to provide
    certain manufacturing and transition services for a limited time
    that has since been completed. During the first quarter of 2008,
    as a result of this divestiture, we recorded a net gain of
    $39 million within interest and other, net. During the
    second quarter of 2008, we completed the sale of the remaining
    portion of our optical platform division for common shares of
    the acquiring company with an estimated value of
    $27 million at the date of purchase. Overall, approximately
    100 employees of our optical products business became
    employees of the acquiring company.

During the second quarter of 2008,
    we completed the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business.
    We exchanged certain NOR flash memory assets and certain assets
    associated with our phase change memory initiatives with Numonyx
    for a note receivable with a contractual amount of
    $144 million and a 45.1% ownership interest in the form of
    common stock, together valued at $821 million. We retain
    certain rights to intellectual property included within the
    divestiture. Approximately 2,500 employees of our NOR flash
    memory business became employees of Numonyx. STMicroelectronics
    contributed certain assets to Numonyx for a note receivable with
    a contractual amount of $156 million and a 48.6% ownership
    interest in the form of common stock. Francisco Partners paid
    $150 million in cash in exchange for the remaining 6.3%
    ownership interest in the form of preferred stock and a note
    receivable with a contractual amount of $20 million. In
    addition, they received a payout right that is preferential
    relative to the investments of Intel and STMicroelectronics. We
    did not incur a gain or loss upon completion of the transaction
    in the second quarter of 2008, as we had recorded asset
    impairment charges in quarters prior to deal closure. For
    further discussion, see  Note 15: Restructuring and
    Asset Impairment Charges.  Subsequent to the divestiture,
    in the third quarter of 2008 we recorded a $250 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx within gains
    (losses) on equity method investments. For further discussion on
    our investment and the terms of the divestiture, see
     Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments. 

During the third quarter of 2006,
    we completed the divestiture of our media and signaling business
    and associated assets that were included in the Digital
    Enterprise Group operating segment. We received $75 million
    in cash consideration. Approximately 375 employees of our
    media and signaling business became employees of the acquiring
    company. As a result of this divestiture, we recorded a
    reduction of goodwill of $4 million. Additionally, we
    recorded a net gain of $52 million within interest and
    other, net.

During the third quarter of 2006,
    we completed the divestiture of certain product lines and
    associated assets of our optical networking components business
    that were included in the Digital Enterprise Group operating
    segment. Consideration for the divestiture was
    $115 million, including $86 million in cash, and
    shares of the acquiring company with an estimated value of
    $29 million. Approximately 55 employees of our optical
    networking components business became employees of the acquiring
    company. As a result of this divestiture, we recorded a
    reduction of goodwill of $6 million. Additionally, we
    recorded a net gain of $77 million within interest and
    other, net.

During the fourth quarter of 2006,
    we completed the divestiture of certain assets of our
    communications and application processor business to Marvell
    Technology Group, Ltd. for a cash purchase price of
    $600 million plus the assumption of certain liabilities. We
    included the operating results associated with the divested
    assets of our communications and application processor business
    in the Mobility Group operating segment. Intel and Marvell also
    entered into an agreement whereby we provided certain
    manufacturing and transition services to Marvell. Approximately
    1,300 employees of our communications and application
    processor business who were involved in a variety of functions,
    including engineering, product testing and validation,
    operations, and marketing, became employees of Marvell. As a
    result of this divestiture, we recorded a reduction of goodwill
    of $2 million. Additionally, we recorded a net gain of
    $483 million within interest and other, net.

84

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 13:
    Goodwill  

Goodwill activity attributed to
    reportable operating segments for the years ended
    December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007 was as follows:

During 2008, we completed a
    reorganization that transferred the revenue and costs associated
    with a portion of the Digital Home Group s consumer PC
    components business to the Digital Enterprise Group. We
    reassigned $123 million of goodwill from the Digital Home
    Group to the Digital Enterprise Group as a result of the
    reorganization. We reassigned goodwill to the Digital Enterprise
    Group based on the relative fair value of the business
    transferred to the estimated fair value of the Digital Home
    Group reporting unit before the reorganization. The remaining
    goodwill associated with the Digital Home Group reporting unit
    is included in the all other category. During 2008, we completed
    two acquisitions that resulted in goodwill of $18 million.
    During 2007, we completed one acquisition that resulted in
    goodwill of $60 million. For further discussion, see
     Note 11: Acquisitions. 

After completing our annual
    impairment reviews during the fourth quarter of 2008, 2007, and
    2006, we concluded that goodwill was not impaired in any year.

Note 14:
    Identified Intangible Assets  

We classify identified intangible
    assets within other long-term assets. Identified intangible
    assets consisted of the following as of December 27, 2008:

During 2008, we acquired
    intellectual property assets for $68 million with a
    weighted average life of 10 years.

85

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Identified intangible assets
    consisted of the following as of December 29, 2007:

During 2007, we acquired
    intellectual property assets for $170 million with a
    weighted average life of 11 years. The majority of the
    intellectual property assets acquired represented the fair value
    of assets capitalized as a result of a settlement agreement with
    Transmeta Corporation. Pursuant to the agreement, we agreed to
    pay Transmeta a total of $250 million in exchange for a
    technology license and other consideration. The present value of
    the settlement was $236 million of which $113 million
    was charged to cost of sales. The charge to cost of sales
    related to the portion of the license attributable to certain
    product sales through the third quarter of 2007. The remaining
    $123 million represented the value of the intellectual
    property assets capitalized and is being amortized to cost of
    sales over the assets  remaining useful lives.

During 2007, we acquired
    acquisition-related developed technology for $15 million
    with a weighted average life of four years, and recorded other
    intangible assets of $40 million with a weighted average
    life of four years.

All of our identified intangible
    assets are subject to amortization. We recorded the amortization
    of identified intangible assets on the consolidated statements
    of income as follows: intellectual property assets generally in
    cost of sales; acquisition-related developed technology in
    marketing, general and administrative; and other intangible
    assets as either a reduction of revenue or marketing, general
    and administrative.

Amortization expenses for the
    three years ended December 27, 2008 were as follows:

Based on identified intangible
    assets recorded as of December 27, 2008, and assuming that
    the underlying assets will not be impaired in the future, we
    expect amortization expenses for each period to be as follows:

Note 15:
    Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges  

The following table summarizes
    restructuring and asset impairment charges by plan for the three
    years ended December 27, 2008:

86

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

We may incur additional
    restructuring charges in the future for employee severance and
    benefit arrangements, and facility-related or other exit
    activities. Subsequent to the end of 2008, management approved
    plans to restructure some of our manufacturing and assembly and
    test operations, and align our manufacturing and assembly and
    test capacity to current market conditions. These actions, which
    are expected to take place beginning in 2009, include closing
    two assembly and test facilities in Malaysia, one facility in
    the Philippines, and one facility in China; stopping production
    at a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Oregon; and ending
    production at our 200mm wafer fabrication facility in California.

2008
    NAND Plan   

In the fourth quarter of 2008,
    management approved a plan with Micron to discontinue the supply
    of NAND flash memory from the 200mm facility within the IMFT
    manufacturing network. The agreement resulted in a
    $215 million restructuring charge, primarily related to the
    IMFT 200mm supply agreement. The restructuring charge resulted
    in a reduction of our investment in IMFT of $184 million, a
    cash payment to Micron of $24 million, and other cash
    payments of $7 million.

2006
    Efficiency Program   

The following table summarizes
    charges for the 2006 efficiency program for the three years
    ended December 27, 2008:

In the third quarter of 2006,
    management approved several actions recommended by our structure
    and efficiency task force as part of a restructuring plan
    designed to improve operational efficiency and financial
    results. Some of these activities have involved cost savings or
    other actions that did not result in restructuring charges, such
    as better utilization of assets, reduced spending, and
    organizational efficiencies. The efficiency program has included
    targeted headcount reductions for various groups within the
    company, which we have met through employee attrition and
    terminations. Business divestures have further reduced our
    headcount.

During 2006, we completed the
    divestiture of three businesses. For further discussion, see
     Note 12: Divestitures.  In connection with the
    divestiture of certain assets of our communications and
    application processor business, we recorded impairment charges
    of $103 million related to the write-down of manufacturing
    tools to their fair value, less the cost to dispose of the
    assets. We determined the fair value using a market-based
    valuation technique. In addition, as a result of both this
    divestiture and a subsequent assessment of our worldwide
    manufacturing capacity operations, we placed for sale our
    fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado. This plan
    resulted in an impairment charge of $214 million to write
    down to fair value the land, building, and equipment asset
    grouping that has been principally used to support our
    communications and application processor business. We determined
    the fair market value of the asset grouping using an average of
    the results from using the cost approach and market approach
    valuation techniques.

During 2007, we incurred an
    additional $54 million in asset impairment charges as a
    result of market conditions related to the Colorado Springs
    facility. Also, we recorded land and building write-downs
    related to certain facilities in Santa Clara, California.
    In addition, we incurred $85 million in asset impairment
    charges related to assets that we sold in conjunction with the
    divestiture of our NOR flash memory business. We determined the
    impairment charges based on the fair value, less selling costs,
    that we expected to receive upon completion of the divestiture.

During 2008, we incurred
    additional asset impairment charges related to the Colorado
    Springs facility, based on market conditions. Also, we incurred
    $275 million in additional asset impairment charges related
    to assets that we sold in conjunction with the divestiture of
    our NOR flash memory business. We determined the impairment
    charges using the revised fair value of the equity and note
    receivable that we received upon completion of the divestiture,
    less selling costs. The lower fair value was primarily a result
    of a decline in the outlook for the flash memory market segment.
    For further information on this divestiture, see
     Note 12: Divestitures. 

87

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the
    restructuring and asset impairment activity for the 2006
    efficiency program during 2007 and 2008:

We recorded the additional
    accruals, net of adjustments, as restructuring and asset
    impairment charges. The remaining accrual as of
    December 27, 2008 was related to severance benefits that we
    recorded within accrued compensation and benefits.

From the third quarter of 2006
    through the fourth quarter of 2008, we incurred a total of
    $1.6 billion in restructuring and asset impairment charges
    related to this program. These charges included a total of
    $678 million related to employee severance and benefit
    arrangements for approximately 11,900 employees, and
    $888 million in asset impairment charges.

Note 16:
    Borrowings  

Short-Term
    Debt   

Short-term debt included
    non-interest-bearing drafts payable of $100 million and the
    current portion of long-term debt of $2 million as of
    December 27, 2008 (drafts payable of $140 million and
    the current portion of long-term debt of $2 million as of
    December 29, 2007). We have an ongoing authorization from
    our Board of Directors to borrow up to $3.0 billion,
    including through the issuance of commercial paper. Maximum
    borrowings under our commercial paper program during 2008 were
    approximately $1.3 billion. We did not have outstanding
    commercial paper as of December 27, 2008. There were no
    borrowings under our commercial paper program during 2007. Our
    commercial paper was rated
     A-1+  by
    Standard   Poor s and
     P-1  by
    Moody s as of December 27, 2008.

Long-Term
    Debt   

Our long-term debt at fiscal
    year-ends was as follows:

88

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In 2005, we issued
    $1.6 billion of 2.95% junior subordinated convertible
    debentures (the debentures) due 2035. The debentures are
    convertible, subject to certain conditions, into shares of our
    common stock at an initial conversion rate of
    31.7162 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount
    of debentures, representing an initial effective conversion
    price of approximately $31.53 per share of common stock. Holders
    can surrender the debentures for conversion at any time. The
    conversion rate will be subject to adjustment for certain events
    outlined in the indenture governing the debentures (the
    indenture), but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. In
    addition, the conversion rate will increase for a holder who
    elects to convert the debentures in connection with certain
    share exchanges, mergers, or consolidations involving Intel, as
    described in the indenture. The debentures, which pay a fixed
    rate of interest semiannually, have a contingent interest
    component that will require us to pay interest based on certain
    thresholds and for certain events commencing on
    December 15, 2010, as outlined in the indenture. The
    maximum amount of contingent interest that will accrue is 0.40%
    per year. The fair value of the related embedded derivative was
    not significant as of December 27, 2008 or
    December 29, 2007.

We can settle any conversion or
    repurchase of the debentures in cash or stock at our option. On
    or after December 15, 2012, we can redeem, for cash, all or
    part of the debentures for the principal amount, plus any
    accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of Intel
    common stock has been at least 130% of the conversion price then
    in effect for at least 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive
     trading-day 
    period prior to the date on which we provide notice of
    redemption. If certain events occur in the future, the indenture
    provides that each holder of the debentures can, for a
    pre-defined period of time, require us to repurchase the
    holder s debentures for the principal amount plus any
    accrued and unpaid interest. The debentures are subordinated in
    right of payment to our existing and future senior debt and to
    the other liabilities of our subsidiaries. We concluded that the
    debentures are not conventional convertible debt instruments and
    that the embedded stock conversion option qualifies as a
    derivative under SFAS No. 133. In addition, in
    accordance with
     EITF 00-19, 
     Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed
    to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own
    Stock,  we have concluded that the embedded conversion
    option would be classified in stockholders  equity if it
    were a freestanding instrument. As such, the embedded conversion
    option is not accounted for separately as a derivative.

In 2005, we guaranteed repayment
    of principal and interest on bonds issued by the Industrial
    Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona, which
    constitutes an unsecured general obligation for Intel. The
    aggregate principal amount, including the premium, of the bonds
    issued in 2005 (2005 Arizona bonds) was $160 million. The
    bonds are due in 2035 and bear interest at a fixed rate of
    4.375% until 2010. The 2005 Arizona bonds are subject to
    mandatory tender on November 30, 2010, at which time we can
    re-market the bonds as either fixed-rate bonds for a specified
    period or as variable-rate bonds until their final maturity on
    December 1, 2035.

In 2007, we guaranteed repayment
    of principal and interest on bonds issued by the Industrial
    Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona, which
    constitute an unsecured general obligation for Intel. The
    aggregate principal amount of the bonds issued in December 2007
    (2007 Arizona bonds) is $125 million due in 2037, and the
    bonds bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.3%. The 2007 Arizona
    bonds are subject to mandatory tender, at our option, on any
    interest payment date beginning on or after December 1,
    2012 until their final maturity on December 1, 2037. Upon
    such tender, we can re-market the bonds as either fixed-rate
    bonds for a specified period or as variable-rate bonds until
    their final maturity. We also entered into an interest rate swap
    agreement, from a fixed rate to a floating LIBOR-based return.
    At the beginning of the first quarter of 2008, we elected the
    provisions of SFAS No. 159 for the 2007 Arizona bonds,
    and we record these bonds at fair value. For further discussion,
    see  Note 3: Fair Value. 

We have euro borrowings that we
    made in connection with financing manufacturing facilities and
    equipment in Ireland. We invested the proceeds in
    euro-denominated loan participation notes of similar maturity to
    reduce currency and interest rate exposures. During 2008, we
    retired $96 million in euro borrowings prior to their
    maturity dates through the simultaneous settlement of an
    equivalent amount of investments in loan participation notes.

89

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

As of December 27, 2008, our
    aggregate debt maturities were as follows (in millions):

Note 17:
    Retirement Benefit Plans  

Profit
    Sharing Plans   

We provide tax-qualified profit
    sharing retirement plans for the benefit of eligible employees,
    former employees, and retirees in the U.S. and certain
    other countries. The plans are designed to provide employees
    with an accumulation of funds for retirement on a tax-deferred
    basis and provide for annual discretionary employer
    contributions. Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) determines the
    amounts to be contributed to the U.S. Profit Sharing Plan
    under delegation of authority from our Board of Directors,
    pursuant to the terms of the Profit Sharing Plan. As of
    December 27, 2008, approximately 75% of our
    U.S. Profit Sharing Fund was invested in equities, and
    approximately 25% was invested in fixed-income instruments. Most
    assets are managed by external investment managers.

For the benefit of eligible
    U.S. employees, we also provide a non-tax-qualified
    supplemental deferred compensation plan for certain highly
    compensated employees. This plan is designed to permit certain
    discretionary employer contributions and to permit employee
    deferral of a portion of salaries in excess of certain tax
    limits and deferral of bonuses. This plan is unfunded.

We expensed $289 million for
    the qualified and non-qualified U.S. profit sharing
    retirement plans in 2008 ($302 million in 2007 and
    $313 million in 2006). In the first quarter of 2009, we
    funded $276 million for the 2008 contribution to the
    qualified U.S. Profit Sharing Plan.

Contributions that we make to the
    U.S. Profit Sharing Plan on behalf of our employees vest
    based on the employee s years of service. Vesting occurs
    after two years of service in 20% annual increments until the
    employee is 100% vested after six years, or earlier if the
    employee reaches age 60.

Pension
    and Postretirement Benefit Plans   

U.S. Pension
    Benefits.    We
    provide a tax-qualified defined-benefit pension plan for the
    benefit of eligible employees and retirees in the U.S. The
    plan provides for a minimum pension benefit that is determined
    by a participant s years of service and final average
    compensation (taking into account the participant s social
    security wage base), reduced by the participant s balance
    in the U.S. Profit Sharing Plan. If the pension benefit
    exceeds the participant s balance in the U.S. Profit
    Sharing Plan, the participant will receive a combination of
    pension and profit sharing amounts equal to the pension benefit.
    However, the participant will receive only the benefit from the
    Profit Sharing Plan if that benefit is greater than the value of
    the pension benefit. If we do not continue to contribute to, or
    significantly reduce contributions to, the U.S. Profit
    Sharing Plan, the projected benefit obligation of the
    U.S. defined-benefit plan could increase significantly. The
    significant decrease in the fair value of the U.S. Profit
    Sharing Plan assets during 2008 contributed to an increase in
    the projected benefit obligation of the
    U.S. defined-benefit plan.

Non-U.S. Pension 
    Benefits.    We also
    provide defined-benefit pension plans in certain other
    countries. Consistent with the requirements of local law, we
    deposit funds for certain plans with insurance companies, with
    third-party trustees, or into government-managed accounts,
     and/or 
    accrue for the unfunded portion of the obligation. The
    assumptions used in calculating the obligation for the
     non-U.S. plans 
    depend on the local economic environment.

90

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Postretirement Medical
    Benefits.    Upon
    retirement, eligible U.S. employees are credited with a
    defined dollar amount based on years of service. These credits
    can be used to pay all or a portion of the cost to purchase
    coverage in an Intel-sponsored medical plan. If the available
    credits are not sufficient to pay the entire cost of the
    coverage, the remaining cost is the responsibility of the
    retiree.

Funding
    Policy.    Our
    practice is to fund the various pension plans in amounts
    sufficient to meet the minimum requirements of U.S. federal
    laws and regulations or applicable local laws and regulations.
    Additional funding may be provided as deemed appropriate. The
    assets of the various plans are invested in corporate equities,
    corporate debt instruments, government securities, and other
    institutional arrangements. The portfolio of each plan depends
    on plan design and applicable local laws. Depending on the
    design of the plan, local customs, and market circumstances, the
    liabilities of a plan may exceed qualified plan assets. We
    accrue for all such liabilities.

Benefit
    Obligation and Plan Assets   

The changes in the benefit
    obligations and plan assets for the plans described above were
    as follows:

1   

2008 curtailments and settlements were primarily related to
    the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business for employees
    at our Israel and Philippines facilities.  

2   

As of December 27, 2008, our plan financial assets and
    liabilities were valued using the provisions of
    SFAS No. 157.  

91

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the
    amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as of
    December 27, 2008:

The following table summarizes the
    amounts recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) before taxes, as of December 27, 2008:

U.S. Pension 

Non-U.S. Pension 

Postretirement 

(In Millions) 

Benefits 

Benefits 

Medical Benefits 

Net prior service cost

$

$

$

(16

)

Net actuarial gain (loss)

(307

)

(165

)

65

Reclassification adjustment of transition obligation

(2

)

Defined benefit plans, net 

$ 

(307 

) 

$ 

(167 

) 

$ 

49 

The following table summarizes the
    amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheet as of
    December 29, 2007:

Included in the aggregate data in
    the following tables are the amounts applicable to our pension
    plans, with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
    assets, as well as plans with projected benefit obligations in
    excess of plan assets. Amounts related to such plans were as
    follows:

92

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Assumptions   

Weighted-average actuarial
    assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the plans
    were as follows:

Weighted-average actuarial
    assumptions used to determine costs for the plans were as
    follows:

For the U.S. plans, we
    developed the discount rate by calculating the benefit payment
    streams by year to determine when benefit payments will be due.
    We then matched the benefit payment streams by year to the AA
    corporate bond rates to match the timing and amount of the
    expected benefit payments and discounted back to the measurement
    date to determine the appropriate discount rate. For the
     non-U.S. plans, 
    we used two approaches to develop the discount rate. In certain
    countries, we used a model consisting of a theoretical bond
    portfolio for which the timing and amount of cash flows
    approximates the estimated benefit payments of our pension
    plans. In other countries, we analyzed current market long-term
    bond rates and matched the bond maturity with the average
    duration of the pension liabilities. We consider several factors
    in developing the asset return assumptions for the U.S. and
     non-U.S. plans. 
    We analyzed rates of return relevant to the country where each
    plan is in effect and the investments applicable to the plan,
    expectations of future returns, local actuarial projections, and
    the projected long-term rates of return from investment
    managers. The expected long-term rate of return shown for the
     non-U.S. plan 
    assets is weighted to reflect each country s relative
    portion of the
     non-U.S. plan 
    assets.

Net
    Periodic Benefit Cost   

The net periodic benefit cost for
    the plans included the following components:

1   

2008 curtailments and settlements were primarily related to
    the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business for employees
    at our Israel and Philippines facilities.  

93

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

U.S.
    Plan Assets   

In general, the investment
    strategy for U.S. plan assets is to assure that the pension
    assets are available to pay benefits as they come due and to
    minimize market risk. When deemed appropriate, we may invest a
    portion of the fund in futures contracts for the purpose of
    acting as a temporary substitute for an investment in a
    particular equity security. The fund does not engage in
    speculative futures transactions. The U.S. plan assets are
    managed to remain within the target allocation ranges listed
    below. As of December 27, 2008, our plan assets were not
    within our target allocation due to market volatility. At times
    our allocation will temporarily fall outside the target
    allocation range, as we re-allocate plan assets due to market
    conditions, such as volatility and liquidity concerns, to
    minimize market risk. The expected long-term rate of return for
    the U.S. plan assets is 4.5%.

The asset allocation for our
    U.S. Pension Plan at the end of fiscal years 2008 and 2007,
    and the target allocation rate for 2009, by asset category, are
    as follows:

Non-U.S. 
    Plan Assets   

The investments of the
     non-U.S. plans 
    are managed by insurance companies, third-party trustees, or
    pension funds, consistent with regulations or market practice of
    the country where the assets are invested. The investment
    manager makes investment decisions within the guidelines set by
    us or local regulations. The investment manager evaluates
    performance by comparing the actual rate of return to the return
    on other similar assets. Investments managed by qualified
    insurance companies or pension funds under standard contracts
    follow local regulations, and we are not actively involved in
    their investment strategies. In general, the investment strategy
    is designed to accumulate a diversified portfolio among markets,
    asset classes, or individual securities in order to reduce
    market risk and assure that the pension assets are available to
    pay benefits as they come due. The average expected long-term
    rate of return for the
     non-U.S. plan 
    assets is 6.6%.

The asset allocation for our
     non-U.S. plans, 
    excluding assets managed by qualified insurance companies, at
    the end of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, and the target allocation
    rate for 2009, by asset category, are as follows:

Investment assets managed by
    qualified insurance companies are invested as part of the
    insurance companies  general fund. We do not have control
    over the target allocation of those investments. Those
    investments made up 36% of total
     non-U.S. plan 
    assets in 2008 (31% in 2007).

Funding
    Expectations   

Under applicable law for the
    U.S. Pension Plan, we are not required to make any
    contributions during 2009. Our expected funding for the
     non-U.S. plans 
    during 2009 is approximately $62 million. We expect
    employer contributions to the postretirement medical benefits
    plan to be approximately $5 million during 2009.

94

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments   

We expect the benefits to be paid
    through 2018 from the U.S. and
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans and other postretirement benefit plans to be approximately
    $75 million annually.

Note 18:
    Commitments  

A portion of our capital equipment
    and certain facilities is under operating leases that expire at
    various dates through 2028. Additionally, portions of our land
    are under leases that expire at various dates through 2062.
    Rental expense was $141 million in 2008 ($154 million
    in 2007 and $160 million in 2006).

Minimum rental commitments under
    all non-cancelable leases with an initial term in excess of one
    year were as follows as of December 27, 2008 (in millions):

Commitments for construction or
    purchase of property, plant and equipment totaled
    $2.9 billion as of December 27, 2008
    ($2.3 billion as of December 29, 2007). Other purchase
    obligations and commitments totaled $1.2 billion as of
    December 27, 2008 ($1.7 billion as of
    December 29, 2007). Other purchase obligations and
    commitments include payments due under various types of
    licenses, agreements to purchase raw material or other goods, as
    well as payments due under non-contingent funding obligations.
    Funding obligations include, for example, agreements to fund
    various projects with other companies. In addition, we have
    various contractual commitments with Micron, IMFT, and IMFS (see
     Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments ).

Note 19:
    Employee Equity Incentive Plans  

Our equity incentive plans are
    broad-based, long-term retention programs intended to attract
    and retain talented employees and align stockholder and employee
    interests.

In May 2007, stockholders approved
    an extension of the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan).
    Stockholders approved 119 million additional shares for
    issuance, increasing the total shares of common stock available
    for issuance as equity awards to employees and non-employee
    directors to 294 million shares. Of this amount, we
    increased the maximum number of shares to be awarded as
    non-vested shares (restricted stock) or non-vested share units
    (restricted stock units) to 168 million shares. The
    approval also extended the expiration date of the 2006 Plan to
    June 2010. The 2006 Plan allows for time-based,
    performance-based, and market-based vesting for equity incentive
    awards. As of December 27, 2008, we had not issued any
    performance-based or market-based equity incentive awards. As of
    December 27, 2008, 174 million shares remained
    available for future grant under the 2006 Plan. We may assume
    the equity incentive plans and the outstanding equity awards of
    certain acquired companies. Once they are assumed, we do not
    grant additional shares under these plans.

We began issuing restricted stock
    units in 2006. We issue shares on the date that the restricted
    stock units vest. The majority of shares issued are net of the
    statutory withholding requirements that we pay on behalf of our
    employees. As a result, the actual number of shares issued will
    be less than the number of restricted stock units granted. Prior
    to vesting, restricted stock units do not have dividend
    equivalent rights, do not have voting rights, and the shares
    underlying the restricted stock units are not considered issued
    and outstanding.

95

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Equity awards granted to employees
    in 2008 under our equity incentive plans generally vest over
    4 years from the date of grant, and options expire
    7 years from the date of grant. Equity awards granted to
    key officers, senior-level employees, and key employees in
    2008 may have delayed vesting beginning 2 to 5 years
    from the date of grant, and options expire 7 to 10 years
    from the date of grant.

The 2006 Stock Purchase Plan
    allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock
    at 85% of the value of our common stock on specific dates. Under
    the 2006 Stock Purchase Plan, we made 240 million shares of
    common stock available for issuance through August 2011. As of
    December 27, 2008, 188 million shares were available
    for issuance under the 2006 Stock Purchase Plan.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Effective January 1, 2006, we
    adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), as
    discussed in  Note 2: Accounting Policies. 
    Share-based compensation recognized in 2008 was
    $851 million ($952 million in 2007 and
    $1,375 million in 2006).

In accordance with
    SFAS No. 123(R), we adjust share-based compensation on
    a quarterly basis for changes to our estimate of expected equity
    award forfeitures based on our review of recent forfeiture
    activity and expected future employee turnover. We recognize the
    effect of adjusting the forfeiture rate for all expense
    amortization after January 1, 2006 in the period that we
    change the forfeiture estimate. The effect of forfeiture
    adjustments in 2006, 2007, and 2008 was not significant.

The total share-based compensation
    cost capitalized as part of inventory as of December 27,
    2008 was $46 million ($41 million as of
    December 29, 2007 and $72 million as of
    December 30, 2006). During 2008, the tax benefit that we
    realized for the tax deduction from option exercises and other
    awards totaled $147 million ($265 million in 2007 and
    $139 million in 2006).

We estimate the fair value of
    restricted stock unit awards using the value of our common stock
    on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of dividends
    expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting. We
    based the weighted average estimated values of restricted stock
    unit grants, as well as the weighted average assumptions that we
    used in calculating the fair value, on estimates at the date of
    grant, as follows:

We use the Black-Scholes option
    pricing model to estimate the fair value of options granted
    under our equity incentive plans and rights to acquire common
    stock granted under our stock purchase plan. We based the
    weighted average estimated values of employee stock option
    grants and rights granted under the stock purchase plan, as well
    as the weighted average assumptions used in calculating these
    values, on estimates at the date of grant, as follows:

96

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

We base the expected volatility on
    implied volatility, because we have determined that implied
    volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better
    indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. We
    use the simplified method of calculating expected life described
    in SAB 107, as amended by SAB 110, due to significant
    differences in the vesting terms and contractual life of current
    option grants compared to our historical grants.

Restricted
    Stock Unit Awards   

Information with respect to
    outstanding restricted stock unit activity is as follows:

1   

Represents the value of Intel common stock on the date that
    the restricted stock units vest. On the grant date, the fair
    value for these vested awards was $239 million in 2008 and
    $111 million in 2007.  

2   

The number of restricted stock units vested includes shares
    that we withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy the statutory
    tax withholding requirements.  

3   

Restricted stock units that are expected to vest are net of
    estimated future forfeitures.  

As of December 27, 2008,
    there was $937 million in unrecognized compensation costs
    related to restricted stock units granted under our equity
    incentive plans. We expect to recognize those costs over a
    weighted average period of 1.4 years.

97

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Stock
    Option Awards   

Options outstanding that have
    vested and are expected to vest as of December 27, 2008 are
    as follows:

1   

Amounts represent the difference between the exercise price
    and $14.18, the closing price of Intel common stock on
    December 27, 2008, as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select
    Market*, for all in-the-money options outstanding.  

2   

Options outstanding that are expected to vest are net of
    estimated future option forfeitures.  

Options with a fair value of
    $459 million completed vesting during 2008. As of
    December 27, 2008, there was $335 million in
    unrecognized compensation costs related to stock options granted
    under our equity incentive plans. We expect to recognize those
    costs over a weighted average period of 1.2 years.

Additional information with
    respect to stock option activity is as follows:

1   

Amounts represent the difference between the exercise price
    and the value of Intel common stock at the time of exercise.  

98

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The following table summarizes
    information about options outstanding as of December 27,
    2008:

These options will expire if they
    are not exercised by specific dates through January 2018. Option
    exercise prices for options exercised during the three-year
    period ended December 27, 2008 ranged from $0.05 to $27.27.

Stock
    Purchase Plan   

Approximately 72% of our employees
    were participating in our stock purchase plan as of
    December 27, 2008. Employees purchased 25.9 million
    shares in 2008 for $453 million under the 2006 Stock
    Purchase Plan (26.1 million shares for $428 million in
    2007). Employees purchased 26.0 million shares in 2006 for
    $436 million under the now expired 1976 Stock Participation
    Plan. As of December 27, 2008, there was $18 million
    in unrecognized compensation costs related to rights to acquire
    common stock under our stock purchase plan. We expect to
    recognize those costs over a weighted average period of one
    month.

Note 20:
    Common Stock Repurchases  

Common
    Stock Repurchase Program   

We have an ongoing authorization,
    amended in November 2005, from our Board of Directors to
    repurchase up to $25 billion in shares of our common stock
    in open market or negotiated transactions. During 2008, we
    repurchased 324 million shares of common stock at a cost of
    $7.1 billion (111 million shares at a cost of
    $2.75 billion during 2007 and 226 million shares at a
    cost of $4.6 billion during 2006). We have repurchased and
    retired 3.3 billion shares at a cost of approximately
    $67 billion since the program began in 1990. As of
    December 27, 2008, $7.4 billion remained available for
    repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization. A
    portion of our purchases in 2008 and 2007 was executed under
    privately negotiated forward purchase agreements.

Restricted
    Stock Unit Withholdings   

We issue restricted stock units as
    part of our equity incentive plans. For the majority of
    restricted stock units granted, the number of shares issued on
    the date the restricted stock units vest is net of the statutory
    withholding requirements that we pay on behalf of our employees.
    During 2008, we withheld 3.5 million shares
    (1.7 million shares during 2007) to satisfy
    $78 million ($38 million during 2007) of
    employees  tax obligations. Although shares withheld are
    not issued, they are treated as common stock repurchases for
    accounting and disclosure purposes, as they reduce the number of
    shares that would have been issued upon vesting.

99

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 21:
    Earnings Per Share  

We computed our basic and diluted
    earnings per common share as follows:

We computed our basic earnings per
    common share using net income and the weighted average number of
    common shares outstanding during the period. We computed diluted
    earnings per common share using net income and the weighted
    average number of common shares outstanding plus potentially
    dilutive common shares outstanding during the period.
    Potentially dilutive common shares are determined by applying
    the treasury stock method to the assumed exercise of outstanding
    stock options, the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted
    stock units, and the assumed issuance of common stock under the
    stock purchase plan, and applying the if-converted method for
    the assumed conversion of debt.

For 2008, we excluded
    484 million outstanding weighted average stock options
    (417 million in 2007 and 693 million in
    2006) from the calculation of diluted earnings per common
    share because the exercise prices of these stock options were
    greater than or equal to the average market value of the common
    shares. These options could be included in the calculation in
    the future if the average market value of the common shares
    increases and is greater than the exercise price of these
    options.

Note 22:
    Comprehensive Income  

The components of total
    comprehensive income were as follows:

100

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The components of other
    comprehensive income (loss) and related tax effects were as
    follows:

The components of accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, were as follows:

For 2008, we reclassified
    $37 million of net deferred holding gains on derivatives
    from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to cost of
    sales and operating expenses related to our
     non-U.S.-currency 
    capital purchase and operating cost hedging programs (gains of
    $39 million in 2007 and losses of $6 million in 2006).
    We estimate that we will reclassify less than $15 million
    of net derivative losses included in other accumulated
    comprehensive income (loss) into earnings within the next
    12 months. For all periods presented, the portion of
    hedging instruments  gains or losses excluded from the
    assessment of effectiveness and the ineffective portions of
    hedges had an insignificant impact on earnings for cash flow
    hedges. Additionally, for all periods presented, there was not a
    significant impact on results of operations from discontinued
    cash flow hedges as a result of forecasted transactions that did
    not occur.

The estimated net prior service
    cost, actuarial loss, and transition obligation for the defined
    benefit plan that will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost
    during fiscal year 2009 are $4 million, $28 million,
    and zero, respectively.

101

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 23:
    Taxes  

Income before taxes and the
    provision for taxes consisted of the following:

The difference between the tax
    provision at the statutory federal income tax rate and the tax
    provision as a percentage of income before income taxes was as
    follows:

During 2008, income tax benefits
    attributable to equity-based compensation transactions that were
    allocated to stockholders  equity totaled $8 million
    ($123 million in 2007 and $126 million in 2006).

102

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Deferred income taxes reflect the
    net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying
    amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
    purposes and the amounts for income tax purposes. Significant
    components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities at fiscal
    year-ends were as follows:

1   

Included within other long-term assets on the consolidated
    balance sheets.  

We had state tax credits of
    $158 million as of December 27, 2008 that will expire
    between 2009 and 2019. The net deferred tax asset valuation
    allowance was $358 million as of December 27, 2008
    compared to $133 million as of December 29, 2007. The
    valuation allowance is based on our assessment that it is more
    likely than not that certain deferred tax assets will not be
    realized in the foreseeable future. $258 million of the
    valuation allowance as of December 27, 2008 was related to
    investment asset impairments, and the remaining
    $100 million of the valuation allowance was related to
    unrealized state credit carry forwards.

As of December 27, 2008,
    U.S. deferred income taxes have not been provided for on a
    cumulative total of approximately $7.5 billion of
    undistributed earnings for certain
     non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
    Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax
    liability for temporary differences related to investments in
    these
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    that are essentially permanent in duration is not practicable.
    We currently intend to reinvest those earnings in operations
    outside the U.S.

Effective at the beginning of the
    first quarter of 2007, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48.
    As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we reduced the
    liability for net unrecognized tax benefits by
    $181 million, and accounted for the reduction as a
    cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle that
    resulted in an increase to retained earnings of
    $181 million.

103

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Long-term income taxes payable
    include uncertain tax positions, reduced by the associated
    federal deduction for state taxes and
     non-U.S.  tax
    credits, and may also include other long-term tax liabilities
    that are not uncertain but have not yet been paid.

The aggregate changes in the
    balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

(In Millions) 

Beginning balance as of December 31, 2006 (date of
    adoption) 

$ 

1,896 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(1,243

)

Lapse of statute of limitations

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

106

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(26

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

61

December 29, 2007 

$ 

794 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(51

)

Lapse of statute of limitations

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

72

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(187

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

116

December 27, 2008 

$ 

744 

During 2007, the
    U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) closed its examination
    of our tax returns for the years 1999 through 2002, resolving
    issues related to the tax benefits for export sales as well as a
    number of other issues. Additionally, we reached a settlement
    with the IRS for years 2003 through 2005 with respect to the tax
    benefits for export sales. In connection with the
    $739 million settlement with the IRS, we reversed long-term
    income taxes payable, which resulted in a $276 million tax
    benefit in 2007.

Also during 2007, we effectively
    settled with the IRS on several other matters related to the
    audit for the 2003 and 2004 tax years, despite the fact that the
    IRS audit for those years remains open. The result of
    effectively settling those positions and the process of
    re-evaluating, based on all available information and certain
    required remeasurements, was a reduction of $389 million in
    the balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits,
    $155 million of which resulted in a tax benefit in 2007.

If the remaining balance of
    $744 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of
    December 27, 2008 ($794 million as of
    December 29, 2007) were realized in a future period,
    it would result in a tax benefit of $590 million and a
    reduction of the effective tax rate ($661 million as of
    December 29, 2007).

During all years presented, we
    recognized interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
    benefits within the provision for taxes on the consolidated
    statements of income. Therefore, no change was necessary upon
    adoption of FIN 48. In 2008, we recognized $6 million
    in interest and penalties. In 2007, we recognized a net benefit
    of $142 million, primarily due to the reversal of accrued
    interest and penalties related to the settlement activity
    described above. As of December 27, 2008, we had
    $153 million of accrued interest and penalties related to
    unrecognized tax benefits ($115 million as of
    December 29, 2007).

During 2008, we reached a
    settlement with the IRS and several state tax authorities
    related to prior years resulting in payments of $51 million and
    a decrease in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods of $103 million.

Although the timing of the
    resolution
     and/or 
    closure on audits is highly uncertain, it is reasonably possible
    that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could
    significantly change in the next 12 months. Given the
    number of years remaining subject to examination and the number
    of matters being examined, we are unable to estimate the full
    range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross
    unrecognized tax benefits. However, we can reasonably expect a
    minimum reduction of $80 million of our existing gross
    unrealized tax benefits upon settlement or effective settlement
    with the various tax authorities, the closure of certain audits,
    and the lapse of statute of limitations.

104

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

We file U.S. federal,
    U.S. state, and
     non-U.S. tax 
    returns. For U.S. state and
     non-U.S. tax 
    returns, we are generally no longer subject to tax examinations
    for years prior to 1996. For U.S. federal tax returns, we
    are no longer subject to tax examination for years prior to 2003.

Note 24:
    Contingencies  

Legal
    Proceedings   

We are currently a party to
    various legal proceedings, including those noted in this
    section. While management presently believes that the ultimate
    outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate,
    will not materially harm the company s financial position,
    cash flows, or overall trends in results of operations, legal
    proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and
    unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could
    include money damages or, in matters for which injunctive relief
    or other conduct remedies are sought, an injunction prohibiting
    us from selling one or more products at all or in particular
    ways. Were unfavorable final outcomes to occur, there exists the
    possibility of a material adverse impact on our business,
    results of operation, financial position, and overall trends.
    Except as may be otherwise indicated, the outcomes in these
    matters are not reasonably estimable.

Advanced
    Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) and AMD International
    Sales   Service, Ltd. v. Intel Corporation and
    Intel Kabushiki Kaisha, and Related Consumer Class Actions and
    Government Investigations  

A number of proceedings, described
    below, generally challenge certain of our competitive practices,
    contending generally that we improperly condition price rebates
    and other discounts on our microprocessors on exclusive or near
    exclusive dealing by some of our customers. We believe that we
    compete lawfully and that our marketing practices benefit our
    customers and our stockholders, and we will continue to
    vigorously defend ourselves. The distractions caused by
    challenges to our business practices, however, are undesirable,
    and the legal and other costs associated with defending our
    position have been and continue to be significant. We assume, as
    should investors, that these challenges could continue for a
    number of years and may require the investment of substantial
    additional management time and substantial financial resources
    to explain and defend our position. While management presently
    believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings,
    individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm the
    company s financial position, cash flows, or overall trends
    in results of operations, these litigation matters and the
    related government investigations are subject to inherent
    uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An
    unfavorable ruling could include substantial money damages and,
    in matters in which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies
    are sought, an injunction or other order prohibiting us from
    selling one or more products at all or in particular ways. Were
    unfavorable final outcomes to occur, our business, results of
    operation, financial position, and overall trends could be
    materially harmed.

In June 2005, AMD filed a
    complaint in the United States District Court for the District
    of Delaware alleging that we and our Japanese subsidiary engaged
    in various actions in violation of the Sherman Act and the
    California Business and Professions Code, including, among other
    things, providing discounts and rebates to our manufacturer and
    distributor customers conditioned on exclusive or near exclusive
    dealing that allegedly unfairly interfered with AMD s
    ability to sell its microprocessors, interfering with certain
    AMD product launches, and interfering with AMD s
    participation in certain industry standards-setting groups.
    AMD s complaint seeks unspecified treble damages, punitive
    damages, an injunction requiring Intel to cease any conduct
    found to be unlawful, and attorneys  fees and costs. We
    have answered the complaint, denying the material allegations
    and asserting various affirmative defenses. The discovery
    cut-off of the AMD litigation is set for May 1, 2009. In
    February 2007, we reported to the Court that we had discovered
    certain lapses in our retention of electronic documents. We then
    stipulated to a court order requiring us to further investigate
    and report on those lapses, as well as develop a plan to
    remediate the issues. We completed the investigation and
    provided detailed information to the Court and AMD throughout
    2007 and 2008. The Court also approved our remediation plan,
    which is now almost completed. The Court granted our request for
    an order to permit discovery against AMD in order to investigate
    its retention practices, including potential lapses in
    AMD s retention of electronic documents. The parties have
    largely completed document discovery and are in the process of
    taking depositions of current and former employees and of third
    parties. The AMD litigation currently is scheduled for trial to
    commence on February 15, 2010.

AMD s Japanese subsidiary
    also filed suits in the Tokyo High Court and the Tokyo District
    Court against our Japanese subsidiary, asserting violations of
    Japan s Antimonopoly Law and alleging damages in each suit
    of approximately $55 million, plus various other costs and
    fees. Proceedings in those matters are ongoing.

105

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In addition, at least 82 separate
    class actions have been filed in the U.S. District Courts
    for the Northern District of California, Southern District of
    California, District of Idaho, District of Nebraska, District of
    New Mexico, District of Maine, and District of Delaware, as well
    as in various California, Kansas, and Tennessee state courts.
    These actions generally repeat AMD s allegations and assert
    various consumer injuries, including that consumers in various
    states have been injured by paying higher prices for computers
    containing our microprocessors. All of the federal class actions
    and the Kansas and Tennessee state court class actions have been
    or will be consolidated by the Multidistrict Litigation Panel to
    the District of Delaware and are being coordinated for pre-trial
    purposes with the AMD litigation. The putative class in the
    coordinated actions has moved for class certification, which we
    are in the process of opposing. All California class actions
    have been consolidated to the Superior Court of California in
    Santa Clara County. The plaintiffs in the California
    actions have moved for class certification, which we are in the
    process of opposing. At our request, the Court in the California
    actions has agreed to delay ruling on this motion until after
    the Delaware Federal Court rules on the similar motion in the
    coordinated actions.

We dispute AMD s claims and
    the
     class-action 
    claims, and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously.

We are also subject to certain
    antitrust regulatory inquiries. In 2001, the European Commission
    (EC) commenced an investigation regarding claims by AMD that we
    used unfair business practices to persuade clients to buy our
    microprocessors. The EC sent us a Statement of Objections (SO)
    in July 2007 alleging that certain Intel marketing and pricing
    practices amounted to an abuse of a dominant position that
    infringed European law. The SO recognized that such allegations
    are preliminary, not final, conclusions. We responded to those
    allegations in January 2008, and a hearing was held in March
    2008. In February 2008, the EC initiated an inspection of
    documents at our Feldkirchen, Germany offices. We also received
    additional requests for information from the EC. On
    July 17, 2008, the EC sent us a Supplementary Statement of
    Objections (SSO) alleging that certain Intel marketing and
    pricing practices amounted to an abuse of a dominant position
    that infringed European law. The SSO recognizes that such
    allegations are preliminary, not final, conclusions.

In October 2008, we filed an
    appeal with the Court of First Instance (CFI) in Europe related
    to procedural rulings of the EC concerning Intel s response
    to the SSO. In the appeal, we asked the CFI to overrule EC
    decisions that limit the evidence available to Intel and that we
    believe will hinder Intel s ability to conduct a fair and
    effective defense against the allegations contained in the SSO.
    On January 27, 2009, the CFI rejected Intel s appeal,
    ruling that Intel s requests were inadmissible and would
    not be considered by the Court at this time. Intel filed a
    response to the SSO on February 5, 2009.

On December 19, 2008, Intel
    received a  Letter of Fact  from the EC, which
    included additional evidentiary material related to the original
    SO that the EC provided to Intel as a  courtesy  and
    not because of any  obligation  to do so. In addition,
    the EC stated that  it cannot be excluded at this stage of
    the procedure that the [EC] may adopt a decision  adverse
    to Intel pursuant to Article 7 of the Council Regulation on
    the implementation of the rules on competition laid down in
    Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty. The EC s letter
    outlined certain alleged evidence that the EC may rely on in
    reaching any such decision.

With respect to both the SO and
    the SSO, the options available to the EC include taking no
    action, imposing a monetary fine,
     and/or 
    ordering Intel to modify or terminate certain marketing and
    pricing practices. The EC s rules provide that the maximum
    monetary fine could equal 10% of Intel s global turnover
    for all products and services for the prior fiscal year. Any
    such decision would be subject to appeal. Intel lacks sufficient
    information to predict the EC s future course of action,
    and both the outcome and the range of any potential actions by
    the EC are not reasonably estimable.

In June 2005, we received an
    inquiry from the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) requesting
    documents from our Korean subsidiary related to marketing and
    rebate programs that we entered into with Korean PC
    manufacturers. In February 2006, the KFTC initiated an
    inspection of documents at our offices in Korea. In September
    2007, the KFTC served us an Examination Report alleging that
    sales to two customers during parts of 2002 2005 violated
    Korea s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act. In December
    2007, we submitted our written response to the KFTC. In February
    2008, the KFTC s examiner submitted a written reply to our
    response. In March, we submitted a further response. In April,
    we participated in a pre-hearing conference before the KFTC, and
    we participated in formal hearings in May and June 2008. In June
    2008, the KFTC announced its intent to fine us approximately
    $25 million for providing discounts to Samsung Electronics
    Co., Ltd. and TriGem Computer Inc. On November 7, 2008, the
    KFTC issued a final written decision concluding that
    Intel s discounts had violated Korean antitrust law and
    imposing a fine on Intel of approximately $20 million,
    which Intel paid in January 2009. On December 9, 2008,
    Intel appealed this decision by filing a lawsuit in the Seoul
    High Court seeking to overturn the KFTC s decision. That
    lawsuit is pending.

106

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In January 2008, we received a
    subpoena from the Attorney General of the State of New York
    requesting documents and information to assist in its
    investigation of whether there have been any agreements or
    arrangements establishing or maintaining a monopoly in the sale
    of microprocessors in violation of federal or New York antitrust
    laws. We continue to cooperate and provide requested information
    in connection with this investigation.

In June 2008, the
    U.S. Federal Trade Commission announced a formal
    investigation into our sales practices. We continue to cooperate
    and provide requested information in connection with this
    investigation.

We dispute any claims made in
    these investigations that Intel has acted unlawfully. We intend
    to cooperate with and respond to these investigations as
    appropriate, and we expect that these matters will be acceptably
    resolved.

Intel
    Corporation v. Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
    Research Organisation (CSIRO)  

In May 2005, Intel filed a lawsuit
    in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
    California against CSIRO, an Australian research institute.
    CSIRO had sent letters to Intel customers claiming that products
    compliant with the IEEE 802.11a and 802.11g standards infringe
    CSIRO s U.S. Patent No. 5,487,069 (the  069
    patent). Intel s lawsuit seeks a declaration that the CSIRO
    patent is invalid and that no Intel product infringes it. Dell
    Inc. is a co-declaratory judgment plaintiff with Intel;
    Microsoft Corporation, Netgear Inc., and Hewlett-Packard Company
    filed a similar, separate lawsuit against CSIRO. In its amended
    answer, CSIRO claimed that various Intel products that practice
    the IEEE 802.11a, 802.11g,
     and/or  draft
    802.11n standards infringe the  069 patent. Trial is set
    for April 13, 2009. CSIRO s complaint seeks, among
    other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. CSIRO has stated
    in pre-trial proceedings that it intends to seek damages in the
    form of a royalty for alleged infringement in an amount that, if
    CSIRO prevailed on its claims against all defendants, could
    result in a judgment against Intel in excess of
    $400 million. In a separate lawsuit (in which Intel is not
    involved) against a third-party vendor of wireless networking
    products based on the same patent at issue in the Intel
    litigation, pending in the United States District Court for the
    Eastern District of Texas, the Court granted CSIRO s
    motions for summary judgment on the issues of validity and
    infringement, and granted a permanent injunction in favor of
    CSIRO. In September 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Federal Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part that
    ruling, concluding that the patent was infringed by the
    third-parties  products, but that the District Court erred
    in concluding, as a matter of law, that the patent is valid.
    Intel disputes CSIRO s claims and intends to defend the
    lawsuit vigorously.

Barbara s
    Sales, et al. v. Intel Corporation, Gateway Inc.,
    Hewlett-Packard Company and HPDirect, Inc.  

In June 2002, various plaintiffs
    filed a lawsuit in the Third Judicial Circuit Court, Madison
    County, Illinois, against Intel, Gateway Inc., Hewlett-Packard
    Company, and HPDirect, Inc. alleging that the defendants 
    advertisements and statements misled the public by suppressing
    and concealing the alleged material fact that systems containing
    Intel   

    Pentium   

    4 processors are less powerful and slower than systems
    containing
    Intel   

    Pentium   

     III   
    processors and a competitor s microprocessors. In July
    2004, the Court certified against us an Illinois-only class of
    certain end-use purchasers of certain Pentium 4 processors or
    computers containing these microprocessors. In January 2005, the
    Court granted a motion filed jointly by the plaintiffs and Intel
    that stayed the proceedings in the trial court pending
    discretionary appellate review of the Court s class
    certification order. In July 2006, the Illinois Appellate Court,
    Fifth District, vacated the trial court s class
    certification order. The Appellate Court instructed the trial
    court to reconsider whether California law should apply.
    However, in August 2006, the Illinois Supreme Court agreed to
    review the Appellate Court s decision. In November 2007,
    the Illinois Supreme Court issued its opinion finding in favor
    of Intel on two issues. First, on the issue of whether Illinois
    or California law applies to the claims of Illinois residents
    for goods purchased in Illinois, the Court found that Illinois
    law applies, rejecting the Appellate Court s finding of a
    nationwide class based on application of the California law.
    Second, on the issue of whether any class should be certified in
    this case at all, the Court held that no class should be
    certified, reversing the trial court s finding of an
    Illinois-only class based on Illinois law. The case was remanded
    to the trial court, and in March 2008 an order was entered
    dismissing the case with prejudice based on our motion to
    dismiss.

107

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Frank T.
    Shum v. Intel Corporation, Jean-Marc Verdiell and
    LightLogic, Inc.  

Intel acquired LightLogic, Inc. in
    May 2001. Frank Shum has sued Intel, LightLogic, and
    LightLogic s founder, Jean-Marc Verdiell, claiming that
    much of LightLogic s intellectual property is based on
    alleged inventions that Shum conceived while he and Verdiell
    were partners at Radiance Design, Inc. Shum has alleged claims
    for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, fraudulent concealment, and
    breach of contract. Shum also seeks alleged correction of
    inventorship of seven patents acquired by Intel as part of the
    LightLogic acquisition. In January 2005, the U.S. District
    Court for the Northern District of California denied Shum s
    inventorship claim, and thereafter granted Intel s motion
    for summary judgment on Shum s remaining claims. In August
    2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
    vacated the District Court s rulings and remanded the case
    for further proceedings. In October 2008, the District Court
    granted Intel s motion for summary judgment on Shum s
    claims for breach of fiduciary duty and fraudulent concealment,
    but denied Intel s motion on Shum s remaining claims.
    A jury trial on Shum s remaining claims took place in
    November and December 2008. In pre-trial proceedings and at
    trial, Shum requested monetary damages against the defendants in
    amounts ranging from $31 million to $931 million, and
    his final request to the jury was for as much as
    $175 million. Following deliberations, the jury was unable
    to reach a verdict on most of the claims. With respect to
    Shum s claim that he is the proper inventor on certain
    LightLogic patents now assigned to Intel, the jury agreed with
    Shum on some of those claims. But the jury was unable to reach a
    verdict on the breach of contract, fraud, or unjust enrichment
    claims. All parties have filed post-trial motions, which the
    Court is currently considering. Intel disputes Shum s
    claims and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously.

Martin
    Smilow v. Craig R. Barrett et al.   Intel Corporation;
    Christine Del Gaizo v. Paul S. Otellini et al.   Intel
    Corporation  

In February 2008, Martin Smilow,
    an Intel stockholder, filed a putative derivative action in the
    United States District Court for the District of Delaware
    against members of our Board of Directors. The complaint alleges
    generally that the Board allowed the company to violate
    antitrust and other laws, as described in AMD s antitrust
    lawsuits against us, and that those Board-sanctioned activities
    have harmed the company. The complaint repeats many of
    AMD s allegations and references various investigations by
    the European Community, Korean Fair Trade Commission, and
    others. In February 2008, a second plaintiff, Evan Tobias, filed
    a derivative suit in the same court against the Board containing
    many of the same allegations as in the Smilow suit. On
    July 30, 2008, the District Court entered an order
    directing Smilow and Tobias to file a single, consolidated
    complaint by August 7, 2008 and directing us to respond
    within 30 days thereafter. An amended consolidated
    complaint was filed on August 7, 2008. On June 27,
    2008, a third plaintiff, Christine Del Gaizo, filed a derivative
    suit in the Santa Clara County Superior Court against the
    Board, a former director of the Board, and six of our officers,
    containing many of the same allegations as in the Smilow and
    Tobias suits. On August 27, 2008, the parties in the
    California derivative suit entered into a stipulation to stay
    the action pending further order of the Court, and the Court
    entered an order to that effect on September 2, 2008. We
    deny the allegations and intend to defend the lawsuits
    vigorously. On September 5, 2008, all of the defendants in
    the Delaware derivative action filed a motion to dismiss the
    complaint. Briefing on the defendants  motion is complete
    and a ruling is expected in early 2009.

Note 25:
    Operating Segment and Geographic Information  

As of December 27, 2008, our
    operating segments included the Digital Enterprise Group,
    Mobility Group, NAND Solutions Group, Digital Home Group,
    Digital Health Group, and Software and Services Group.

In the second quarter of 2008, we
    completed a reorganization that transferred the revenue and
    costs associated with a portion of the Digital Home Group s
    consumer PC components business to the Digital Enterprise Group.
    The Digital Home Group now focuses on the consumer electronics
    components business. We adjusted our historical results to
    reflect this reorganization. Prior-period amounts have also been
    adjusted retrospectively to reflect other minor reorganizations.

108

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The Chief Operating Decision Maker
    (CODM), as defined by SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures
    about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information 
    (SFAS No. 131), is our President and CEO. The CODM
    allocates resources to and assesses the performance of each
    operating segment using information about its revenue and
    operating income (loss) before interest and taxes.

We report the financial results of
    the following operating segments:

Digital Enterprise
    Group.    Includes
    microprocessors and related chipsets and motherboards designed
    for the desktop (including high-end enthusiast PCs), nettop, and
    enterprise computing market segments; microprocessors and
    related chipsets for embedded applications; communications
    infrastructure components such as network processors and
    communications boards; wired connectivity devices; and products
    for network and server storage.

Mobility
    Group.    Includes
    microprocessors and related chipsets designed for the notebook
    and netbook market segments, wireless connectivity products, and
    products designed for the ultra-mobile market segment, which
    includes mobile Internet devices. In the fourth quarter of 2006,
    we completed the sale of certain assets of our communications
    and application processor business lines to Marvell. Related to
    the sale, we entered into a manufacturing and transition
    services agreement with Marvell. As a result, our sales of
    application and cellular baseband processors in 2007 and 2008
    were only to Marvell.

The NAND Solutions Group, Digital
    Home Group, Digital Health Group, and Software and Services
    Group operating segments do not meet the quantitative thresholds
    for reportable segments as defined by SFAS No. 131 and
    are included within the all other category.

We have sales and marketing,
    manufacturing, finance, and administration groups. Expenses for
    these groups are generally allocated to the operating segments,
    and the expenses are included in the operating results reported
    below. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2007, we started
    including share-based compensation in the computation of
    operating income (loss) for each operating segment and adjusted
    prior results to reflect this change. Revenue for the all other
    category is primarily related to the sale of NAND flash memory
    products, microprocessors and related chipsets by the Digital
    Home Group, and NOR flash memory products. In the second quarter
    of 2008, we completed the divestiture of our NOR flash memory
    assets to Numonyx. At that time, we entered into supply and
    service agreements to provide products, services, and support to
    Numonyx following the close of the transaction. Revenue and
    expenses related to the supply and service agreements are
    included in the all other category. For further information on
    Numonyx, see  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments. 

The all other category includes
    certain corporate-level operating expenses and charges. These
    expenses and charges include:

a portion of profit-dependent
    bonuses and other expenses not allocated to the operating
    segments;

results of operations of seed
    businesses that support our initiatives;

acquisition-related costs,
    including amortization and any impairment of acquisition-related
    intangibles and goodwill;

charges for purchased in-process
    research and development; and

amounts included within
    restructuring and asset impairment charges.

With the exception of goodwill, we
    do not identify or allocate assets by operating segment, nor
    does the CODM evaluate operating segments using discrete asset
    information. Operating segments do not record inter-segment
    revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported. We do
    not allocate gains and losses from equity investments, interest
    and other income, or taxes to operating segments. Although the
    CODM uses operating income to evaluate the segments, operating
    costs included in one segment may benefit other segments. Except
    as discussed above, the accounting policies for segment
    reporting are the same as for Intel as a whole.

109

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Operating segment net revenue and
    operating income (loss) for the three years ended
    December 27, 2008 were as follows:

In 2008, one customer accounted
    for 20% of our net revenue (17% in 2007 and 16% in 2006), while
    another customer accounted for 18% of our net revenue (18% in
    2007 and 19% in 2006). The majority of the revenue from these
    customers was from the sale of microprocessors, chipsets, and
    other components by the Digital Enterprise Group and Mobility
    Group operating segments.

Geographic revenue information for
    the three years ended December 27, 2008 is based on the
    location of the customer. Revenue from unaffiliated customers
    was as follows:

Revenue from unaffiliated
    customers outside the U.S. totaled $32,124 million in
    2008 ($32,319 million in 2007 and $29,896 million in
    2006).

110

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Net property, plant and equipment
    by country was as follows:

Net property, plant and equipment
    outside the U.S. totaled $6,320 million in 2008
    ($6,271 million in 2007 and $6,044 million in 2006).

111

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel
    Corporation  

We have audited the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheets of Intel Corporation as of
    December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, and the
    related consolidated statements of income, stockholders 
    equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended December 27, 2008. Our audits also included the
    financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
    Part IV, Item 15. These financial statements and
    schedule are the responsibility of the company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
    financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
    plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
    whether the financial statements are free of material
    misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
    evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
    principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
    well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
    We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinion.

In our opinion, the financial
    statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
    respects, the consolidated financial position of Intel
    Corporation at December 27, 2008 and December 29,
    2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
    cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 27, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
    related financial statement schedule, when considered in
    relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
    presents fairly in all material respects the information set
    forth therein.

As discussed in Notes 2 and
    23 to the consolidated financial statements, Intel Corporation
    changed its method of accounting for sabbatical leave as of
    December 31, 2006, its method of accounting for uncertain
    tax positions as of December 31, 2006, and its method of
    accounting for its defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement plans during 2006.

We also have audited, in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States), Intel Corporation s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 27, 2008, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    and our report dated February 17, 2009 expressed an
    unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 17, 2009

112

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel
    Corporation  

We have audited Intel
    Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 27, 2008, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Intel Corporation s management is
    responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting included in the
    accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on the company s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
    plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
    obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
    reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
    testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such
    other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control
    over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. A company s internal control over
    financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
    (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
    (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent
    limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
    evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
    risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
    conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
    or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Intel Corporation
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 27, 2008, based on
    the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States), the 2008 consolidated financial
    statements of Intel Corporation and our report dated
    February 17, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 17, 2009

113

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY QUARTER (UNAUDITED)  

1   

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a total of
    $938 million in impairment charges related to our Clearwire
    investments. $762 million was related to our investment in
    Clearwire LLC and $176 million was related to our
    investment in the new Clearwire Corporation. For further
    information, see  Note 6: Equity Method and Cost
    Method Investments  and  Note 5:
    Available-for-Sale Investments,  respectively, in the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements of this
     Form 10-K.   

2   

Intel s common stock (symbol INTC) trades on The NASDAQ
    Global Select Market* and is quoted in the  Wall Street
    Journal  and other newspapers. Intel s common stock also
    trades on The Swiss Exchange. As of December 27, 2008,
    there were approximately 180,000 registered holders of common
    stock. All stock prices are closing prices per The NASDAQ Global
    Select Market.  

3   

In connection with IRS settlements reached in 2007, we
    recorded a $326 million tax benefit (including
    $50 million of accrued interest) in the first quarter of
    2007 and a $155 million tax benefit in the second quarter
    of 2007. For further information, see  Note 23:
    Taxes  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of
    this
     Form 10-K. 
    We did not have any significant settlements and related tax
    benefits in the third and fourth quarters of 2007.  

114

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.   

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.   

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Based on management s
    evaluation (with the participation of our CEO and Chief
    Financial Officer (CFO)), as of the end of the period covered by
    this report, our CEO and CFO have concluded that our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
    Exchange Act)), are effective to provide reasonable assurance
    that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that
    we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
    SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes
    in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

There were no changes to our
    internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered
    by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably
    likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
    reporting.

Management
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Our management is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

Management assessed our internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 27, 2008,
    the end of our fiscal year. Management based its assessment on
    criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission. Management s assessment included
    evaluation of elements such as the design and operating
    effectiveness of key financial reporting controls, process
    documentation, accounting policies, and our overall control
    environment.

Based on our assessment,
    management has concluded that our internal control over
    financial reporting was effective as of the end of the fiscal
    year to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
    of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
    statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We reviewed
    the results of management s assessment with the Audit
    Committee of our Board of Directors.

Our independent registered public
    accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, independently
    assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal
    control over financial reporting. Ernst   Young has
    issued an attestation report concurring with management s
    assessment, which is included at the end of Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Inherent
    Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls  

Our management, including the CEO
    and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls or our
    internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect
    all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well
    designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
    absolute, assurance that the control system s objectives
    will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the
    fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of
    controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further,
    because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that
    misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been
    detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that
    judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns
    can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also
    be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by
    collusion of two or more people, or by management override of
    the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in
    part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future
    events, and there can be no assurance that any design will
    succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
    conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls
    effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time,
    controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions
    or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
    procedures.

ITEM 9B.   

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

None.

115

Table of Contents   

PART III  

ITEM 10.   

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

The information in our 2009 Proxy
    Statement regarding directors and executive officers appearing
    under the headings  Proposal 1: Election of
    Directors  and  Other Matters Section 16(a)
    Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  is incorporated
    by reference in this section. The information under the heading
     Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I,
    Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K 
    is also incorporated by reference in this section. In addition,
    the information under the heading  Corporate
    Governance  in our 2009 Proxy Statement is incorporated by
    reference in this section.

The Intel Code of Conduct (Code)
    is our code of ethics document applicable to all employees,
    including all officers, and including our independent directors,
    who are not employees of the company, with regard to their
    Intel-related activities. The Code incorporates our guidelines
    designed to deter wrongdoing and to promote honest and ethical
    conduct and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The
    Code also incorporates our expectations of our employees that
    enable us to provide accurate and timely disclosure in our
    filings with the SEC and other public communications. In
    addition, the Code incorporates guidelines pertaining to topics
    such as complying with applicable laws, rules, and regulations;
    reporting Code violations; and maintaining accountability for
    adherence to the Code.

The full text of our Code is
    published on our Investor Relations web site at
     www.intc.com . We intend to disclose future amendments to
    certain provisions of our Code, or waivers of such provisions
    granted to executive officers and directors, on the web site
    within four business days following the date of such amendment
    or waiver.

ITEM 11.   

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

The information appearing in our
    2009 Proxy Statement under the headings  Director
    Compensation,   Compensation Discussion and
    Analysis,   Report of the Compensation
    Committee,  and  Executive Compensation  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM 12.   

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

The information appearing in our
    2009 Proxy Statement under the heading  Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

Information regarding shares
    authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans approved
    and not approved by stockholders in our 2009 Proxy Statement
    under the heading  Proposal 3: Approval of Amendment
    and Extension of the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM 13.   

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

The information appearing in our
    2009 Proxy Statement under the headings  Corporate
    Governance  and  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  is incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM 14.   

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The information appearing in our
    2009 Proxy Statement under the headings  Report of the
    Audit Committee  and  Proposal 2: Ratification of
    Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    is incorporated by reference in this section.

116

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

ITEM 15.   

EXHIBITS,
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

1. Financial Statements: See
     Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

2. Financial Statement
    Schedule: See  Schedule II Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts  in this section of this
     Form 10-K. 

3. Exhibits: The exhibits
    listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed or
    incorporated by reference as part of this
     Form 10-K. 

Certain of the agreements filed as
    exhibits to this
     Form 10-K 
    contain representations and warranties by the parties to the
    agreements that have been made solely for the benefit of the
    parties to the agreement. These representations and warranties:

may have been qualified by
    disclosures that were made to the other parties in connection
    with the negotiation of the agreements, which disclosures are
    not necessarily reflected in the agreements;

may apply standards of materiality
    that differ from those of a reasonable investor; and

were made only as of specified
    dates contained in the agreements and are subject to later
    developments.

Accordingly, these representations
    and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as
    of the date they were made or at any other time, and investors
    should not rely on them as statements of fact.

Intel, Intel logo, Intel
    Inside, Intel Atom, Celeron, Intel Centrino, Intel Core,
    Intel vPro, Intel Xeon, Itanium, and Pentium are trademarks
    of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other
    countries.  

*   

Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of
    others.  

117

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
    ACCOUNTS  

December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007, and
    December 30, 2006

(In Millions)

1   

Deductions represent uncollectible accounts written off, net
    of recoveries.  

118

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

119

Table of Contents   

120

Table of Contents   

121

Table of Contents   

**   

Management contracts or compensation plans or arrangements in
    which directors or executive officers are eligible to
    participate.  

122

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
    behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION

Registrant

By: 

/s/   Stacy
    J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and

Principal Accounting Officer

February 20, 2009

Pursuant to the requirements of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
    below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
    in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

123

<EX-10.45>
 2
 f50771exv10w45.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 STOCK PURCHASE PLAN, EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 20, 2009

exv10w45 

Exhibit 10.45 

AMENDMENT TO THE 
INTEL CORPORATION 2006 STOCK PURCHASE PLAN 

1. 
       
     Effective with the enrollment period applicable to the subscription period beginning on
February 20, 2009, Section 5(a) of the Intel Corporation 2006 Stock Purchase Plan is amended
in its entirety to read as follows: 

(a) 
       
     An Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan in accordance with its
terms on a Commencement Date shall automatically receive an option in accordance with
Section 8(a) and may become a Participant by completing and submitting, on or before
the date prescribed by the Committee with respect to a given Subscription Period, a
completed payroll deduction authorization and Plan enrollment form provided by Intel or
its Participating Subsidiaries or by following an electronic or other enrollment
process as prescribed by the Committee. An eligible Employee may authorize payroll
deductions at the rate of any whole percentage of the Employee s Compensation, not to
be less than two percent (2%) and not to exceed five percent (5%) of the Employee s
Compensation (or such other percentages as the Committee may establish from time to
time before a Commencement Date) of such Employee s Compensation on each payday during
the Subscription Period. All payroll deductions will be held in a general corporate
account or a trust account. No interest shall be paid or credited to the Participant
with respect to such payroll deductions. Intel shall maintain or cause to be maintained
a separate bookkeeping account for each Participant under the Plan and the amount of
each Participant s payroll deductions shall be credited to such account. A Participant
may not make any additional payments into such account, unless payroll deductions are
prohibited under Applicable Law, in which case the provisions of Section 5(b) of the
Plan shall apply.  

2. 
       
     Effective with the enrollment period applicable to the subscription period beginning on
February 20, 2009, Section 5(d) of the Intel Corporation 2006 Stock Purchase Plan is amended
in its entirety to read as follows: 

A Participant may not increase his or her rate of contribution through payroll
deductions or otherwise during a given Subscription Period. A Participant may
decrease his or her rate of contribution through payroll deductions one time only
during a given Subscription Period and only during an open enrollment period or such
other times specified by the Committee by filing a new payroll deduction
authorization and Plan enrollment form or by following electronic or other
procedures prescribed by the Committee. If a Participant has not followed such
procedures to change the rate of contribution, the rate of contribution shall
continue at 

1. 

the originally elected rate throughout the Subscription Period and future
Subscription Periods; unless the Committee reduces the maximum rate of contribution
provided in Section 5(a) and a Participant s rate of contribution exceeds the
reduced maximum rate of contribution, in which case the rate of contribution shall
continue at the reduced maximum rate of contribution. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code for
a given calendar year, the Committee may reduce a Participant s payroll deductions
to zero percent (0%) at any time during a Subscription Period scheduled to end
during such calendar year. Payroll deductions shall re-commence at the rate provided
in such Participant s enrollment form at the beginning of the first Subscription
Period which is scheduled to end in the following calendar year, unless terminated
by the Participant as provided in Section 5(c). 

2. 

</EX-10.45>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 f50771exv12w1.htm
 STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1 

INTEL CORPORATION 2008 FORM 10-K 

STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION 
OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES FOR INTEL CORPORATION 

(In Millions, Except Ratios)

1   
       
      After adjustments required by Item 503(d) of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K.  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 f50771exv21w1.htm
 INTEL CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21.1 

INTEL CORPORATION 
SUBSIDIARIES (All 100% Owned) 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant  
       
      State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Componentes Intel de Costa Rica, S.A.

Costa Rica 

Intel Americas, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Asia Holding Limited

Hong Kong 

Intel Capital (Cayman) Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Copenhagen ApS

Denmark 

Intel Corp UK Ltd.

England and Wales 

Intel Electronics Ltd.

Israel 

Intel Europe, Inc.

California, U.S. 

Intel International

California, U.S. 

Intel Ireland Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Israel (74) Limited

Israel 

Intel Kabushiki Kaisha

Japan 

Intel Malaysia Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Intel Massachusetts, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Overseas Funding Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Products (M) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Intel Semiconductor Limited

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Technology Phils., Inc.

Philippines 

Intel Technology Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Mission College Investments Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 f50771exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

Exhibit
23.1 

CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos.
333-84247, 33-33983, 33-63489, 333-24229, 333-45395, 333-67537, 333-90807, 333-77279, 333-82387,
333-96255, 333-33188, 333-34154, 333-36526, 333-38134, 333-39422, 333-42408, 333-46220, 333-49696,
333-57366, 333-59518, 333-59522, 333-59530, 333-63330, 333-115625, 333-124805, 333-135178,
333-135177, 333-143932, 333-125914, and 333-141905; and Form S-3 No 333-132865) of Intel
Corporation of our reports dated February 17, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements and schedule of Intel Corporation, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Intel Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year
ended December 27, 2008.

/s/
Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California 
February 17, 2009

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 f50771exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

The following certification includes references to an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of the company s  disclosure controls and procedures  and to certain matters related
to the company s  internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9A of Part II of this Form 10-K
presents the conclusions of the CEO and the CFO about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting based on and as of the date of such
evaluations (related to Item 4 of the certification), and contains additional information
concerning disclosures to our Audit Committee and independent auditors with regard to deficiencies
in internal control over financial reporting and fraud and related matters (Item 5 of the
certification).

CERTIFICATION 

I, Paul S. Otellini, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 20, 2009  
     By:   
     /s/  Paul S. Otellini 

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 f50771exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO AND PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

The following certification includes references to an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of the company s  disclosure controls and procedures  and to certain matters related
to the company s  internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9A of Part II of this Form 10-K
presents the conclusions of the CEO and the CFO about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting based on and as of the date of such
evaluations (related to Item 4 of the certification), and contains additional information
concerning disclosures to our Audit Committee and independent auditors with regard to deficiencies
in internal control over financial reporting and fraud and related matters (Item 5 of the
certification).

CERTIFICATION 

I, Stacy J. Smith, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 20, 2009  
     By:   
     /s/  Stacy J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith  

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 f50771exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO/PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(B) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 

Each of the undersigned hereby certifies, for the purposes of section 1350 of chapter 63 of title
18 of the United States Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
in his capacity as an officer of Intel Corporation (Intel), that, to his knowledge, the Annual
Report of Intel on Form 10-K for the period ended December 27, 2008, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information
contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of Intel. This written statement is being furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission as an exhibit to such Form 10-K. A signed original of this statement has been
provided to Intel and will be retained by Intel and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

Date: February 20, 2009  
     By:   
     /s/  Paul S. Otellini 

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 20, 2009  
     By:   
     /s/  Stacy J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith  

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-32.1>

