<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080229_10-K_edgar_data_310158_0000950123-08-002339_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2432053</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>666981</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>11184</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1288513</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>93</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-08-002339.hdr.sgml : 20080229
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080229143249
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-08-002339
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080229
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080229

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHERING PLOUGH CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000310158
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221918501
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06571
		FILM NUMBER:		08654691

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2000 GALLOPING HILL ROAD
		CITY:			KENILWORTH
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07033
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9082984000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2000 GALLOPING HILL ROAD
		CITY:			KENILWORTH
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07033

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 EQOnYADc7thVm8As8fNRG6/PdwFeV9TsXWZIUAIID7foqfcL+2VNMbFwg0+JrM2Q
 2LPA50Raat41pls98AZkLA==

 0000950123-08-002339.txt : 20080229

10-K
 1
 y50144e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number 1-6571 

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(908) 298-4000  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Shares, $.50 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights*

New York Stock Exchange

*  

At the time of filing, the Rights were not traded separately
    from the Common Shares. 

Securities
    registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  

None.

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period the registrant was
    required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check One):

Large Accelerated
    Filer    

Accelerated
    Filer    

Non-accelerated
    Filer      
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    company     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes         No   

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting
    common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to
    the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the
    average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of
    June 30, 2007 (the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
    quarter): $45,516,213,799

Common Shares outstanding as of January 31, 2008:
    1,621,353,851

Part of Form 10-K 

Documents Incorporated by Reference 

Incorporated into 

Schering-Plough Corporation Proxy Statement for the

Part III

Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 16, 2008

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

3

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

13

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

22

Item 2. 

Properties 

22

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

22

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

27

Executive Officers of the Registrant

27

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity and
    Related Stockholder Matters 

28

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

30

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

31

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
    Market Risk 

59

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

60

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

110

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

110

Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting 

110

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant 

114

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

114

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

114

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

115

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

115

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

116

SIGNATURES 

122

EX-10.D: 2006 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
     EX-10.E.VIII: EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH BRENT SAUNDERS    
     EX-10.J: SEVERANCE BENEFIT PLAN    
     EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-23.2: INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S CONSENT    
     EX-24: POWER OF ATTORNEY    
     EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION    

2

Table of Contents   

Part I  

Item 1.      

Business   

Overview
    of the Business  

Schering-Plough refers to Schering-Plough Corporation and its
    subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated by the context.
    Schering Corporation, a predecessor company, was incorporated in
    New York in 1928 and New Jersey in 1935. The trademarks
    indicated by CAPITAL LETTERS in this
     10-K  are the
    property of, licensed to, promoted or distributed by
    Schering-Plough Corporation, its subsidiaries or related
    companies.

Schering-Plough is an innovation-driven, science-centered global
    health care company. Through its own biopharmaceutical research
    and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough creates
    therapies that help save and improve lives around the world.
    Schering-Plough applies its
     research-and-development 
    platform to human prescription, animal health and consumer
    products. Schering-Plough s vision is to  Earn Trust,
    Every Day  with the doctors, patients, customers,
    shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. Schering-Plough
    is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is
     www.schering-plough.com .

In April 2003, the Board of Directors recruited Fred Hassan to
    join Schering-Plough as the new Chairman of the Board and Chief
    Executive Officer. With support from the Board, soon after he
    arrived in 2003, Hassan installed a new senior executive
    management team and initiated a strategic plan, with the goal of
    stabilizing, repairing and turning around Schering-Plough in
    order to build long-term shareholder value. That strategic plan,
    the Action Agenda, is a six- to eight-year, five-phase plan.

In 2007 and in the four years since Hassan and the new
    management team arrived, Schering-Plough made substantial
    progress. During 2007, in the fourth phase of the Action
    Agenda   Build the Base   Schering-Plough
    grew and broadened the base of marketed products, expanded the
    late stage research and development project pipeline and closed
    the transformative acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V. (OBS)
    from Akzo Nobel. In acquiring OBS, Schering-Plough gained both
    the Organon human prescription business and the Intervet animal
    health business.

This additional strength is key for Schering-Plough in the
    current environment. The pharmaceutical industry continues to be
    subject to ever-more critical scrutiny, where challenges can
    arise in presenting scientific data in an objective manner.
    Schering-Plough believes that new scientific data are best
    presented and discussed at appropriate scientific and medical
    forums.

As explained in more detail later in this
     10-K,  in
    early 2008, Schering-Plough encountered such a challenge when
    results of a Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals (the
      Merck/Schering-Plough 
    cholesterol joint venture ) clinical trial, called ENHANCE,
    and joint venture products ZETIA and VYTORIN became the subject
    of much media scrutiny prior to presentation of the trial
    results in appropriate medical forums. Results are scheduled to
    be presented at an American College of Cardiology meeting on
    March 30, 2008. While the trial failed to show a
    statistically significant difference between treatment groups
    for the primary endpoint   the mean change in the
    intima-media thickness measured at three sites in the carotid
    arteries (the right and left common carotid, internal carotid
    and carotid bulb) in patients with Heterozygous Familial
    Hypercholesterolemia   the trial did demonstrate
    VYTORIN s effectiveness compared to simvastatin at lowering
    LDL cholesterol (often known as  bad cholesterol ).
    Medical experts and health advisory groups have long recognized
    high LDL cholesterol as a significant cardiovascular risk factor
    and recommended increasingly aggressive treatment of high
    cholesterol for certain patients. Lowering LDL cholesterol,
    along with a healthy diet and lifestyle changes, remains the
    cornerstone of lipid treatment for patients at risk for heart
    disease. Clinical studies have demonstrated that VYTORIN lowers
    patients  LDL cholesterol more than rosuvastatin,
    atorvastatin and simvastatin at the doses studied and was able
    to get more patients to their LDL cholesterol goals (as defined
    by ATP III). While it is too early to tell the impact of the
    joint venture s ENHANCE trial results on the joint
    venture s cholesterol business, Schering-Plough s
    diversified group of products and geographic areas, as well as
    its highly experienced executive team, gives Schering-Plough
    additional strength that will be helpful in weathering this
    situation.

3

Table of Contents   

Segment
    Information  

Schering-Plough has three reportable segments:  Human
    Prescription Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health and Consumer Health
    Care. The segment sales and (loss)/profit data that follow are
    consistent with Schering-Plough s current management
    reporting structure.

Human
    Prescription Pharmaceuticals   

The Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment discovers,
    develops, manufactures and markets human pharmaceutical
    products. Within the Human Prescription Pharmaceutical segment,
    Schering-Plough has a broad range of research projects and
    marketed products in six therapeutic areas: Cardiovascular,
    Central Nervous System, Immunology and Infectious Disease,
    Oncology, Respiratory and Women s Health. The Human
    Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment also includes Nobilon, a
    human vaccine development unit and Diosynth, a third-party
    manufacturing unit. Marketed products include the following:

Cardiovascular Disease:   VYTORIN, a
    cholesterol-lowering tablet combining the dual action of ZETIA
    and Merck   Co., Inc. s statin Zocor
    (simvastatin); ZETIA, a novel cholesterol-absorption inhibitor
    discovered by Schering-Plough scientists, for use as monotherapy
    or in combination with either statins or fenofibrate to lower
    cholesterol; INTEGRILIN Injection, a platelet receptor GP
    IIb/IIIa inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute
    coronary syndrome and those undergoing percutaneous coronary
    intervention in the United States, as well as for the prevention
    of early myocardial infarction in patients with acute coronary
    syndrome in most countries; and ORGARAN, a non-heparin
    antithrombotic.

Central Nervous System:   REMERON, an
    antidepressant; ESMERON/ZEMURON, a muscle relaxant used in
    surgical procedures; SUBUTEX, a sublingual tablet formulation of
    buprenorphine; SUBOXONE, a sublingual tablet combination of
    buprenorphine and naloxone, marketed by Schering-Plough in
    certain countries outside the United States for the treatment of
    opiate addiction; and NORCURON, a muscle relaxant.

Immunology and Infectious Disease:   REMICADE,
    an anti-TNF antibody marketed by Schering-Plough outside of the
    United States, Japan and certain Asian markets for the treatment
    of inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, early
    rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, Crohn s disease,
    ankylosing spondylitis, plaque psoriasis and ulcerative colitis;
    PEGINTRON Powder for Injection, a pegylated interferon product
    for chronic hepatitis C; AVELOX, which is only marketed in
    the U.S., a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for
    certain respiratory and skin infections; and NOXAFIL Oral
    Suspension, for prophylaxis (prevention) of invasive fungal
    infections in high-risk patients and the treatment of
    oropharyngeal candidiasis. It is also approved for the treatment
    of invasive fungal infections in markets outside the U.S.

Oncology:   TEMODAR/TEMODAL Capsules for certain
    types of brain tumors, including newly diagnosed glioblastoma
    multiforme; CAELYX, a long-circulating pegylated liposomal
    formulation of the cancer drug doxorubicin marketed by
    Schering-Plough outside the United States for the treatment of
    certain ovarian cancers, Kaposi s sarcoma and metastatic
    breast cancer; and INTRON A Injection, marketed for chronic
    hepatitis B and C and numerous anticancer indications worldwide,
    including as adjuvant therapy for malignant melanoma.

Respiratory:   NASONEX, a once-daily,
    nasal-inhaled steroid for nasal allergy symptoms, including
    congestion, and for the treatment of nasal polyps in patients
    18 years of age and older; CLARINEX/AERIUS, a non-sedating
    antihistamine for the treatment of allergic rhinitis; FORADIL
    AEROLIZER, a long-acting beta2-agonist marketed by
    Schering-Plough in the United States for the maintenance
    treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
    and for the acute prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm;
    ASMANEX TWISTHALER, an oral dry-powder corticosteroid inhaler
    for first-line maintenance treatment of asthma; and PROVENTIL
    HFA (albuterol) Inhalation Solution, for the relief of
    bronchospasm in patients 12 years or older.

Women s Health:   FOLLISTIM/PUREGON, a
    fertility treatment; NUVARING, a vaginal contraceptive ring;
    LIVIAL, a menopausal therapy; MARVELON/DESOGEN, a low-dose
    combined oral contraceptive; MERCILON, a low-dose combined oral
    contraceptive; and IMPLANON, a single-rod subdermal
    contraceptive implant.

4

Table of Contents   

Animal
    Health   

The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and
    markets animal health products including vaccines. Principal
    marketed products in this segment include:

Livestock Products:   NUFLOR bovine and swine
    antibiotic; BOVILIS/VISTA vaccine lines for infectious diseases
    in cattle; BANAMINE bovine and swine anti-inflammatory;
    TRI-MERIT, data management tool for cattle; REGUMATE/MATRIX
    fertility management for swine and horses; RESFLOR combination
    broad-spectrum antibiotic and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
    drug for bovine respiratory disease; M+PAC swine pneumonia
    vaccine and PORCILIS vaccine line for infectious diseases in
    swine.

Poultry Products:   NOBILIS/INNOVAX vaccine
    lines for poultry; PARACOX and COCCIVAC coccidiosis vaccines for
    poultry.

Companion Animal
    Products:   GALAXY/QUANTUM/PROCYON/ECLIPSE/INTRA-TRAC
    vaccine line for dogs and cats, NOBIVAC/CONTINUUM vaccine lines
    for flexible dog and cat vaccination; OTOMAX/MOMETAMAX canine
    otic ointments for acute and chronic otitis;
    CANINSULIN/VETSULIN, diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and
    cats; PANACUR/SAFEGUARD broad-spectrum anthelmintic (de-wormer)
    for use in many animals, SCALIBOR/EXSPOT, dog collar/spot on
    protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and
    sandflies; HOMEAGAIN proactive U.S. pet recovery network;
    and ZUBRIN, an anti-inflammatory/analgesic for dogs.

Aquaculture Products:   NORVAX/MINOVA vaccines
    against bacterial and viral disease in fish, SLICE parasiticide
    for sea lice in salmon and AQUAFLOR antibiotic for farm-raised
    fish.

Consumer
    Health Care   

The Consumer Health Care segment develops, manufactures and
    markets OTC, foot care and sun care products. Principal products
    in this segment include:

Over-the-Counter (OTC) Products:   CLARITIN
    non-sedating antihistamines; MIRALAX treatment for occasional
    constipation; CORICIDIN HBP decongestant-free cold/flu medicine
    for people with high blood pressure; DRIXORAL cold and allergy,
    allergy sinus, flu and nasal decongestant tablets; AFRIN nasal
    decongestant spray; and CORRECTOL laxative tablets.

Foot Care:   DR. SCHOLL S foot care
    products; LOTRIMIN topical antifungal products; and TINACTIN
    topical antifungal products and foot and sneaker odor/wetness
    products.

Sun Care:   COPPERTONE sun care lotions, sprays,
    dry oils and lip-protection products and sunless tanning
    products; and SOLARCAINE sunburn relief products.

Net
    sales by segment   

5

Table of Contents   

(Loss)/Profit
    by segment   

(1)  

In 2007, the Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment s
    loss includes $3.4 billion of purchase accounting items,
    including acquired in-process research and development of
    $3.2 billion. In 2007, the Animal Health segment s
    loss includes $721 million of purchase accounting items,
    including acquired in-process research and development of
    $600 million. 

Schering-Plough s net sales do not include sales of VYTORIN
    and ZETIA which are managed in the joint venture with Merck, as
    Schering-Plough accounts for this joint venture under the equity
    method of accounting (see Note 4,  Equity
    Income,  under Item 8,  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,  for additional information). Equity
    income from the Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture is included
    in the Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment.

Corporate and other  includes interest income and
    expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, currency option
    gains, headquarters expenses, special and acquisition related
    charges and other miscellaneous items. The accounting policies
    used for segment reporting are the same as those described in
    Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies,  under Item 8,  Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data .

In 2007,  Corporate and other  includes special and
    acquisition related charges of $84 million, comprised of
    $61 million of integration-related costs for the OBS
    acquisition and $23 million of severance charges as part of
    integration activities. It is estimated the charges relate to
    the reportable segments as follows: Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals   $27 million, Animal
    Health   $11 million and Corporate and
    other   $46 million.

In 2006,  Corporate and other  includes special
    charges of $102 million primarily related to changes to
    Schering-Plough s manufacturing operations in the
    U.S. and Puerto Rico announced in June 2006, all of which
    related to the Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment.
    Included in 2006 cost of sales were charges of approximately
    $146 million from the manufacturing streamlining actions
    which were primarily related to the Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals segment.

In 2005,  Corporate and other  includes special
    charges of $294 million, including $28 million of
    employee termination costs, $16 million of asset impairment
    and other charges, and an increase in litigation reserves by
    $250 million resulting in a total reserve of approximately
    $500 million representing Schering-Plough s then
    current estimate to resolve the Massachusetts investigation as
    well as the investigations and the state litigation disclosed
    under  AWP Litigation and Investigations,  in
    Note 20,  Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
    Matters,  in Item 8,  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.  It is estimated that the charges
    relate to the reportable segments as follows: Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals   $289 million, Consumer Health
    Care   $2 million, Animal Health  
    $1 million and Corporate and other  
    $2 million.

See Note 3,  Special and Acquisition Related Charges
    and Manufacturing Streamlining,  under Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  for
    additional information.

6

Table of Contents   

Information
    About the Merck/Schering-Plough Joint Venture   

In May 2000, Schering-Plough and Merck   Co., Inc.
    (Merck) entered into two separate sets of agreements to jointly
    develop and manage certain products in the U.S., including
    (1) two cholesterol-lowering drugs and (2) an
    allergy/asthma drug. In December 2001, the cholesterol
    agreements were expanded to include all countries of the world
    except Japan. In general, the companies agreed that the
    collaborative activities under these agreements would operate in
    a virtual joint venture to the maximum degree possible by
    relying on the respective infrastructures of the two companies.
    These agreements generally provide for equal sharing of
    development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by
    each company.

The cholesterol agreements provide for Schering-Plough and Merck
    to jointly develop and commercialize ezetimibe in the
    cholesterol management field:

i. as a once-daily monotherapy (marketed as ZETIA in the
    U.S. and Asia and EZETROL in Europe);

ii. in co-administration with various approved statin
    drugs; and

iii. as a fixed-combination tablet of ezetimibe and
    simvastatin (Zocor), Merck s cholesterol-modifying
    medicine. This combination medication (ezetimibe/simvastatin) is
    marketed as VYTORIN in the U.S. and as INEGY in many
    international countries.

ZETIA/EZETROL (ezetimibe) and VYTORIN/INEGY (the combination of
    ezetimibe/simvastatin) are approved for use in the U.S. and
    have been launched in several international markets.

Schering-Plough utilizes the equity method of accounting in
    recording its share of activity from the Merck/Schering-Plough
    joint venture. See Note 4,  Equity Income,  under
    Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplemental
    Data,  for additional information regarding the profits and
    costs sharing and accounting as provided by the agreements.

The allergy/asthma agreements provide for the joint development
    and marketing by the companies of a once-daily,
    fixed-combination tablet containing CLARITIN and Singulair.
    Singulair is Merck s once-daily leukotriene receptor
    antagonist for the treatment of asthma and seasonal allergic
    rhinitis. In 2007, a New Drug Application filing for this
    combination tablet had been accepted by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration (FDA) for standard review.

During 2007, Schering-Plough announced that it had agreed with
    Merck to commence development of a single-tablet combination of
    ezetimibe and atorvastatin as a treatment for elevated
    cholesterol levels.

Information
    About the Centocor Licenses   

REMICADE is licensed from and manufactured by Centocor, Inc., a
    Johnson   Johnson company. During 2005,
    Schering-Plough exercised an option under its contract with
    Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize
    golimumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody currently in
    Phase III trials. Schering-Plough has exclusive marketing
    rights to both products outside of the U.S., Japan and certain
    Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor
    revised their distribution agreement regarding the development,
    commercialization and distribution of both REMICADE and
    golimumab, extending Schering-Plough s rights to
    exclusively market REMICADE to match the duration of
    Schering-Plough s exclusive marketing rights for golimumab.
    Effective upon regulatory approval of golimumab in the EU,
    Schering-Plough s marketing rights for both products will
    now extend for 15 years after the first commercial sale of
    golimumab within the EU. Centocor will receive a progressively
    increased share of profits on Schering-Plough s
    distribution of both products in the Schering-Plough marketing
    territory between 2010 and 2014, and the share of profits will
    remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the term. The
    changes to the duration of REMICADE marketing rights and the
    profit sharing arrangement for the products are all conditioned
    on approval of golimumab being granted prior to
    September 1, 2014. Schering-Plough may independently
    develop and market golimumab for a Crohn s disease
    indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to
    participate.

7

Table of Contents   

Global
    Operations  

A majority of Schering-Plough s operations are outside the
    U.S. With the acquisition of OBS in late 2007,
    Schering-Plough s global operations in Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals and Animal Health increased.

Non-U.S. activities 
    are carried out primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries
    wherever market potential is adequate and circumstances permit.
    In addition, Schering-Plough is represented in some markets
    through licensees or other distribution arrangements.

Currently, Schering-Plough has business operations in more than
    140 countries.

For additional information on global operations, see
    Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  and the
    segment information described above in this
     10-K. 

Net
    sales by geographic area   

Schering-Plough has subsidiaries in more than 55 countries
    outside the U.S. Net sales are presented in the geographic
    area in which Schering-Plough s customers are located. The
    following countries accounted for 5 percent or more of
    consolidated net sales during any of the past three years:

Net
    sales by customer   

Sales to a single customer that accounted for 10 percent or
    more of Schering-Plough s consolidated net sales during any
    of the past three years were as follows:

8

Table of Contents   

Supplemental
    sales information   

Sales of products comprising 10 percent or more of
    Schering-Plough s U.S. or international sales for the
    year ended December 31, 2007, were as follows:

Schering-Plough s net sales do not include sales of VYTORIN
    and ZETIA which are managed in the joint venture with Merck, as
    Schering-Plough accounts for this joint venture under the equity
    method of accounting.

Long-lived
    assets by geographic location   

Long-lived assets shown by geographic location are primarily
    intangibles and property. The significant increase in long-lived
    assets as of December 31, 2007 is due to the OBS
    acquisition.

Schering-Plough does not disaggregate assets on a segment basis
    for internal management reporting and, therefore, such
    information is not presented.

Research
    and Development  

Schering-Plough s research activities are primarily aimed
    at discovering and developing new prescription products and
    enhancements to existing human prescription products of medical
    and commercial significance. However, Schering-Plough s
    research and development platform also supports its Animal
    Health and Consumer Health Care products, and often a research
    and development project will have application in more than one
    product segment.

Company-sponsored research and development expenditures were
    $2.9 billion, $2.2 billion, and $1.9 billion in
    2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. As a percentage of
    consolidated net sales, research and development expenditures
    represented approximately 23 percent, 21 percent and
    20 percent in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Schering-Plough s research activities are concentrated in
    the six therapeutic areas of focus: Cardiovascular, Central
    Nervous System, Immunology and Infectious Disease, Oncology,
    Respiratory and Women s Health. Schering-Plough also has
    substantial efforts directed toward biotechnology, vaccine
    development and immunology. Research activities include
    expenditures for both internal research efforts and research
    collaborations with various partners.

While several pharmaceutical compounds are in varying stages of
    development, it cannot be predicted when or if these compounds
    will become available for commercial sale.
    Schering-Plough s product pipeline lists significant
    products in development and is available on
    Schering-Plough s website at www.schering-plough.com. Due
    to the nature of the development and approval
    process   as well as the fact that human

9

Table of Contents   

health is involved and the science of human health is constantly
    evolving   the status of any compounds in development
    is subject to change. Schering-Plough does not assume any duty
    to update this information.

Schering-Plough has several research and development projects
    which have been granted fast-track designation by the FDA
    including: a novel thrombin receptor antagonist for acute
    coronary syndrome and secondary prevention of subsequent
    cardiovascular events; boceprevir (a protease inhibitor
    compound) for hepatitis C; vicriviroc (a CCR5 receptor
    antagonist) for the treatment of HIV; and an A2a Adenosine
    receptor antagonist for the treatment of Parkinson s
    disease. Of these products, two are in Phase III clinical
    testing phase: thrombin receptor antagonist, and vicriviroc.
    Significant expenditures would be required to progress these
    through development, due to the large number of patients
    necessary for Phase III trials.

Research and development expenses are expected to continue to
    increase over the next several years. The primary reason is that
    Schering-Plough s pipeline is larger because the new
    management team has focused on making research and development
    more productive and because additional pipeline projects were
    added in the OBS acquisition. Other reasons include the need for
    larger clinical trials, more frequent clinical trials and longer
    clinical trials in the current global regulatory environment.

Research and development activities typically continue after a
    product has been marketed. One reason is to learn of new
    indications for the product. Another reason is to respond to any
    safety or effectiveness benefits or risks that may become known
    as more people use a product for a longer period of time.

Patents,
    Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property Rights  

Overview   

Intellectual property protection is critical to
    Schering-Plough s ability to successfully commercialize its
    product innovations. Schering-Plough owns, has applied for, or
    has licensed rights to, a large number of patents, both in the
    U.S. and in other countries, relating to compounds,
    formulations and uses, and manufacturing processes. There is no
    assurance that the patents Schering-Plough is seeking will be
    granted or that the patents Schering-Plough has been granted
    would be found valid if challenged. Moreover, patents relating
    to particular formulations, uses, or processes do not preclude
    other manufacturers from employing alternative processes or from
    marketing alternative formulations or uses that might
    successfully compete with Schering-Plough s patented
    products.

Outside the U.S., the standard of intellectual property
    protection for pharmaceuticals varies widely. While many
    countries have reasonably strong patent laws, other countries
    currently provide little or no effective protection for
    inventions or other intellectual property rights. Under the
    Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Agreement (TRIPs)
    administered by the World Trade Organization (WTO), more than
    140 countries have now agreed to provide non-discriminatory
    protection for most pharmaceutical inventions and to assure that
    adequate and effective rights are available to all patent
    owners. It is possible that changes to this agreement will be
    made in the future that will diminish or further delay its
    implementation in developing countries. It is too soon to assess
    how much, if at all, Schering-Plough will be impacted
    commercially from these changes.

When a product patent expires, the patent holder often loses
    effective market exclusivity for the product. This can result in
    a rapid, sharp and material decline in sales of the formerly
    patented product, particularly in the U.S. However, in some
    cases the innovator company can obtain additional commercial
    benefits through manufacturing trade secrets; later-expiring
    patents on processes, uses, or formulations; trademark use; or
    exclusivity that may be available under pharmaceutical
    regulatory laws.

Schering-Plough s
    Intellectual Property Portfolio   

Patent protection for certain Schering-Plough compounds,
    formulations, processes and uses are important to
    Schering-Plough s business and financial results. For many
    of Schering-Plough s products, in addition to patents on
    the compound, Schering-Plough holds other patents on
    manufacturing processes, formulations, or uses that may extend
    exclusivity beyond the expiration of the compound patent.

10

Table of Contents   

Schering-Plough s subsidiaries own (or have licensed rights
    under) a number of patents and patent applications, both in the
    U.S. and abroad. Patents and patent applications relating
    to Schering-Plough s significant products, including,
    without limitation, VYTORIN, ZETIA, REMICADE, NASONEX,
    FOLLISTIM/PUREGON, NUVARING, TEMODAR, PEGINTRON and CLARINEX,
    are of material importance to Schering-Plough.

Worldwide, Schering-Plough sells all major products under
    trademarks that also are material in the aggregate to its
    business and financial results. Trademark protection varies
    throughout the world, with protection continuing in some
    countries as long as the mark is used and in other countries as
    long as it is registered. Registrations are normally for fixed
    but renewable terms.

Patent
    Challenges Under the Hatch-Waxman Act   

The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984, commonly known as Hatch-Waxman, made a complex set of
    changes to both patent and new drug approval laws in the
    U.S. Before Hatch-Waxman, no drug could be approved without
    providing the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
    complete safety and efficacy studies, known as a complete New
    Drug Application (NDA). Hatch-Waxman authorized the FDA to
    approve generic versions of innovative medicines without such
    information upon the filing of an Abbreviated New Drug
    Application (ANDA). In an ANDA, the generic manufacturer must
    demonstrate only bioequivalence between the generic version and
    the NDA-approved drug   not safety and efficacy.
    Hatch-Waxman provides for limited patent term restoration to
    partially make up for patent term lost during the time an
    NDA-approved drug is in regulatory review. NDA-approved drugs
    also receive a limited period of data exclusivity which prevents
    the approval of ANDA applications for specific time periods
    after approval of the NDA-approved drug.

Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an
    ANDA until after the innovator s patents expire. However, a
    generic manufacturer may file an ANDA seeking approval after the
    expiration of the applicable data exclusivity, and alleging that
    one or more of the patents listed in the innovator s NDA
    are invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known
    as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator must then
    file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its
    patents. If one or more of the NDA-listed patents are
    successfully challenged, the first filer of a Paragraph IV
    certification may be entitled to a
     180-day 
    period of market exclusivity over all other generic
    manufacturers. In recent years, generic manufacturers have used
    Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge
    patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is
    anticipated that this trend will continue.

Schering-Plough s 10-K s and 10-Q s include a
    listing of Hatch-Waxman Act challenges to its patents in the
     Legal Proceedings  section.

Marketing
    Activities and Competition  

Schering-Plough, through its trained professional sales
    representatives, introduces and makes known its prescription
    drugs to physicians, pharmacists, hospitals, managed care
    organizations and buying groups. Schering-Plough sells
    prescription drugs to hospitals, certain managed care
    organizations, wholesale distributors and retail pharmacists.
    Schering-Plough also introduces and makes known its prescription
    products through journal advertising, direct mail advertising,
    the distribution of samples to physicians and through
    television, radio, Internet, print and other advertising media.

Schering-Plough, through its trained professional sales
    representatives, promotes its animal health products to
    veterinarians, distributors and animal producers.

Schering-Plough sells over-the-counter (OTC), foot care and sun
    care products through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and
    mass merchandiser outlets. Schering-Plough promotes directly to
    the consumer through television, radio, Internet, print and
    other advertising media.

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and includes
    other large companies, some significantly larger than
    Schering-Plough, with substantial resources for research,
    product development, advertising, promotion and field selling
    support.

11

Table of Contents   

There are numerous domestic and international competitors in
    this industry. Some of the principal competitive techniques used
    by Schering-Plough for its products include research and
    development of new and improved products, varied dosage forms
    and strengths and switching prescription products to
    non-prescription status. In the U.S., many of
    Schering-Plough s products are subject to increasingly
    competitive pricing as managed care groups, institutions,
    federal and state government entities and agencies and buying
    groups seek price discounts and rebates. Governmental,
    third-party payers, practices of U.S. pharmacists and other
    pressures toward the dispensing of generic products may
    significantly reduce the sales of certain products when they, or
    competing products in the same therapeutic category, are no
    longer protected by patents or exclusivity available under
    pharmaceutical regulatory laws.

Schering-Plough operates primarily in the prescription
    pharmaceutical marketplace. However, where appropriate,
    Schering-Plough seeks regulatory approval to switch prescription
    products to over-the-counter status as a means of extending a
    product s life cycle. In this way, the OTC marketplace is
    another means of maximizing the return on investments in
    discovery and development.

Government
    Regulation  

Each of Schering-Plough s major business segments is
    subject to significant regulation in multiple jurisdictions.
    This section describes the general regulatory framework.
    Additional information about the cost of regulatory compliance
    and specific impacts on Schering-Plough s business and
    financial condition are described under the heading
     Regulatory And Competitive Environment In Which
    Schering-Plough Operates  in Management s Discussion
    and Analysis later in this
     10-K. 
    Additional information about other regulatory matters can be
    found in Note 20,  Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
    Matters,  under Item 8,  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data. 

In the prescription drug segment, regulations apply at all
    phases of the business, including:

regulatory requirements to conduct, and standards for, clinical
    trials (for example, requiring the use of Good Clinical
    Practices or GCPs), which apply at the research and development
    stage;

regulatory requirements to conduct, and standards for,
    post-approval clinical trials;

required regulatory approval to begin marketing a new drug or to
    market an existing drug product for new indications;

regulations prescribing the manner in which drugs are
    manufactured, packaged, labeled, advertised, marketed and
    distributed;

regulations impacting the pricing of drugs;

regulatory requirements to assess and report adverse impacts and
    side effects of drugs used in clinical trials, as well as
    marketed drugs, called  pharmacovigilance;  and

the ability of regulatory authorities to remove a product from
    the market or recall certain batches of products.

In the U.S., the national regulation of all phases of the
    prescription drug business except pricing is centralized at the
    Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA is responsible for
    protecting the U.S. public health by assuring the safety,
    efficacy, and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological
    products and medical devices. Generally, there is free market
    pricing in the U.S., although the Centers for Medicare and
    Medicaid Services (CMS) and Medicare Part B and D include
    provisions about pricing drugs for the elderly, disabled and
    indigent who receive federal prescription benefits.
    Schering-Plough is also committed to complying with voluntary
    best practices of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
    of America (PhRMA), a trade industry group of which it is a
    member, regarding marketing and advertising practices.

In the EU, including Schering-Plough s key markets in the
    United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy, there is regulation
    at the local country level and additional regulation at the EU
    level, through the European Medicines Agency (EMEA).
    Pharmaceutical products are regulated at both of these levels
    through various national, mutual recognition or centralized
    regulatory procedures. The EMEA coordinates the evaluation and

12

Table of Contents   

supervision of medicinal products throughout the EU. There is no
    pan-EU market pricing system; however, individual member states
    have various systems/agencies that regulate price at a local
    level.

In Japan, there is regulation through the Pharmaceuticals and
    Medical Device Agency (PMDA). The PMDA regulates pharmaceuticals
    and medical devices from development through post-marketing use.
    The Japanese government regulates the pricing/reimbursement of
    pharmaceutical products in Japan through a complicated pricing
    process that includes benchmarks with prices in other western
    countries such as the United States, Canada and select EU
    countries.

As all of the major countries have some influence over pricing,
    even with the CMS in the United States, there is increasing
    pressure on the pharmaceutical industry to bring products to
    market that provide differentiation versus existing products.
    This can lead to more expensive and scientifically challenging
    clinical trials in order to generate this type of data for new
    products versus marketed comparators.

Raw
    Materials  

Raw materials essential to Schering-Plough s operations are
    available in adequate quantities from a number of potential
    suppliers. Energy is expected to be available to Schering-Plough
    in sufficient quantities to meet its operating requirements.

Seasonality  

Certain of Schering-Plough s products, particularly the
    respiratory and sun care products, are seasonal in nature.
    Seasonal patterns do not have a pronounced effect on the
    consolidated operations of Schering-Plough.

Environment  

To date, compliance with federal, state and local laws regarding
    discharge of materials into the environment, or protection of
    the environment, have not had a material effect on
    Schering-Plough s operations or financial position.

Employees  

At December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough employed
    approximately 55,000 people worldwide.

Available
    Information  

Schering-Plough s
     10-Ks, 
     10-Qs, 
     8-Ks  and
    amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to
    the SEC are available free of charge on Schering-Plough s
    website as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials
    are electronically filed with the SEC. Schering-Plough s
    internet address is www.schering-plough.com. Since
    Schering-Plough began this practice in the third quarter of
    2002, each such report has been available on
    Schering-Plough s website within 24 hours of filing.
    Reports filed by Schering-Plough with the SEC may be read and
    copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on
    the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by
    calling the SEC at
     1-800-SEC-0330. 
    The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxies and information statements and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Schering-Plough s future operating results and cash flows
    may differ materially from the results described in this
     10-K  due to
    risks and uncertainties related to Schering-Plough s
    business, including those discussed below. In addition, these
    factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those implied by
    forward-looking statements contained in this report.

13

Table of Contents   

Key
    Schering-Plough products generate a significant amount of
    Schering-Plough s profits and cash flows, and any events
    that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could
    have a material and negative impact on results of operations and
    cash flows.   

Schering-Plough s ability to generate profits and operating
    cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of
    Schering-Plough s cholesterol franchise, consisting of
    VYTORIN and ZETIA. In addition, other key products such as
    REMICADE, NASONEX, PEGINTRON, TEMODAR, CLARINEX, and AVELOX
    account for a material portion of revenues. As a result of
    Schering-Plough s dependence on key products, any events
    that adversely affects the markets for these products could have
    a significant impact on results of operations. These events
    include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated
    with manufacturing, generic or OTC availability of
    Schering-Plough s product or a competitive product, the
    discovery of previously unknown side effects, increased
    competition from the introduction of new, more effective
    treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the
    product for any reason.

For example, the profitability of Schering-Plough s
    cholesterol franchise may be adversely affected by competition
    from multiple generic cholesterol products. The FDA has held a
    public meeting to solicit comment on making certain prescription
    drugs available  behind-the-counter  without a
    prescription and continues to study this scenario. Although the
    FDA did not indicate what drugs might be included this category,
    if the FDA approved behind-the-counter sales of products that
    compete with products of Schering-Plough or the
    Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture, such
    competition could have an adverse result on sales and
    profitability.

There
    is a high risk that funds invested in research will not generate
    financial returns because the development of novel drugs
    requires significant expenditures with a low probability of
    success.   

There is a high rate of failure inherent in the research to
    develop new drugs to treat diseases. As a result, there is a
    high risk that funds invested in research programs will not
    generate financial returns. This risk profile is compounded by
    the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. To
    bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to
    market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any
    point in the process, including later in the process after
    significant funds have been invested.

Schering-Plough s
    success is dependent on the successful development and marketing
    of new products, which are subject to substantial
    risks.   

Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach
    market for numerous reasons, including the following:

findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of
    competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or
    pre-clinical testing;

failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including
    delays in the approval of new products and new indications;

lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other
    factors; and

preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of
    others.

Intellectual
    property protection for innovation is an important contributor
    to Schering-Plough s profitability. Generic forms of
    Schering-Plough s products may be introduced to the market
    as a result of the expiration of patents covering
    Schering-Plough s products, a successful challenge to
    Schering-Plough s patents, or the at-risk launch of a
    generic version of a Schering-Plough product, which may have a
    material and negative effect on results of
    operations.   

Intellectual property protection is critical to
    Schering-Plough s ability to successfully commercialize its
    products. U.S. patents relating to Schering-Plough s
    significant products are of material importance to
    Schering-Plough. Upon the expiration or the successful challenge
    of Schering-Plough s patents covering a

14

Table of Contents   

product, competitors may introduce lower-priced generic or
    similar branded versions of that product, which may include
    Schering-Plough s well-established products.

A generic manufacturer may file an Abbreviated New Drug
    Application seeking approval after the expiration of the
    applicable data exclusivity and alleging that one or more of the
    patents listed in the innovator s New Drug Application are
    invalid, not infringed or unenforceable. This allegation is
    commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The
    innovator then has the ability to file suit against the generic
    manufacturer to enforce its patents. Generic manufacturers have
    used Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge
    patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and it is
    anticipated that this trend will continue. In recent years, some
    generic manufacturers have launched generic versions of products
    before the ultimate resolution of patent litigation (commonly
    known as  at-risk  product launches). Generic entry
    may result in the loss of a significant portion of sales or
    downward pressures on the prices at which Schering-Plough offers
    formerly patented products. Please refer to  Legal
    Proceedings  in Schering-Plough s
     10-K  and
     10-Qs  for
    descriptions of pending intellectual property litigation.

Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that
    compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of
    national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales
    and profits from those regions and negatively affect
    Schering-Plough s results of operations. Further, recent
    court decisions relating to other companies  patents in the
    U.S., potential U.S. legislation relating to patent reform,
    as well as regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion
    of intellectual property protection.

Patent
    disputes can be costly to prosecute and defend and adverse
    judgments could result in damage awards, increased royalties and
    other similar payments and decreased sales.   

Patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes in
    the pharmaceutical industry are not unusual. An adverse result
    in a patent dispute involving Schering-Plough s patents, or
    the patents of its collaborators, may lead to a determination by
    a court that the patent is not infringed, invalid,
     and/or 
    unenforceable. Such an adverse determination could lead to a
    loss of market exclusivity. An adverse result in a patent
    dispute involving patents held by a third party may lead to a
    determination by a court that the patent is infringed, valid,
    and enforceable. Such an adverse determination may preclude the
    commercialization of Schering-Plough s products through
    injunctive relief,
     and/or  may
    lead to significant financial damages for past and ongoing
    infringement. Due to the uncertainty surrounding patent
    litigation, parties may settle patent disputes by obtaining a
    license under mutually agreeable terms in order to decrease risk
    of an interruption in manufacturing
     and/or 
    marketing of its products.

The potential for litigation regarding Schering-Plough s
    intellectual property rights always exists and may be initiated
    by third parties attempting to abridge Schering-Plough s
    rights. Even if Schering-Plough is ultimately successful in a
    particular dispute, Schering-Plough may incur substantial costs
    in defending its patents and other intellectual property rights.
    See  Patent Challenges Under the Hatch-Waxman Act  in
    Item 3,  Legal Proceedings  for a list of current
    Paragraph IV certifications for Schering-Plough products.

Multi-jurisdictional
    regulations, including those establishing Schering-Plough s
    ability to price products, may negatively affect
    Schering-Plough s sales and profit margins.   

Schering-Plough faces increased pricing pressure globally from
    managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies
    and programs that could negatively affect Schering-Plough s
    sales and profit margins. For example, in the U.S., the Medicare
    Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
    contains a prescription drug benefit for individuals who are
    eligible for Medicare. The prescription drug benefit became
    effective on January 1, 2006 and has resulted in increased
    use of generics and increased purchasing power of those
    negotiating on behalf of Medicare recipients.

In addition to legislation concerning price controls, other
    trends could affect Schering-Plough s business. These
    trends include legislative or regulatory action relating to
    pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, health care reform
    initiatives and drug importation legislation and involuntary
    approval of medicines for OTC use. These trends also include
    non-governmental initiatives and practices such as consolidation
    among customers, managed care practices and health care costs
    containment. Increasingly, market approval,

15

Table of Contents   

reimbursement of products, prescribers  practices and
    policies of third party payors may be influenced by health
    technology assessments by the National Institute for Health and
    Clinical Excellence in the UK and other such organizations.

In the U.S., as a result of the government s efforts to
    reduce Medicaid expenses, managed care organizations continue to
    grow in influence, and Schering-Plough faces increased pricing
    pressure as managed care organizations continue to seek price
    discounts with respect to Schering-Plough s products.

In other countries, many governmental agencies strictly control,
    directly or indirectly, the prices at which pharmaceutical
    products are sold. In these markets, cost control methods
    including restrictions on physician prescription levels and
    patient reimbursements; emphasis on greater use of generic
    drugs; and across-the-board price cuts may decrease revenues
    internationally.

Through
    the acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough acquired marketed
    products and pipeline projects in therapeutic areas not
    currently covered by Schering-Plough s existing marketed
    products portfolio and pipeline projects, including women s
    health and fertility, anesthesia, and neuroscience, each of
    which carry unique risks and uncertainties which could have a
    negative impact on future results of operations.   

With its acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough acquired products
    in additional therapeutic areas. Each therapeutic area presents
    a different risk profile, including different benefits and
    safety issues that must be balanced by Schering-Plough and the
    regulators as various R D and marketing decisions are made;
    unique product liability risks; different patient and prescriber
    priorities; and different societal pressures. While adding new
    therapeutic areas may strengthen the business by increasing
    sales and profits; making the combined company more relevant to
    patients and prescribers; and diversifying enterprise risk
    across more areas, such positives may not outweigh the
    additional risk in a particular therapeutic area or could result
    in unanticipated costs that could be material.

Market
    forces continue to evolve and can impact Schering-Plough s
    ability to sell products or the price Schering-Plough can charge
    for products.   

A number of intermediaries are involved between drug
    manufacturers, such as Schering-Plough, and patients who use the
    drugs. These intermediaries impact the patient s ability,
    and their prescribers  ability, to choose and pay for a
    particular drug. These intermediaries include health care
    providers, such as hospitals and clinics; payors and their
    representatives, such as employers, insurers, managed care
    organizations and governments; and others in the supply chain,
    such as pharmacists and wholesalers. Examples include: payors
    that require a patient to first fail on a generic drug before
    reimbursing for a more effective, branded product that is more
    expensive; hospitals that stock and administer only a generic
    product to in-patients; managed care organizations that may
    penalize doctors who prescribe outside approved formularies
    which may not include branded products when a generic is
    available; and pharmacists who receive larger revenues when they
    dispense a generic drug over a branded drug. Further, the
    intermediaries are not required to routinely provide transparent
    data to patients comparing the effectiveness of generic and
    branded products or to disclose their own economic benefits that
    are tied to steering patients toward, or requiring patients to
    use, generic products rather than branded products.

Government
    investigations against Schering-Plough could lead to the
    commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the
    imposition of substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or
    administrative remedies, including exclusion from government
    reimbursement programs, which could give rise to other
    investigations or litigation by government entities or private
    parties.   

Schering-Plough cannot predict whether future or pending
    investigations to which it may become subject would lead to a
    judgment or settlement involving a significant monetary award or
    restrictions on its operations.

The pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements and
    related business practices of Schering-Plough and other
    participants in the health care industry are under increasing
    scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative,
    prosecutorial and administrative entities. These entities
    include the Department of

16

Table of Contents   

Justice and its U.S. Attorney s Offices, the Office of
    Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and various
    state Attorneys General offices. Many of the health care laws
    under which certain of these governmental entities operate,
    including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and
    statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed
    broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to
    exercise significant discretion. In the event that any of those
    governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one
    or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings
    which, if resolved unfavorably, could subject Schering-Plough to
    substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative
    remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement
    programs. In addition, an adverse outcome to a government
    investigation could prompt other government entities to commence
    investigations of Schering-Plough or cause those entities or
    private parties to bring civil claims against it.
    Schering-Plough also cannot predict whether any investigations
    will affect its marketing practices or sales. Any such result
    could have a material adverse impact on Schering-Plough s
    results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or its
    business.

Congress and certain states have initiated investigations into
    the timing and disclosure of the ENHANCE clinical trial and
    related events, as well as the timing of certain stock sales by
    one executive officer, Carrie Cox.

Regardless of the merits or outcomes of any investigation,
    government investigations are costly, divert management s
    attention from Schering-Plough s business and may result in
    substantial damage to Schering-Plough s reputation.

There
    are other legal matters in which adverse outcomes could
    negatively affect Schering-Plough s business.   

Unfavorable outcomes in other pending litigation matters, or in
    future litigation, including litigation concerning product
    pricing, securities law violations, product liability claims,
    ERISA matters, patent and intellectual property disputes, and
    antitrust matters could preclude the commercialization of
    products, negatively affect the profitability of existing
    products and could subject Schering-Plough to substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including
    exclusion from government reimbursement programs. Any such
    result could materially and adversely affect
    Schering-Plough s results of operations, cash flows,
    financial condition, or its business.

Please refer to  Legal Proceedings  in Item 3 of
    this  10-K 
    for descriptions of significant pending litigation.

Issues
    concerning the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Joint
    Venture s ENHANCE clinical trial could have a material
    adverse effect on the joint venture s sales of VYTORIN and
    ZETIA, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on
    Schering-Plough s financial condition.   

See Item 3,  Legal Proceedings   
     ENHANCE Matter  for background information about the
    Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol join venture s ENHANCE
    clinical trial and related matters.

These issues concerning the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
    joint venture s ENHANCE clinical trial could have a
    material adverse effect on the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
    joint venture s sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA .  There
    was significant negative media surrounding the release of the
    top-line results. To date in 2008, IMS data shows that
    prescriptions for VYTORIN and ZETIA have declined. If sales of
    such products continue to trend down further or remain at
    current levels for a prolonged period, Schering-Plough s
    business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position
    and prospects could also be materially adversely affected. In
    addition, unfavorable outcomes resulting from the government
    investigations or the litigation concerning the sale and
    promotion of these products could have a material adverse effect
    on Schering-Plough s financial position, liquidity and
    results of operations.

17

Table of Contents   

Schering-Plough
    is subject to governmental regulations, and the failure to
    comply with, as well as the costs of compliance with, these
    regulations may adversely affect Schering-Plough s
    financial position and results of operations.   

Schering-Plough s manufacturing facilities and
    clinical/research practices must meet stringent regulatory
    standards and are subject to regular inspections. The cost of
    regulatory compliance, including that associated with compliance
    failures, can materially affect Schering-Plough s financial
    position, cash flows and results of operations. Failure to
    comply with regulations, which include pharmacovigilance
    reporting requirements and standards relating to clinical,
    laboratory and manufacturing practices, can result in delays in
    the approval of drugs, seizure or recalls of drugs, suspension
    or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and
    sale of drugs, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions.

Schering-Plough also is subject to other regulations, including
    environmental, health and safety, and labor regulations.

Developments
    following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of
    Schering-Plough s products.   

Even after a product reaches market, certain developments
    following regulatory approval, including results in
    post-marketing Phase IV trials, may decrease demand for
    Schering-Plough s products, including the following:

the re-review of products that are already marketed;

new scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;

the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are
    already marketed;

uncertainties concerning safety labeling changes; and

greater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.

In the past several years, clinical trials and post-marketing
    surveillance of certain marketed drugs of competitors within the
    industry have raised safety concerns that have led to recalls,
    withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. These
    situations also have raised concerns among some prescribers and
    patients relating to the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical
    products in general, which have negatively affected the sales of
    such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes
    of clinical trials have lead to increase volatility in market
    reaction.

In addition, following the wake of recent product withdrawals of
    other companies and other significant safety issues, health
    authorities such as the FDA, the European Medicines Agency and
    the Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency have increased
    their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of
    drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become more
    cautious when making decisions about approvability of new
    products or indications and are re-reviewing select products
    that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties
    in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory
    scrutiny, especially in the U.S., on advertising and promotion
    and in particular, direct-to-consumer advertising.

If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is
    an increase in the prevalence of negative publicity regarding
    known side effects of any of Schering-Plough s products, it
    could significantly reduce demand for the product or may require
    Schering-Plough to remove the product from the market. Further,
    in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies
    operate, Schering-Plough is at risk for product liability claims
    for its products.

New
    products and technological advances developed by
    Schering-Plough s competitors may negatively affect
    sales.   

Schering-Plough operates in a highly competitive industry.
    Schering-Plough competes with a large number of multinational
    pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and generic
    pharmaceutical companies. Many of Schering-Plough s
    competitors have been conducting research and development in
    areas served both by Schering-Plough s current products and
    by those products Schering-Plough is in the process of

18

Table of Contents   

developing. Competitive developments that may impact
    Schering-Plough include technological advances by, patents
    granted to, and new products developed by competitors or new and
    existing generic, prescription
     and/or  OTC
    products that compete with products of Schering-Plough or the
    Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture. In addition, it
    is possible that doctors, patients and providers may favor those
    products offered by competitors due to safety, efficacy, pricing
    or reimbursement characteristics, and as a result
    Schering-Plough will be unable to maintain its sales for such
    products.

Competition
    from third parties may make it difficult for Schering-Plough to
    acquire or license new products or product candidates
    (regardless of stage of development) or to enter into such
    transactions on terms that permit Schering-Plough to generate a
    positive financial impact.   

Schering-Plough depends on acquisition and in-licensing
    arrangements as a source for new products. Opportunities for
    obtaining or licensing new products are limited, however, and
    securing rights to them typically requires substantial amounts
    of funding or substantial resource commitments. Schering-Plough
    competes for these opportunities against many other companies
    and third parties that have greater financial resources and
    greater ability to make other resource commitments.
    Schering-Plough may not be able to acquire or license new
    products, which could adversely impact Schering-Plough and its
    prospects. Schering-Plough may also have difficulty acquiring or
    licensing new products on acceptable terms. To secure rights to
    new products, Schering-Plough may have to make substantial
    financial or other resource commitments that could limit its
    ability to produce a positive financial impact from such
    transactions.

Schering-Plough
    relies on third-party relationships for its key products, and
    the conduct and changing circumstances of such third parties may
    adversely impact the business.   

Schering-Plough has several relationships with third parties on
    which Schering-Plough depends for many of its key products. Very
    often these third parties compete with Schering-Plough or have
    interests that are not aligned with the interests of
    Schering-Plough. Notwithstanding any contracts Schering-Plough
    has with these third parties, Schering-Plough may not be able to
    control or influence the conduct of these parties, or the
    circumstances that affect them, either of which could adversely
    impact Schering-Plough.

The relationships are long-standing and, as the third
    party s work and Schering-Plough s work evolves,
    priorities and alignments also change. At times new issues
    develop that were not anticipated at the time contracts were
    negotiated. These new issues, and related uncertainties in the
    contracts, also can adversely impact Schering-Plough.

Schering-Plough s
    global operations expose Schering-Plough to additional risks,
    and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on
    results of operations.   

A majority of Schering-Plough s operations are outside the
    U.S. With the acquisition of OBS in late 2007,
    Schering-Plough s global operations in Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals and Animal Health increased. Acquisitions, such
    as the recently completed purchase of OBS, further expanded the
    size, scale and scope of its global operations. Risks inherent
    in conducting a global business include:

changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and
    pricing restrictions in key markets;

multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict
    Schering-Plough s ability to manufacture and sell its
    products in key markets;

trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;

diminished protection of intellectual property in some
    countries; and

possible nationalization and expropriation.

In addition, there may be changes to Schering-Plough s
    business and political position if there is instability,
    disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region,
    regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil
    insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made
    disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or
    disease.

19

Table of Contents   

The
    integration of the businesses of Schering-Plough and OBS to
    create a combined company is a complex process and may be
    subject to unforeseen developments, which could impact
    anticipated cost savings from synergies, expected accretion to
    earnings and results of future operations.   

As the two companies are combined, the workforces of
    Schering-Plough and OBS will continue to face uncertainties
    until the completion of the integration phase. Although
    substantial efforts are being made to complete the integration
    phase as quickly as possible, it is difficult to predict how
    long the integration phase will last.

The workforces of both companies are learning to use new
    processes as work is integrated and streamlined. Further, for
    those employees of the new combined company who have not in the
    past worked for a
     U.S.-based 
    global company, the applicable regulatory requirements are
    different in a number of respects. While substantial efforts are
    being made to facilitate smooth execution of integration
    including thorough training and transparent and motivational
    employee communications   there may be an increased
    risk of slower execution of various work processes, repeated
    execution to achieve quality standards and reputational harm in
    the event of a compliance failure with new and complex
    regulatory requirements, even if such a failure were
    inadvertent. Any such events could have an adverse impact on
    anticipated cost savings from synergies, anticipated accretion
    to earnings from the transaction and the results of future
    operations.

The
    acquisition of OBS expanded Schering-Plough s animal health
    business worldwide, which increases the risk that negative
    events in the animal health industry could have a negative
    impact on future results of operations.   

Through the acquisition of OBS  animal health businesses,
    Schering-Plough s global animal health business is now a
    more significant business segment. The combined company s
    future sales of key animal health products could be adversely
    impacted by a number of risk factors including certain that are
    specific to the animal health business. For example, the
    outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as Bovine
    Spongiform Encephalopathy ( BSE ) or mad cow disease,
    could lead to their widespread death and precautionary
    destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for
    animals, which could adversely impact Schering-Plough s
    results of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly
    contagious diseases near Schering-Plough s main production
    sites could require Schering-Plough to immediately halt
    production of vaccines at such sites or force Schering-Plough to
    incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or
    vaccines elsewhere. As the animal health segment of
    Schering-Plough s business becomes more significant, the
    impact of any such events on future results of operations would
    also become more significant.

The
    acquisition of OBS increased Schering-Plough s biologics
    human and animal health product offerings, including animal
    health vaccines. Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties,
    which could have a negative impact on future results of
    operations.   

The successful development, testing, manufacturing and
    commercialization of biologics, particularly human and animal
    health vaccines, is a long, expensive and uncertain process.
    There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics,
    including:

There may be limited access to and supply of normal and diseased
    tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains
    and other biological materials. In addition, government
    regulations in multiple jurisdictions such as the U.S. and
    European states within the EU, could result in restricted access
    to, or transport or use of, such materials. If Schering-Plough
    loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if
    tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials,
    Schering-Plough may not be able to conduct research activities
    as planned and may incur additional development costs.

The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics are
    subject to regulation by the FDA, the European Medicines Agency
    and other regulatory bodies. These regulations are often more
    complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other
    pharmaceutical products. For example, in the U.S., a Biologics
    License Application, including both preclinical and clinical
    trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing
    procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates and FDA
    approval for the release of each manufactured lot.

20

Table of Contents   

Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is
    sometimes complex and may require the use of innovative
    technologies to handle living micro-organisms. Manufacturing
    biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and
    validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance
    and quality control procedures are necessary. Slight deviations
    anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling,
    labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control
    and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or
    spoilage.

Biologics are frequently costly to manufacture because
    production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant
    material, and most biologics cannot be made synthetically. In
    particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be
    difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines.

The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to
    allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions,
    or closure of product facilities due to possible contamination.
    Any of these events could result in substantial costs.

Schering-Plough
    is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates and interest rates.   

Schering-Plough operates in multiple jurisdictions and, as such,
    virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local
    jurisdiction. Additionally, Schering-Plough has entered and will
    enter into acquisition, licensing, borrowings or other financial
    transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate
    exposure. Since Schering-Plough cannot, with certainty, foresee
    and mitigate against such adverse fluctuations, fluctuations in
    currency exchange rates and interest rates could negatively
    affect Schering-Plough s results of operations
     and/or  cash
    flows.

In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market
    fluctuations, Schering-Plough will from time to time enter into
    hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency
    options and interest rate swaps, limit some of the exposure to
    exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to
    mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful.

Insurance
    coverage for product liability may be limited, cost prohibitive
    or unavailable.   

Schering-Plough maintains insurance coverage with such
    deductibles and self-insurance to reflect market conditions
    (including cost and availability) existing at the time it is
    written, and the relationship of insurance coverage to
    self-insurance varies accordingly. For certain products,
    third-party insurance may be cost prohibitive, available on
    limited terms or unavailable.

Schering-Plough
    is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in
    additional liabilities that may affect results of
    operations.   

Schering-Plough is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in
    its jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required for
    determining Schering-Plough s tax liabilities, and
    Schering-Plough s tax returns are periodically examined by
    various tax authorities. Schering-Plough s
     1997-2007 
    tax returns remain open for examination by the IRS.
    Schering-Plough may be challenged by the IRS and other tax
    authorities on positions it has taken in its income tax returns.
    Although Schering-Plough believes that its accrual for tax
    contingencies is adequate for all open years, based on past
    experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about
    potential actions by tax authorities, due to the complexity of
    tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters
    may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued.

With the acquisition of OBS s Organon (human
    pharmaceutical) and Intervet (animal health) businesses, the
    main tax risks are correspondingly centered in the Netherlands,
    where management, intellectual property, and beneficial rights
    as well as product liability have been predominantly centered.
    The tax position for both Organon and Intervet in the
    Netherlands has been closed through 2005.

In addition, Schering-Plough may be impacted by changes in tax
    laws including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to
    the remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws and revised tax
    law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions.

21

Table of Contents   

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.      

Properties   

Schering-Plough s corporate and global human pharmaceutical
    headquarters are located in Kenilworth, New Jersey. The Animal
    Health global headquarters is located in Boxmeer, Netherlands.
    Principal U.S. research facilities are located in
    Kenilworth, Union and Summit, New Jersey; Palo Alto, California;
    and Nebraska (Animal Health). Principal research facilities
    outside the U.S. are located in the Netherlands and
    Scotland. Principal manufacturing facilities are as follows:

Location 

Product Type 

Belgium

Pharmaceuticals

Brazil

Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health

Cleveland, Tennessee, U.S.A. 

Consumer Products

France

Pharmaceuticals

Ireland

Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Products, Animal Health

Kenilworth, New Jersey, U.S.A. 

Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Products

Mexico

Pharmaceuticals

Millsboro, Delaware, U.S.A. 

Animal Health

Netherlands

Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health

Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A. 

Animal Health

Puerto Rico

Pharmaceuticals

Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, U.S.A. 

Pharmaceuticals

Singapore

Pharmaceuticals

Schering-Plough owns the majority of its properties. In general,
    the properties are adequately maintained and suitable for their
    purposes. As discussed in more detail in Part II of this
     10-K, 
    certain of Schering-Plough s manufacturing sites operate
    below capacity.

Schering-Plough is currently in the process of building a
    U.S. pharmaceutical sciences center in New Jersey. Capital
    expenditures of approximately $50 million and
    $40 million were made in 2007 and 2006, respectively,
    related to this center. Additional capital expenditures of
    approximately $175 million are expected over the next two
    years.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

Material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine
    litigation incidental to the business, to which Schering-Plough
    Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or to which any of their
    property is subject, are disclosed below.

Additional information on legal proceedings, including important
    financial information, can be found in the Litigation Charges
    discussion in Item 7,  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations,  and Note 3,  Special and Acquisition
    Related Charges and Manufacturing Streamlining,  and
    Note 20,  Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
    Matters,  contained in Item 8,  Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data. 

ENHANCE
    Matter   

Background.   The Merck/Schering-Plough
    cholesterol joint venture markets ZETIA and VYTORIN (a
    combination of Merck s Zocor (simvastatin) and
    Schering-Plough s Zetia (ezetimibe)).

The Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture s
    ENHANCE (Effect of Combination Ezetimibe and High-Dose
    Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process
    in Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia)
    clinical trial was a surrogate endpoint trial, conducted in
    720 patients with

22

Table of Contents   

Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia, a rare condition
    that affects approximately 0.2% of the population. The primary
    endpoint was the mean change in the intima-media thickness
    measured at three sites in the carotid arteries (the right and
    left common carotid, internal carotid and carotid bulb) between
    patients treated with ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg versus
    patients treated with simvastatin 80 mg alone over a
    two-year period. There was no statistically significant
    difference between the treatment groups for the primary endpoint
    and for each of the components of the primary endpoint,
    including the common carotid artery. Key secondary imaging
    endpoints also showed no statistical difference between
    treatment groups.

On January 14, 2008, the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
    joint venture announced the top-line results of the ENHANCE
    clinical trial. There will be fuller discussions of the results
    of the ENHANCE clinical trial in medical scientific forums, as
    is customary. A discussion is scheduled for the American College
    of Cardiology meeting on March 30, 2008.

Technical difficulties in analyzing sometimes fuzzy ultrasound
    images had consumed a long time period since the last patient
    was scanned in April 2006 until December 31, 2007, when
    data from ultrasound images were first unblinded to scientists
    of the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture. After
    analysis of the results the summary findings were released by
    the joint venture on January 14, 2008. In 2008, there has
    been media speculation about the length of time needed to
    analyze the ultrasound images and media confusion about the
    meaning of the trial results.

Medical experts and health advisory groups have long recognized
    high LDL cholesterol as a significant cardiovascular risk factor
    and recommended increasingly aggressive treatment of high
    cholesterol for certain patients. Lowering LDL cholesterol,
    along with healthy diet and lifestyle changes, remains the
    cornerstone of lipid treatment for patients at risk for heart
    disease.

Clinical studies prior to ENHANCE have demonstrated that VYTORIN
    lowered patients  LDL cholesterol more than rosuvastatin,
    atorvastatin and simvastatin at the doses studied and was able
    to get more patients to their LDL cholesterol goals (as defined
    by ATP III). The findings from the Merck/Schering-Plough
    cholesterol joint venture s ENHANCE clinical trial further
    confirmed VYTORIN s effectiveness, compared to simvastatin,
    at lowering LDL cholesterol. Specifically, there was a
    significant difference in low-density lipoprotein, or  LDL
    cholesterol lowering seen between the treatment
    groups   58% LDL cholesterol lowering at
    24 months on ezetimibe/simvastatin as compared to 41% at
    24 months on simvastatin alone.

The ENHANCE surrogate endpoint study was not powered nor
    designed to assess cardiovascular clinical event outcomes, such
    as the effectiveness of the drugs at lowering the risk of heart
    attack and stroke. The Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint
    venture is currently conducting the IMPROVE-IT trial, a large
    clinical trial comparing VYTORIN (ezetimibe/simvastatin) and
    simvastatin in more than 10,000 patients. The results of
    the IMPROVE-IT trial will compare the effectiveness of VYTORIN
    to simvastatin alone in reducing heart attacks
     and/or 
    strokes.

Schering-Plough s stock price declined significantly in
    early 2008, from $26.64 (closing price) on December 31,
    2007 to a 2008 low of $19.02 (closing price) on January 25,
    2008 to $21.97 (closing price)  on February 28, 2008, the
    day before this
     10-K  was
    filed.

Investigations.   Through the date of filing
    this  10-K, 
    Schering-Plough, the joint venture and/or its joint venture
    partner, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Merck ), have
    received:

several letters from Congress, including the House Committee on
    Energy and Commerce, the House Subcommittee on Oversight and
    Investigations, and the ranking minority member of the Senate
    Finance Committee, collectively seeking a combination of witness
    interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues
    related to the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint
    venture s ENHANCE clinical trial, the companies  sale
    and promotion of VYTORIN, as well as sales of stock by the

23

Table of Contents   

companies  corporate officers (including one executive of
    Schering-Plough who was named in one of the letters, Carrie Cox)
    since April 2006; and

several subpoenas from state officials (such as the State
    Attorney General or State Department of Justice) in several
    states, including Connecticut, New York and Oregon, seeking
    similar information and documents.

Schering-Plough is cooperating with these investigations and
    working with Merck to respond to the inquiries.

Litigation.   In addition, since mid-January
    2008, Schering-Plough has become aware of or been served with
    litigation, including civil class action lawsuits alleging
    common law and state consumer fraud claims in connection with
    Schering-Plough s sale and promotion of the
    Merck/Schering-Plough joint-venture products  VYTORIN and
    ZETIA; several putative shareholder securities class action
    lawsuits (where several officers are also named defendants)
    alleging false and misleading statements and omissions by
    Schering-Plough and its representatives related to the timing of
    disclosures concerning the ENHANCE results, allegedly in
    violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934; a Shareholder Derivative Action alleging
    that the Board of Directors breached its fiduciary obligations
    relating to the timing of the release of the ENHANCE results;
    and a letter on behalf of a single shareholder requesting that
    the Board of Directors investigate the allegations of the
    putative securities class actions and, if warranted, bring any
    appropriate legal action on behalf of Schering-Plough.

Schering-Plough is cooperating fully in the government
    investigations and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuits
    that have been filed relating to the ENHANCE study.

Patent
    Matters   

As described in  Patents, Trademarks, and Other
    Intellectual Property Rights  under Item 1, Business,
    of this
     10-K, 
    intellectual property protection is critical to
    Schering-Plough s ability to successfully commercialize its
    product innovations. The potential for litigation regarding
    Schering-Plough s intellectual property rights always
    exists and may be initiated by third parties attempting to
    abridge Schering-Plough s rights, as well as by
    Schering-Plough in protecting its rights. Patent matters
    described below have a potential material effect on
    Schering-Plough.

DR.   

SCHOLL S
    FREEZE AWAY  

On July 26, 2004, OraSure Technologies filed an action in
    the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania alleging patent infringement by Schering-Plough
    Healthcare Products by its sale of DR. SCHOLL S FREEZE AWAY
    wart removal product. This matter was settled with no material
    impact on Schering-Plough s financial statements and a
    stipulation dismissing the action was filed by the parties on
    February 15, 2008.

Patent
    Challenges Under the Hatch-Waxman Act  

While Schering-Plough does not currently believe that any
    pending Paragraph IV certification proceeding under the
    Hatch-Waxman Act is material, because there is frequently media
    and investor interest in such proceedings, Schering-Plough is
    listing the pending proceedings each quarter. Currently, the
    following are pending:

in July, 2007, Schering-Plough and its licensor, Cancer Research
    Technologies, Limited, filed a patent infringement action
    against companies seeking approval of a generic version of
    certain strengths of TEMODAR capsules;

in March 2007, Schering-Plough and an entity jointly owned with
    Merck filed a patent infringement action against companies
    seeking approval of a generic version of ZETIA; and

in September 2006 and dates thereafter, Schering-Plough filed
    patent infringement actions against companies seeking approval
    of generic versions of CLARINEX Tablets, CLARINEX Reditabs,
    CLARINEX D24, and CLARINEX D12.

24

Table of Contents   

AWP
    Litigation and Investigations   

Schering-Plough continues to respond to existing and new
    litigation by certain states and private payors and
    investigations by the Department of Health and Human Services,
    the Department of Justice and several states into industry and
    Schering-Plough practices regarding average wholesale price
    (AWP). Schering-Plough is cooperating with these investigations.

These litigations and investigations relate to whether the AWP
    used by pharmaceutical companies for certain drugs improperly
    exceeds the average prices paid by providers and, as a
    consequence, results in unlawful inflation of certain
    reimbursements for drugs by state programs and private payors
    that are based on AWP. The complaints allege violations of
    federal and state law, including fraud, Medicaid fraud and
    consumer protection violations, among other claims. In the
    majority of cases, the plaintiffs are seeking class
    certifications. In some cases, classes have been certified. The
    outcome of these litigations and investigations could include
    substantial damages, the imposition of substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.

Securities
    and Class Action Litigation   

Federal
    Securities Litigation  

Following Schering-Plough s announcement that the FDA had
    been conducting inspections of Schering-Plough s
    manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico and had
    issued reports citing deficiencies concerning compliance with
    current Good Manufacturing Practices, several lawsuits were
    filed against Schering-Plough and certain named officers. These
    lawsuits allege that the defendants violated the federal
    securities law by allegedly failing to disclose material
    information and making material misstatements. Specifically,
    they allege that Schering-Plough failed to disclose an alleged
    serious risk that a new drug application for CLARINEX would be
    delayed as a result of these manufacturing issues, and they
    allege that Schering-Plough failed to disclose the alleged depth
    and severity of its manufacturing issues. These complaints were
    consolidated into one action in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of New Jersey, and a consolidated amended complaint
    was filed on October 11, 2001, purporting to represent a
    class of shareholders who purchased shares of Schering-Plough
    stock from May 9, 2000 through February 15, 2001. The
    complaint seeks compensatory damages on behalf of the class. The
    Court certified the shareholder class on October 10, 2003.
    Notice of pendency of the class action was sent to members of
    that class in July 2007. Discovery has been completed, and
    motions for summary judgment have been briefed and are pending.

ERISA
    Litigation  

On March 31, 2003, Schering-Plough was served with a
    putative class action complaint filed in the U.S. District
    Court in New Jersey alleging that Schering-Plough, retired
    Chairman, CEO and President Richard Jay Kogan,
    Schering-Plough s Employee Savings Plan (Plan)
    administrator, several current and former directors, and certain
    corporate officers (Messrs. LaRosa and Moore) breached
    their fiduciary obligations to certain participants in the Plan.
    The complaint seeks damages in the amount of losses allegedly
    suffered by the Plan. The complaint was dismissed on
    June 29, 2004. The plaintiffs appealed. On August 19,
    2005 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
    reversed the dismissal by the District Court and the matter has
    been remanded back to the District Court for further proceedings.

K-DUR
    Antitrust Litigation  

Schering-Plough had settled patent litigation with Upsher-Smith,
    Inc. (Upsher-Smith) and ESI Lederle, Inc. (Lederle) relating to
    generic versions of K-DUR, Schering-Plough s long-acting
    potassium chloride product supplement used by cardiac patients,
    for which Lederle and Upsher Smith had filed Abbreviated New
    Drug Applications. Following the commencement of an FTC
    administrative proceeding alleging anti-competitive effects from
    those settlements (which has been resolved in
    Schering-Plough s favor), alleged class action suits were
    filed in federal and state courts on behalf of direct and
    indirect purchasers of K-DUR against Schering-Plough,
    Upsher-Smith and Lederle. These suits claim violations of
    federal and state antitrust laws, as

25

Table of Contents   

well as other state statutory and common law causes of action.
    These suits seek unspecified damages. Discovery is ongoing.

Third-party
    Payor Actions  

Several purported class action litigations have been filed
    following the announcement of the settlement of the
    Massachusetts Investigation. Plaintiffs in these actions seek
    damages on behalf of third-party payors resulting from the
    allegations of off-label promotion and improper payments to
    physicians that were at issue in the Massachusetts Investigation.

Tax
    Matters   

In October 2001, IRS auditors asserted that two interest rate
    swaps that Schering-Plough entered into with an unrelated party
    should be recharacterized as loans from affiliated companies,
    resulting in additional tax liability for the 1991 and 1992 tax
    years. In September 2004, Schering-Plough made payments to the
    IRS in the amount of $194 million for income tax and
    $279 million for interest. Schering-Plough filed refund
    claims for the tax and interest with the IRS in December 2004.
    Following the IRS s denial of Schering-Plough s claims
    for a refund, Schering-Plough filed suit in May 2005 in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey for
    refund of the full amount of the tax and interest. This refund
    litigation is currently being tried in Newark District court.
    Schering-Plough s tax reserves were adequate to cover the
    above-mentioned payments.

Pending
    Administrative Obligations   

In connection with the settlement of an investigation with the
    U.S. Department of Justice and the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania, Schering-Plough entered into a five-year corporate
    integrity agreement (CIA). The CIA was amended in August of 2006
    in connection with the settlement of the Massachusetts
    Investigation, commencing a new five-year term. Failure to
    comply with the obligations under the CIA could result in
    financial penalties.

Other
    Matters   

Products
    Liability  

Beginning in May of 2007, a number of complaints have been filed
    in various jurisdictions asserting claims against Organon USA,
    Inc., Organon Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.,
     and/or 
    Organon International ( Organon ) arising from
    Schering-Plough s marketing and sale of NUVARING, a
    combined hormonal contraceptive vaginal ring. The plaintiffs
    contend that Organon failed to adequately warn of the alleged
    increased risk of venous thromboembolism ( VTE ) posed
    by NUVARING,
     and/or 
    downplayed the risk of VTE. The plaintiffs seek damages, heart
    attacks and strokes. The majority of the cases are currently
    pending in the United States District Court for District of New
    Jersey. Other cases are pending in Wisconsin, Missouri, New York
    and Georgia.

French
    Matter  

Based on a complaint to the French competition authority from a
    competitor in France and pursuant to a court order, the French
    competition authority has obtained documents from a French
    subsidiary of Schering-Plough relating to SUBUTEX, one of the
    products that the subsidiary markets and sells. Any resolution
    of this matter adverse to the French subsidiary could result in
    the imposition of civil fines and injunctive or administrative
    remedies. On July 17, 2007, the Juge des Libert s et
    de la D tention ordered the annulment of the search and
    seizure on procedural grounds. On July 19, 2007, the French
    authority appealed the order to the French Supreme Court.

In April 2007, the competitor also requested interim relief, a
    portion of which was granted by the French competition authority
    in December 2007. The interim relief required
    Schering-Plough s French subsidiary to publish in two
    specialized newspapers information including that the generic
    has the same quantitative and qualitative composition and the
    same pharmaceutical form as, and is substitutable for, SUBUTEX.
    In February 2008, the Paris Court of Appeal confirmed the
    decision of the French competition authority.

26

Table of Contents   

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

Not applicable.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Listed below are the executive officers and corporate officers
    of Schering-Plough as February 29, 2008. Unless otherwise
    indicated, each has held the position indicated for the past
    five years. Officers serve for one year and until their
    successors have been duly appointed.

Name 

Title 

Age 

Robert J. Bertolini*

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(1)

46

John M. Carroll

Vice President, Global Internal Audits(2)

47

C. Ron Cheeley*

Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources(3)

57

Carrie S. Cox*

Executive Vice President and President, Global Pharmaceuticals(4)

50

William J. Creelman

Vice President, Tax(5)

53

Fred Hassan*

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer(6)

62

Steven H. Koehler*

Vice President and Controller(7)

57

Thomas P. Koestler, Ph.D*

Executive Vice President and President, Schering-Plough Research
    Institute(8)

56

Raul E. Kohan*

Senior Vice President, Corporate Excellence

55

Joseph J. LaRosa

Vice President, Legal Affairs(9)

49

Ian A.T. McInnes

Senior Vice President and President, Global Supply Chain(10)

55

E. Kevin Moore

Vice President and Treasurer

55

Lori Queisser*

Senior Vice President, Global Compliance and Business
    Practices(11)

47

Thomas J. Sabatino, Jr.*

Executive Vice President and General Counsel(12)

49

Karl Salnoske

Vice President and Chief Information Officer(13)

54

Brent Saunders*

Senior Vice President and President, Consumer Health Care(14)

38

Susan Ellen Wolf

Corporate Secretary, Associate General Counsel and Vice
    President, Corporate Governance(15)

53

*  

Officers as defined in
     Rule 16a-1(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

(1)  

Mr. Bertolini joined Schering-Plough in 2003 as Executive
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bertolini
    was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers from 1993 to 2003. 

(2)  

Mr. Carroll joined Schering-Plough in 2006 as Vice
    President, Global Internal Audits. Mr. Carroll was Vice
    President and General Auditor of American Standard Companies
    from 2005 to 2006, General Auditor of American Standard
    Companies from 2002 to 2005 and Assistant Treasurer of
    Bristol-Myers Squibb from 2000 to 2002. 

(3)  

Mr. Cheeley joined Schering-Plough in 2003 as Senior Vice
    President, Global Human Resources. Mr. Cheeley was Group
    Vice President, Global Compensation and Benefits of Pharmacia
    Corporation from 1998 to 2003. 

(4)  

Ms. Cox joined Schering-Plough in 2003 as Executive Vice
    President and President, Global Pharmaceuticals. Ms. Cox
    was Executive Vice President and President, Global Prescription
    Business of Pharmacia Corporation from 1999 to 2003. 

(5)  

Mr. Creelman joined Schering-Plough in 2004 as Vice
    President, Tax. Mr. Creelman was Senior Tax Counsel of
    Pfizer from 2003 to 2004. Mr. Creelman was Assistant Vice
    President   International Tax of CIGNA Corporation
    from 2002 to 2003. 

27

Table of Contents   

(6)  

Mr. Hassan joined Schering-Plough in 2003 as Chairman of
    the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Hassan was
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pharmacia
    Corporation from 2001 to 2003. 

(7)  

Mr. Koehler joined Schering-Plough in 2006 as Vice
    President and Controller. Mr. Koehler was Senior Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from 2004 to
    2006, and Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and
    Corporate Secretary from 2002 to 2004 of The Medicines Company. 

(8)  

Dr. Koestler was named Executive President and President of
    Schering-Plough Research Institute in September of 2006.
    Dr. Koestler was Executive Vice President, Global
    Development of Schering-Plough Research Institute from 2005 to
    September of 2006; Executive Vice President of Schering-Plough
    Research Institute from 2003 to 2005, and Senior Vice President,
    Global Regulatory Affairs of Pharmacia Corporation from 2001 to
    2003. 

(9)  

Mr. LaRosa became Vice President, Legal Affairs in 2004.
    Mr. LaRosa was Staff Vice President, Secretary and
    Associate General Counsel from 2001 to 2004. 

(10)  

Dr. McInnes joined Schering-Plough in 2004 as Senior Vice
    President, Global Supply Chain. Dr. McInnes was Senior Vice
    President, Global Supply Chain of Pharmacia Corporation from
    1994 to 2003 and Executive Vice President, Supply Chain, Watson
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. from 2003 to 2004. 

(11)  

Ms. Queisser joined Schering-Plough in February of 2007 as
    Senior Vice President, Global Compliance and Business Practices.
    Ms. Queisser was Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer
    from October 2002 to February 2007, and Executive Director and
    General Auditor from March 2002 to October 2002 of Eli Lilly
    Company. 

(12)  

Mr. Sabatino joined Schering-Plough in 2004 as Executive
    Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Sabatino was Senior
    Vice President and General Counsel of Baxter International, Inc.
    from 2001 to 2004. 

(13)  

Mr. Salnoske joined Schering-Plough in 2004 as Vice
    President and Chief Information Officer. Mr. Salnoske was
    CEO of Adaptive Trade from 2001 to 2004. 

(14)  

Mr. Saunders joined Schering-Plough in 2003 as Senior Vice
    President, Global Compliance and Business Practices.
    Mr. Saunders was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers from
    2000 to 2003. 

(15)  

Ms. Wolf was named Vice President, Corporate Secretary and
    Associate General Counsel in 2004. She held various positions in
    Schering-Plough s Law Department from 2002 to 2004. 

Part II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
    Matters   

The principal market for Schering-Plough s common stock is
    the New York Stock Exchange. Additional information required by
    this Item is incorporated by reference from the table captioned
     Quarterly Data  (unaudited) under Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

28

Table of Contents   

The following table provides information with respect to
    purchases by Schering-Plough of its common shares during the
    fourth quarter of 2007.

ISSUER
    PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

(1)  

All of the shares included in the table above were repurchased
    pursuant to Schering-Plough s stock incentive program and
    represent shares delivered to Schering-Plough by option holders
    for payment of the exercise price and tax withholding
    obligations in connection with stock options and stock awards. 

Performance
    Graph  

Comparison
    of Cumulative Total Return 
    For the Five Years Ended December 31, 2007  

The graph above assumes a $100 investment on December 31,
    2002, and reinvestment of all dividends, in each of
    Schering-Plough s Common Shares, the S P 500 Index,
    and a composite peer group of the major
     U.S.-based 
    pharmaceutical companies, which are: Abbott Laboratories,
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson   Johnson, Eli
    Lilly and Company, Merck   Co., Inc., Pfizer Inc. and
    Wyeth.

29

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

(1)  

Operating results and other financial information reflects the
    closing of the OBS acquisition on November 19, 2007,
    including the impacts of purchase accounting in accordance with
    SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations.  

(2)  

2007, 2006, 2005, 2004, and 2003 include special and acquisition
    related charges and manufacturing streamlining costs of $84,
    $248, $294, $153, and $599, respectively. See Note 3,
     Special and Acquisition Related Charges and Manufacturing
    Streamlining,  for additional information on these charges
    that were incurred in 2007, 2006, and 2005. The special charges
    incurred in 2004 included $119 million of employee
    termination costs and $34 million for asset impairment and
    related charges. Special charges in 2003 included the increases
    in litigation reserves of $350 million that resulted from
    the investigations into Schering-Plough s sales and
    marketing practices, approximately $179 million of employee
    termination costs related to the Voluntary Early Retirement
    Program announced in August 2003 and $70 million of asset
    impairment and other charges. 

(3)  

The increase in long-term debt during 2007 primarily reflects
    the financing of the OBS acquisition. 

30

Table of Contents   

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

EXECUTIVE
    SUMMARY  

Overview
    of Schering-Plough  

Schering-Plough is an innovation-driven science-centered global
    health care company. Schering-Plough discovers, develops and
    manufactures pharmaceuticals for three customer
    markets   human prescription, animal health, and
    consumer. While most of the research and development activity is
    directed toward prescription products, there are important
    applications of this central research and development platform
    into the animal health products and the consumer health care
    products. Schering-Plough also accesses external innovation via
    partnering, in-licensing and acquisition for all three customer
    markets.

Strategy  
    Focused on Science   

Earlier this decade, Schering-Plough experienced a number of
    business, regulatory, and legal challenges. In April 2003, the
    Board of Directors named Fred Hassan as the new Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer of Schering-Plough
    Corporation. With support from the Board, he initiated a
    strategic plan, with the goal of stabilizing, repairing and
    turning around Schering-Plough in order to build long-term
    shareholder value. He also installed a new senior executive
    team. That strategic plan, the Action Agenda, is a six- to
    eight-year, five-phase plan. Schering-Plough is currently in the
    fourth phase of the Action Agenda   Build the Base.
    During the Build the Base phase, Schering-Plough continues to
    focus on its strategy of value creation across a broad front,
    and believes the Organon BioSciences N.V. (OBS) acquisition was
    a major, transformative accomplishment in this regard. The OBS
    acquisition added further diversification of marketed products,
    including two new therapeutic areas (Women s Health and
    Central Nervous System), as well as significant strength in
    Animal Health products and pipeline. Other accomplishments in
    2007 include:

growing the business, for example there was double digit sales
    growth in all three product groups, Human Pharmaceuticals,
    Animal Health and Consumer Health Care;

penetrating new markets, including China, Brazil and Russia;

expanding the product portfolio for Schering-Plough s three
    customer groups   human pharmaceutical, animal health
    and consumer health care; and

discovering and developing or acquiring new products.

A key component of the Action Agenda is applying science to meet
    unmet medical needs. Research and development activities focus
    on mechanisms to treat serious diseases. As a result, a core
    strategy of Schering-Plough is to invest substantial funds in
    scientific research with the goal of creating therapies and
    treatments that address important unmet medical needs and also
    have commercial value. Schering-Plough has been successful in
    advancing its pipeline into several late-stage projects that
    will require sizable resources to complete. Consistent with this
    core strategy, Schering-Plough is increasing its investment in
    research and development. As Schering-Plough continues to
    develop the later phase growth-drivers of the pipeline (e.g.,
    sugammadex, thrombin receptor antagonist, golimumab, vicriviroc,
    boceprevir and asenapine), it anticipates higher spending on
    clinical trial activities. Schering-Plough s progressing
    early pipeline includes drug candidates across a wide range of
    therapeutic areas with more than 20 compounds now approaching or
    in Phase I development.

As part of the Action Agenda, Schering-Plough continues to work
    to enhance infrastructure, upgrade processes and systems and
    strengthen talent   both the recruitment of talented
    individuals and the development of key employees. While these
    efforts are being implemented on a companywide basis,
    Schering-Plough is focusing especially on research and
    development to support Schering-Plough s science-based
    business.

31

Table of Contents   

Further, with the integration of the OBS employees into
    Schering-Plough much new talent has been added. In addition, as
    part of the integration of OBS, Schering-Plough has also
    announced that there will be some workforce reduction to
    eliminate redundancies.

2007
    Results   Highlights of Schering-Plough s
    performance in 2007 are as follows:   

Closed the acquisition of OBS on November 19, 2007 for a
    purchase price of approximately Euro 11 billion.

Schering-Plough s net sales in 2007 were
    $12.7 billion, an increase of $2.1 billion, or
    20 percent, as compared to the 2006 period. 2007 net
    sales included $626 million of sales of products acquired
    as part of the OBS acquisition.

Net loss available to common shareholders in 2007 was
    $1.6 billion, as compared to net income available to common
    shareholders of $1.1 billion in 2006. Included in the
    2007 net loss is approximately $4.0 billion of charges
    related to purchase accounting for the OBS acquisition,
    including a $3.8 billion acquired in-process research and
    development charge. Cash flow provided by operating activities
    was $2.6 billion in 2007.

Global sales of Schering-Plough s cholesterol franchise
    products, VYTORIN and ZETIA, made by the cholesterol joint
    venture with Merck   Company, Inc. (Merck) continued
    to grow in 2007 and contributed significantly to
    Schering-Plough s improved operating results and cash flow
    (see note below about 2008 developments). In addition, increased
    sales of pharmaceutical products such as REMICADE, TEMODAR and
    NASONEX also contributed favorably to Schering-Plough s
    overall operating results and cash flow.

The additional strength that Schering-Plough developed, in 2007
    and during the four years since Mr. Hassan and the new
    management team began the Action Agenda, is key for
    Schering-Plough in the current environment. The pharmaceutical
    industry continues to be subject to ever-more critical scrutiny,
    where events can be mischaracterized and drive amplified
    reactions. Schering-Plough believes that new scientific data are
    best presented and discussed at appropriate scientific and
    medical forums.

Early
    2008 Developments Relating to the Cholesterol
    Franchise   

As explained in more detail in Part I, Item 3,
     Legal Proceedings,   ENHANCE Matter,  in
    early 2008, Schering-Plough encountered such a challenge when
    results of a Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture
    clinical trial, called ENHANCE, and joint venture products ZETIA
    and VYTORIN, became the subject of much media scrutiny prior to
    fuller discussions of the trial results at appropriate medical
    forums. A discussion is scheduled for the American College of
    Cardiology meeting on March 30, 2008.

Medical experts and health advisory groups have long recognized
    high LDL cholesterol (often known as  bad
    cholesterol ) as a significant cardiovascular risk factor
    and recommended increasingly aggressive treatment of high
    cholesterol for certain patients. Lowering LDL cholesterol,
    along with a healthy diet and lifestyle changes, remains the
    cornerstone of lipid treatment for patients at risk for heart
    disease. Clinical studies, including ENHANCE, have demonstrated
    that VYTORIN lowers patients  LDL cholesterol more than
    rosuvastatin, atorvastatin and simvastatin at the doses studied
    and was able to get more patients to their LDL cholesterol goals
    (as defined by ATP III).

While it is too early to tell the impact of the joint
    venture s ENHANCE trial results on the joint ventures 
    cholesterol business, Schering-Plough s diversified group
    of products and geographic areas, as well as its highly
    experienced executive team, gives Schering-Plough additional
    strength that will be helpful in weathering this situation.

Strategic
    Alliances  

As is typical in the pharmaceutical industry, Schering-Plough
    licenses manufacturing, marketing
     and/or 
    distribution rights to certain products to others, and also
    manufactures, markets
     and/or 
    distributes products

32

Table of Contents   

owned by others pursuant to licensing and joint venture
    arrangements. Any time that third parties are involved, there
    are additional factors relating to the third party and outside
    the control of Schering-Plough that may create positive or
    negative impacts on Schering-Plough. VYTORIN, ZETIA and REMICADE
    are subject to such arrangements and are key to
    Schering-Plough s current business and financial
    performance.

In addition, any potential strategic alternatives may be
    impacted by the change of control provisions in those
    arrangements, which could result in VYTORIN and ZETIA being
    acquired by Merck or REMICADE reverting back to Centocor. The
    change in control provision relating to VYTORIN and ZETIA is
    included in the contract with Merck, filed as Exhibit 10(r)
    to Schering-Plough s
     10-K,  and
    the change of control provision relating to REMICADE is
    contained in the contract with Centocor, filed as
    Exhibit 10(v) to Schering-Plough s
     10-K. 

Cholesterol
    Franchise  

Schering-Plough s cholesterol franchise products, VYTORIN
    and ZETIA, are managed through a joint venture between
    Schering-Plough and Merck for the treatment of elevated
    cholesterol levels in all markets outside of Japan. ZETIA is
    Schering-Plough s novel cholesterol absorption inhibitor.
    VYTORIN is the combination of ZETIA and Zocor (simvastatin), a
    statin medication developed by Merck. The financial commitment
    to compete in the cholesterol reduction market is shared with
    Merck, and profits from the sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA are also
    shared with Merck. The operating results of the joint venture
    with Merck are recorded using the equity method of accounting.

The cholesterol-reduction market is the single largest
    pharmaceutical category in the world. VYTORIN and ZETIA are
    competing in this market, and on a combined basis, these
    products continued to grow in terms of sales and market share
    during 2007 (see note above about 2008 developments). A material
    change in the sales or market share of Schering-Plough s
    cholesterol franchise would have a significant impact on
    Schering-Plough s consolidated results of operations and
    cash flows. In order to maintain and enhance its infrastructure
    and business, Schering-Plough must continue to increase profits.
    This increased profitability is largely dependent upon the
    performance of Schering-Plough s cholesterol franchise.

Japan is not included in the joint venture with Merck. In the
    Japanese market, Bayer Healthcare is co-marketing
    Schering-Plough s cholesterol-absorption inhibitor, ZETIA,
    which was approved in Japan in April 2007 as a monotherapy and
    co-administered with a statin for use in patients with
    hypercholesterolemia, familial hypercholesterolemia or
    homozygous sitosterolemia. ZETIA was launched in Japan during
    June 2007. Schering-Plough s sales of ZETIA in Japan under
    the co-marketing agreement with Bayer Healthcare are recognized
    in net sales.

License
    Arrangements with Centocor  

REMICADE is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory
    diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, early rheumatoid
    arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, Crohn s disease, ankylosing
    spondylitis, plaque psoriasis and ulcerative colitis. REMICADE
    is Schering-Plough s second largest marketed pharmaceutical
    product line (after the cholesterol franchise). REMICADE is
    licensed from and manufactured by Centocor, Inc., a
    Johnson   Johnson company. During 2005,
    Schering-Plough exercised an option under its contract with
    Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize
    golimumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody currently in
    Phase III trials. Schering-Plough has exclusive marketing
    rights to both products outside of the U.S., Japan and certain
    Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor
    revised their distribution agreement regarding the development,
    commercialization and distribution of both REMICADE and
    golimumab, extending Schering-Plough s rights to
    exclusively market REMICADE to match the duration of
    Schering-Plough s exclusive marketing rights for golimumab.
    Effective upon regulatory approval of golimumab in the EU,
    Schering-Plough s marketing rights for both products will
    now extend for 15 years after the first commercial sale of
    golimumab within the EU. Centocor will receive a progressively
    increased share of profits on Schering-Plough s
    distribution of both products in the Schering-Plough marketing
    territory between 2010 and 2014, and the share of profits will
    remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the term. The
    changes to the duration of REMICADE marketing rights and the
    profit sharing arrangement for the products are all conditioned
    on approval of golimumab being granted prior to
    September 1, 2014. Schering-Plough may independently
    develop

33

Table of Contents   

and market golimumab for a Crohn s disease indication in
    its territories, with an option for Centocor to participate. In
    addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to utilize an
    autoinjector device in the commercialization of golimumab and
    further agreed to share its development costs. For the rights to
    this device, Schering-Plough made an upfront payment of
    $21 million, which is included in research and development
    expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Manufacturing,
    Sales and Marketing  

Schering-Plough supports commercialized products with
    manufacturing, sales and marketing efforts. Schering-Plough is
    also moving forward with additional investments to enhance its
    infrastructure and business, including capital expenditures for
    the drug development process (where products are moved from the
    drug discovery pipeline to markets), information technology
    systems, and post-marketing studies and monitoring.

Schering-Plough continually reviews the business, including
    manufacturing operations, to identify actions that will enhance
    long-term competitiveness. However, Schering-Plough s
    manufacturing cost base is relatively fixed, and actions to
    significantly reduce Schering-Plough s manufacturing
    infrastructure, including OBS  manufacturing operations
    acquired during 2007, involve complex issues. As a result,
    shifting products between manufacturing plants can take many
    years due to construction and regulatory requirements, including
    revalidation and registration requirements. From time to time,
    actions are taken to enhance Schering-Plough s overall
    manufacturing efficiency. For example, during 2006,
    Schering-Plough closed a manufacturing plant in Puerto Rico and
    in 2007 began the process of closing a small manufacturing
    facility in the Asia Pacific region. Schering-Plough continues
    to review the carrying value of manufacturing assets for
    indications of impairment. Future events and decisions may lead
    to additional asset impairments or related costs.

Regulatory
    and Competitive Environment  

Schering-Plough is subject to the jurisdiction of various
    national, state and local regulatory agencies. Regulatory
    compliance is complex and costly, impacting the timing needed to
    bring new drugs to market and to market drugs for new
    indications.

Schering-Plough engages in clinical trial research in many
    countries around the world. Research activities must comply with
    stringent regulatory standards and are subject to inspection by
    U.S., the EU, and local country regulatory authorities.
    Schering-Plough is subject to pharmacovigilance reporting
    requirements in many countries and other jurisdictions,
    including the U.S., the EU, and the EU member states. Clinical
    trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs
    of competitors within the industry have raised safety concerns
    that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of
    marketed products.

A number of intermediaries are involved between drug
    manufacturers, such as Schering-Plough, and patients who use the
    drugs. These intermediaries impact the patient s ability,
    and their precribers s ability, to choose and pay for a
    particular drug. These intermediaries include health care
    providers, such as hospitals and clinics; payors and their
    representatives, such as employers, insurers, managed care
    organizations and governments; and others in the supply chain,
    such as pharmacists and wholesalers. Further, in the U.S., many
    of Schering-Plough s pharmaceutical products are subject to
    increasingly competitive pricing as certain of the
    intermediaries (including managed care groups, institutions and
    government agencies) seek price discounts. In most international
    markets, Schering-Plough operates in an environment of
    government mandated cost-containment programs. Also, the
    pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements, and
    related business practices of Schering-Plough and other
    participants in the health care industry are under increasing
    scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative,
    prosecutorial and administrative entities.

The market for pharmaceutical products is competitive.
    Schering-Plough s operations may be affected by
    technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation,
    patents granted to competitors, loss of patent protection due to
    challenges by competitors, competitive combination products, new
    products of competitors, new information from clinical trials of
    marketed products or post-marketing surveillance and generic
    competition as Schering-Plough s products mature.

34

Table of Contents   

OBS
    Acquisition  

On November 19, 2007, Schering-Plough acquired OBS for a
    purchase price of approximately Euro 11 billion in
    cash, or approximately $16.1 billion.

Commencing from the acquisition date, OBS  assets acquired
    and liabilities assumed, as well as the results of OBS 
    operations, are included in Schering-Plough s consolidated
    financial statements. There were approximately one and one-half
    months of results of operations relating to OBS included in
    Schering-Plough s Statement of Consolidated Operations for
    the year ended December 31, 2007.

The impact of purchase accounting, based on a preliminary
    valuation, resulted in the following non-cash charges in 2007:

Acquired In-Process Research and Development (IPR D), which
    was a one-time charge of approximately $3.8 billion.

Amortization of inventory adjusted to fair value, of which
    approximately $1.1 billion will be charged to Cost of Sales
    ($258 million in 2007) approximately over a one year
    period from the acquisition date.

Amortization of acquired intangible assets adjusted to fair
    value, of which $6.8 billion will be amortized over a
    weighted average life of 15 years to Cost of Sales
    ($65 million in 2007).

Incremental depreciation relating to the adjustment in fair
    value on property, plant and equipment of $885 million that
    will be depreciated primarily to Cost of Sales over the lives of
    the applicable property ($3 million in 2007).

The $3.8 billion acquired IPR D charge was associated
    with research projects in the women s health, central
    nervous system and anesthesia therapeutic areas of human health
    as well as research projects in animal health. The amount was
    determined by using discounted cash flow projections of
    identified research projects for which technological feasibility
    had not been established and for which there was no alternative
    future use. The discount rates used ranged from 14 percent
    to 18 percent. The projected launch dates following FDA or
    other regulatory approval are years 2008 through 2013, at which
    time Schering-Plough expects these projects to begin to generate
    cash flows. All of the research and development projects
    considered in the valuation are subject to the normal risks and
    uncertainties associated with demonstrating the safety and
    efficacy required to obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals.

DISCUSSION
    OF OPERATING RESULTS  

The results of operations in 2007 discussed below include
    OBS  product sales and expenses as well as certain non-cash
    charges relating to purchase accounting associated with the OBS
    acquisition.

Net
    Sales   

A significant portion of net sales is made to major
    pharmaceutical and health care product distributors and major
    retail chains in the U.S. Consequently, net sales and
    quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in
    the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and
    other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from
    seasonality, pricing, wholesaler, retail and trade buying
    decisions, changes in overall demand factors or other factors.
    In addition to these fluctuations, sales of many pharmaceutical
    products in the U.S. are subject to increased pricing
    pressure from managed care groups, institutions, government
    agencies, and other groups seeking discounts. Schering-Plough
    and other pharmaceutical manufacturers in the U.S. market
    are also required to provide statutorily defined rebates to
    various government agencies in order to participate in the
    Medicaid program, the veterans health care program, and other
    government-funded programs. The Medicare Prescription Drug
    Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 contains a
    prescription drug benefit for individuals who are eligible for
    Medicare. This prescription drug benefit became effective on
    January 1, 2006 and is resulting in increased use of
    generics and increased purchasing power of those negotiating on
    behalf of Medicare recipients. In most international markets,
    Schering-Plough operates in an environment where governments may
    and have mandated cost-containment

35

Table of Contents   

programs, placed restrictions on physician prescription levels
    and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic
    drugs and enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods to
    control costs.

Consolidated net sales in 2007 were $12.7 billion, an
    increase of $2.1 billion or 20 percent as compared to
    2006. Consolidated net sales in 2007 included $626 million
    of OBS  net sales related to the period subsequent to the
    acquisition. The increase also reflects the growth in sale
    volumes of REMICADE, TEMODAR, NASONEX and AVELOX as well as
    contributions from Animal Health and Consumer Health Care and a
    favorable impact of 4 percent from foreign exchange.

Consolidated net sales in 2006 were $10.6 billion, an
    increase of $1.1 billion or 11 percent compared to
    2005. The increase primarily reflected the growth in sale
    volumes of REMICADE, NASONEX, PEGINTRON and TEMODAR. This
    increase also reflected an unfavorable impact of 1 percent
    from foreign exchange.

Net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and
    2005 were as follows:

N/M   Not a meaningful percentage.

Sales of Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals in 2007 totaled
    $10.2 billion, a $1.6 billion or 19% increase compared
    to 2006. Included in 2007 are $409 million of net sales
    related to Organon, the human health business of OBS. Sales of
    Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals in 2006 totaled
    $8.6 billion, a $1.0 billion or 13% increase compared
    to 2005.

International net sales of REMICADE, a drug for the treatment of
    immune-mediated inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid
    arthritis, early rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis,
    Crohn s disease, ankylosing spondylitis, plaque psoriasis,
    and ulcerative colitis, were up 33 percent to
    $1.6 billion in 2007 as compared to 2006 driven by
    continued market growth, expanded use across indications and a
    favorable impact from foreign

36

Table of Contents   

exchange. Global net sales increased 32 percent in 2006 to
    $1.2 billion as compared to 2005, due to greater demand,
    expanded indications and continued market growth. Competitive
    products for the indications referred to above have been
    introduced during 2006 and 2007.

Global net sales of NASONEX Nasal Spray, a once-daily
    corticosteroid nasal spray for allergies, rose 16 percent
    to $1.1 billion in 2007 as compared to 2006 due to
    increased sales across all geographic regions, and
    28 percent to $944 million in 2006 as compared to
    2005, as the product captured greater U.S. and
    international market share in 2006. Competitive products have
    been introduced in 2007.

Global net sales of PEGINTRON Powder for Injection, a pegylated
    interferon product for treating hepatitis C, increased
    9 percent to $911 million in 2007 as compared to 2006
    due to higher sales in Latin America and emerging markets across
    Europe, and tempered by lower sales in Japan due to increased
    competition and a decrease in the U.S. market size. Global
    net sales increased 11 percent to $837 million in 2006
    as compared to 2005 reflecting higher sales volume in Japan and
    the U.S. In Japan, sales in 2005 benefited from a
    significant number of patients who were waiting for approval of
    PEGINTRON before beginning treatment.

Global net sales of TEMODAR Capsules, a treatment for certain
    types of brain tumors, increased 22 percent to
    $861 million in 2007 as compared to 2006 due to increased
    sales across geographic markets, including Japan, where the
    product was launched in September 2006. Global net sales
    increased 20 percent to $703 million in 2006 as
    compared to 2005 due to the increased utilization for new
    indications.

Global net sales of CLARINEX (marketed as AERIUS in many
    countries outside the U.S.), for the treatment of seasonal
    outdoor allergies and year-round indoor allergies, in 2007
    increased 11 percent to $799 million as compared to
    2006 primarily due to higher sales in international markets.
    Global net sales in 2006 increased 12 percent to
    $722 million as compared to 2005 due to increased demand in
    Europe and Latin America as well as increased sales in the
    U.S. despite slightly declining market share.

International net sales of prescription CLARITIN increased
    10 percent to $391 million in 2007 as compared to 2006
    reflecting growth in Latin America, Asia Pacific and Japan.
    Sales in 2006 decreased 4 percent to $356 million as
    compared to 2005.

Net sales of AVELOX, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the
    treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections, sold
    primarily in the U.S. by Schering-Plough as a result of its
    license agreement with Bayer, increased 26 percent to
    $384 million in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily as a
    result of increased market share. Net sales in 2006 increased
    34 percent to $304 million in 2006 as compared to
    $228 million in 2005 due to share growth and new
    indications.

Global net sales of INTEGRILIN Injection, a glycoprotein
    platelet aggregation inhibitor for the treatment of patients
    with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold primarily in the
    U.S. by Schering-Plough, increased 1 percent to
    $332 million in 2007 as compared to 2006. During 2006,
    sales increased 5 percent to $329 million as compared
    to 2005.

Global 2007 net sales of REBETOL Capsules, for use in
    combination with PEGINTRON or INTRON A for treating
    hepatitis C, decreased 11 percent to $277 million
    as compared to 2006 due to lower patient enrollment in Japan and
    increased generic competition. Global net sales in 2006
    decreased 6 percent to $311 million as compared to
    2005 due to lower sales in Europe and increased competition. In
    Japan, sales in 2005 benefited from the significant number of
    patients who were waiting for approval of PEGINTRON before
    beginning hepatitis C treatment.

International net sales of CAELYX, for the treatment of ovarian
    cancer, metastatic breast cancer and Kaposi s sarcoma,
    increased 25 percent to $257 million in 2007 as
    compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales in Latin
    America and a favorable impact from foreign exchange. Sales in
    2006 increased 13 percent to $206 million as compared
    to 2005 primarily due to an expanding market for this product.

Global net sales of INTRON A Injection, for chronic hepatitis B
    and C and other antiviral and anticancer indications, decreased
    2 percent to $233 million in 2007 as compared to 2006,
    and 17 percent in 2006 to

37

Table of Contents   

$237 million as compared to 2005. The decrease in both 2007
    and 2006 were due to the conversion to PEGINTRON for treating
    hepatitis C in Japan.

International net sales of SUBUTEX/SUBOXONE, for the treatment
    of opiate addiction, increased 8 percent to
    $220 million in 2007 as compared to 2006 as a result of a
    benefit from foreign exchange. Sales increased 3 percent to
    $203 million in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to increased
    market share. In October 2006, SUBOXONE was approved by the EU,
    including the 25 member states as well as Iceland and Norway,
    for the treatment of opioid dependence.

Global net sales of ASMANEX, an orally inhaled steroid for
    asthma, were up 57 percent to $162 million in 2007 as
    compared to 2006 primarily due to market share growth in the
    U.S. Sales increased to $103 million in 2006 as
    compared to 2005 due to the ASMANEX launch commencing in late
    2005.

Other pharmaceutical net sales include all net sales of Organon
    from the date of the acquisition through December 31, 2007
    and a large number of lower sales volume human prescription
    pharmaceutical products. Net sales of Organon were
    $409 million in 2007 and included $57 million for
    FOLLISTIM/PUREGON, a fertility treatment, and $45 million
    for NUVARING, a contraception product. Also included in other
    pharmaceutical sales are several lower volume products which are
    often sold in limited markets outside the U.S., and many are
    multiple source products no longer protected by patents. These
    products include treatments for respiratory, cardiovascular,
    dermatological, infectious, oncological and other diseases.
    Included in other pharmaceutical sales is sales of
    Schering-Plough s albuterol products. In 2005, the FDA
    issued a Final Rule that requires all CFC albuterol products,
    including Schering-Plough s PROVENTIL CFC, be removed from
    the market no later than December 31, 2008.
    Schering-Plough s transition to albuterol HFA (PROVENTIL
    HFA) is complete. Schering-Plough no longer manufactures the CFC
    product and all remaining CFC inventories have been sold during
    2007. Schering-Plough is uncertain as to the ultimate impact on
    Schering-Plough s overall future sales of PROVENTIL HFA,
    due to the complexities and multiple external factors
    influencing this transition, including competing albuterol HFA
    products.

Global net sales of Animal Health products increased
    37 percent to $1.3 billion in 2007 as compared to
    2006. Included in global Animal Health net sales are
    $217 million related to Intervet, the animal health
    business of OBS, for the period subsequent to the acquisition.
    Global net sales in 2007 also benefited from solid growth in all
    geographic areas, led by the cattle and companion animal product
    lines, coupled with a positive impact from foreign currency
    exchange rates. Global net sales increased 7 percent in
    2006 to $910 million as compared to 2005, reflecting strong
    growth of core brands across most geographic and species areas
    led by higher sales of companion animal products. The Animal
    Health segment s sales growth rate is impacted by intense
    competition and the frequent introduction of generic products.

Global net sales of Consumer Health Care products, which include
    OTC, foot care and sun care products, increased 13 percent
    or $143 million as compared to 2006. The increase in 2007
    was primarily due to the sales of MiraLAX, which was launched in
    February 2007 as the first Rx-to-OTC switch in the laxative
    category in more than 30 years, and higher sales of OTC
    CLARITIN. Global net sales in 2006 increased 3 percent or
    $30 million as compared to 2005 reflecting an increase in
    sales of sun care products and DR. SCHOLL S and other foot
    care products. Sales of OTC CLARITIN increased 18 percent
    to $462 million in 2007 as compared to 2006 due to sales
    growth across all product forms. OTC CLARITIN sales decreased
    1 percent in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of the
    restrictions on the retail sale of OTC products containing
    pseudoephedrine (PSE). In addition, OTC CLARITIN continues to
    face competition from private labels and branded loratadine, and
    a competing prescription antihistamine was launched for OTC sale
    in early 2008. Net sales of sun care products increased
    $17 million or 8 percent in 2007 as compared to 2006
    due to COPPERTONE CONTINUOUS SPRAY line extensions, and
    $18 million or 9 percent in 2006 as compared to 2005,
    primarily due to the success of new COPPERTONE CONTINUOUS SPRAY
    products launched in 2005. Future sales in the Consumer Health
    Care segment are difficult to predict because the consumer
    health care market is highly competitive, with heavy advertising
    to consumers and frequent competitive product introductions.

38

Table of Contents   

Costs,
    Expenses and Equity Income   

A summary of costs, expenses and equity income for the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as follows:

N/M   Not a meaningful percentage

Substantially all the sales of cholesterol products are not
    included in Schering-Plough s net sales. The results of
    these sales are reflected in equity income. In addition, due to
    the virtual nature of the joint venture, Schering-Plough incurs
    substantial selling, general and administrative expenses that
    are not captured in equity income but are included in
    Schering-Plough s Statements of Consolidated Operations. As
    a result, Schering-Plough s gross margin, and ratios of
    SG A expenses and R D expenses as a percentage of net
    sales do not reflect the benefit of the impact of the joint
    venture s operating results.

Gross
    margin  

Gross margin was 65.3 percent in 2007 as compared to
    65.1 percent in 2006. Gross margin in 2007 was unfavorably
    impacted by $326 million of purchase accounting adjustments
    included in cost of sales. These purchase accounting adjustments
    were a result of the amortization of fair values of certain
    assets acquired as part of the OBS acquisition. Gross margin in
    2007, when compared to 2006, benefited from realized cost
    savings of approximately $100 million from manufacturing
    streamlining in 2006, the non-recurrence of $146 million of
    charges associated with the aforementioned manufacturing
    streamlining actions and favorable product mix.

Despite negative impacts on cost of sales from the costs
    resulting from Schering-Plough s actions to streamline its
    manufacturing operations during 2006, gross margin increased to
    65.1 percent in 2006 from 64.8 percent in 2005. This
    improvement in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales
    of higher margin products and process improvements within
    Schering-Plough s supply chain, including cost savings from
    the manufacturing streamlining activities completed during 2006.
    In 2006, cost of sales included charges totaling
    $146 million associated with Schering-Plough s actions
    to streamline its manufacturing operations, offset by savings of
    approximately $30 million as a result of these actions. See
    Note 3,  Special and Acquisition Related Charges and
    Manufacturing Streamlining,  under Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplemental Data,  for
    additional information.

Selling,
    general and administrative  

Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A)
    increased 16 percent to $5.5 billion in 2007 as
    compared to 2006. Included in SG A in 2007 were
    $227 million from OBS. In addition, the increase in
    SG A reflects higher promotion spending, ongoing
    investments in emerging markets and an unfavorable impact from
    foreign exchange.

SG A increased 8 percent to $4.7 billion in 2006
    as compared to 2005, reflecting ongoing investments in emerging
    markets and field support for product launches as well as higher
    promotional spending.

39

Table of Contents   

Research
    and development  

Research and development (R D) spending increased
    34 percent to $2.9 billion in 2007 as compared to the
    2006 period. Included in R D in 2007 were $111 million
    from OBS. Also included in R D were upfront payments of
    $197 million mainly related to certain licensing
    transactions. The increase in R D spending versus 2006 also
    reflects higher spending for clinical trials and related
    activities and investments to build greater breadth and capacity
    to support the continued expansion of Schering-Plough s
    pipeline. In 2006, R D spending increased 17 percent
    to $2.2 billion as compared to the 2005 period. The 2006
    increase was due to higher costs associated with clinical trials
    as well as building greater breadth and capacity to support
    Schering-Plough s progressing pipeline. Generally, changes
    in R D spending reflect the timing of
    Schering-Plough s funding of both internal research efforts
    and research collaborations with various partners to discover
    and develop a steady flow of innovative products.

To maximize Schering-Plough s chances for the successful
    development of new products, Schering-Plough began a Development
    Excellence initiative in 2005 to build talent and critical mass,
    create a uniform level of excellence and deliver on
    high-priority programs within R D. In 2006, Schering-Plough
    began a Global Clinical Harmonization Program to maximize and
    globalize the quality of clinical trial execution,
    pharmacovigilance and regulatory processes. In 2007, certain
    aspects of the Global Clinical Harmonization Program have been
    implemented.

Acquired
    in-process research and development  

The acquired in-process research and development charge of
    $3.8 billion in 2007 was a result of the OBS acquisition
    and represents the immediate expense recognition of the fair
    value of acquired research projects for which technological
    feasibility has not been established and for which there is no
    alternative future use.

Other
    (income)/expense, net  

Schering-Plough had other income, net, of $683 million in
    2007 compared to $135 million of other income, net, in 2006
    and other expense, net, of $5 million in 2005. Other
    income, net, in 2007 included net realized gains on foreign
    currency options of $510 million related to the OBS
    acquisition. The increase in other income, net, in 2007 also
    reflected higher interest income due to higher balances of cash
    equivalents and short-term investments partially offset by
    higher interest expense due to the issuance of new debt.

Special
    and acquisition related charges and manufacturing
    streamlining  

2007
    special and acquisition related charges  

During the year ended December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough
    incurred $84 million of special and acquisition-related
    charges, comprised of $61 million of integration-related
    costs for the OBS acquisition and $23 million of severance
    charges as part of integration activities.

2006
    manufacturing streamlining  

During 2006, Schering-Plough implemented changes to its
    manufacturing operations in Puerto Rico and New Jersey that have
    streamlined its global supply chain and further enhanced
    Schering-Plough s long-term competitiveness. These changes
    resulted in the phase-out and closure of Schering-Plough s
    manufacturing operations in Manati, Puerto Rico, and additional
    workforce reductions in Las Piedras, Puerto Rico, and New
    Jersey. In total, these actions resulted in the elimination of
    over 1,000 positions. Schering-Plough expects these actions to
    yield an annualized cost savings of approximately
    $100 million.

Special charges:   Special charges in 2006
    related to the changes in Schering-Plough s manufacturing
    operations totaled $102 million. These charges consisted of
    approximately $47 million of severance and $55 million
    of fixed asset impairments.

Cost of Sales:   Included in 2006 cost of sales
    was approximately $146 million consisting of
    $93 million of accelerated depreciation, $46 million
    of inventory write-offs, and $7 million of other charges
    related to the closure of Schering-Plough s manufacturing
    facilities in Manati, Puerto Rico.

40

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes activities reflected in the
    consolidated financial statements related to changes to
    Schering-Plough s manufacturing operations which were
    completed in 2006:

2005
    special charge activities   

Special charges incurred in 2005 are as follows:

Litigation Charges:   In 2005, litigation
    reserves were increased by $250 million. This increase
    resulted in a total reserve of $500 million for the
    Massachusetts Investigation, as well as the investigations and
    the state litigation disclosed under  AWP Litigation and
    Investigations  in Note 20,  Legal, Environmental
    and Regulatory Matters,  representing
    Schering-Plough s then current estimate to resolve this
    matter. On August 29, 2006, Schering-Plough announced it
    had reached an agreement with the U.S. Attorney s
    Office for the District of Massachusetts and the
    U.S. Department of Justice to settle the Massachusetts
    Investigation for an aggregate amount of $435 million plus
    interest. This settlement amount relates only to the
    Massachusetts Investigation. The AWP investigations and
    litigation are ongoing. During 2007, Schering-Plough made
    payments totaling $435 million related to this settlement.

Employee termination costs:   Employee
    termination costs in 2005 consisted of $7 million
    associated with a Voluntary Early Retirement Program (VERP) in
    the U.S. during 2003 and $21 million of other employee
    termination costs.

Asset impairment and other charges:   For the
    year ended December 31, 2005, Schering-Plough recognized
    asset impairment and other charges of $16 million related
    primarily to the consolidation of Schering-Plough s
    U.S. biotechnology organizations.

Equity
    income  

Sales of the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture
    totaled $5.2 billion, $3.9 billion, and
    $2.4 billion in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The
    sales growth in 2007 was due primarily to higher market share
    and market growth in the U.S. and continued expansion into
    international markets. The sales growth in 2006 was due
    primarily to an increase in market share.

41

Table of Contents   

The companies bear the costs of their own general sales forces
    and commercial overhead in marketing joint venture products
    around the world. In the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, the
    cholesterol agreements provide for a reimbursement to each
    company for physician details that are set on annual basis, and
    in Italy, a contractual amount is included in the profit sharing
    calculation that is not reimbursed. In the U.S., Canada and
    Puerto Rico, this amount is equal to each company s
    physician details multiplied by a contractual fixed fee.
    Schering-Plough reports these amounts as part of equity income.
    These amounts do not represent a reimbursement of specific,
    incremental and identifiable costs for Schering-Plough s
    detailing of the cholesterol products in these markets. In
    addition, these amounts are not reflective of
    Schering-Plough s sales effort related to the joint
    venture, as Schering-Plough s sales force and related costs
    associated with the joint venture are generally estimated to be
    higher.

Costs of the joint venture that the companies contractually
    share are a portion of manufacturing costs, specifically
    identified promotion costs (including direct-to-consumer
    advertising and direct and identifiable out-of-pocket promotion)
    and other agreed upon costs for specific services such as market
    support, market research, market expansion, a specialty sales
    force and physician education programs.

Certain specified research and development expenses are
    generally shared equally by Schering-Plough and Merck. Under
    certain conditions, as specified in the joint venture agreements
    with Merck, Schering-Plough could be entitled to receive
    reimbursements of its future research and development expenses
    of up to $105 million. Additional information regarding the
    joint venture with Merck is also included in Note 4,
     Equity Income,  under Item 8,  Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Equity income from the Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture
    totaled $2.0 billion, $1.5 billion, and
    $873 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The
    increase in 2007 equity income as compared to 2006 reflected
    higher market share in the U.S. and international sales
    growth. The increase in 2006 equity income as compared to 2005
    reflected continued strong sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA.

During 2005, Schering-Plough recognized milestones from Merck of
    $20 million related to certain European approvals of
    VYTORIN (ezetimibe/simvastatin) in 2005.

It should be noted that Schering-Plough incurs substantial
    selling, general and administrative and other costs, which are
    not reflected in equity income and instead are included in the
    overall cost structure of Schering-Plough.

Provision
    for income taxes  

Tax expense was $258 million, $362 million, and
    $228 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The
    2007 tax provision included tax benefits of $89 million
    related to the amortization of fair values of certain assets
    acquired as part of the OBS acquisition. The 2006 income tax
    provision primarily relates to foreign taxes. The 2005 tax
    provision includes a benefit of $46 million related to an
    IRS Notice issued in August 2005, which resulted in a reduction
    of the previously accrued tax liability attributable to
    repatriations under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
    (AJCA). The tax provisions in 2007, 2006 and 2005 do not include
    any benefit related to U.S. operating losses. During 2004,
    Schering-Plough established a valuation allowance on its
    net U.S. deferred tax assets, including the benefit of
    U.S. operating losses, as management concluded that it is
    not more likely than not that the benefit of the U.S. net
    deferred tax assets can be realized. At December 31, 2007,
    Schering-Plough continues to maintain a valuation allowance
    against its U.S. net deferred tax assets. Schering-Plough
    expects to report a U.S. Net Operating Loss (NOL)
    carryforward of $1.7 billion on its tax return for the year
    ended December 31, 2007. This U.S. NOL carryforward
    could be materially reduced after examination of
    Schering-Plough s income tax returns by the Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS).

In 2007, Schering-Plough generated approximately
    $980 million in U.S. losses including the impact of
    purchase accounting, however, due to differences between
    financial and tax reporting, Schering-Plough expects to report a
    minimal increase in its NOL on its 2007 U.S. tax return.

Schering-Plough implemented the provisions of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes,  (FIN 48) as of January 1,
    2007. As required by FIN 48, the cumulative effect of
    applying the provisions of the Interpretation was reported as an
    adjustment to Schering-Plough s retained earnings

42

Table of Contents   

balance as of January 1, 2007. Schering-Plough reduced its
    January 1, 2007 retained earnings by $259 million as a
    result of the adoption of FIN 48.

Schering-Plough s unrecognized tax benefits result
    primarily from the varying application of statutes, regulations
    and interpretations and include exposures on intercompany terms
    of cross border arrangements and utilization of cash held by
    foreign subsidiaries (investment in U.S. property) as well
    as Schering-Plough s tax matters litigation (see
    Note 20,  Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
    Matters,  under Item 8,  Financial Statements and
    Supplemental Data,  for additional information). At
    January 1, and December 31, 2007, the total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $924 million and
    $859 million, respectively, which includes reductions to
    deferred tax assets carrying a full valuation allowance,
    potential refund claims and tax liabilities. At January 1,
    and December 31, 2007, approximately $645 million and
    $535 million, respectively, of total unrecognized tax
    benefits, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.
    Management believes it is reasonably possible that total
    unrecognized tax benefits could decrease over the next
    twelve-month period by up to $615 million. This decrease
    would be primarily attributable to a decision in the tax matter
    currently being litigated in Newark District Court, possible
    final resolution of Schering-Plough s 1997   2002
    examination at IRS Appeals and possible resolutions of various
    other matters. However, the timing of the ultimate resolution of
    Schering-Plough s tax matters and the payment
     and/or 
    receipt of related cash is dependent on a number of factors,
    many of which are outside Schering-Plough s control.

Schering-Plough includes interest expense or income as well as
    potential penalties related to tax positions as a component of
    income tax expense in the Statement of Consolidated Operations.
    The total amount of accrued interest related to tax positions at
    January 1, and December 31, 2007 was $193 million
    and $197 million, respectively, and is included in other
    accrued liabilities.

During the second quarter of 2007, the IRS completed its
    examination of Schering-Plough s
     1997-2002 
    federal income tax returns. Schering-Plough is seeking
    resolution of an issue raised during this examination through
    the IRS administrative appeals process. Schering-Plough remains
    open with the IRS for the 1997   2007 tax years. For
    most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both
    U.S. state and foreign), Schering-Plough s income tax
    returns are open for examination for the period 2000 through
    2007.

Net
    (loss)/income available to common shareholders  

Schering-Plough had a net (loss)/income available to common
    shareholders of $(1.6) billion, $1.1 billion and
    $183 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net
    loss available to common shareholders for 2007 included
    approximately $4.0 billion of charges related to purchase
    accounting for the OBS acquisition, including a
    $3.8 billion acquired in-process research and development
    charge. Net loss available to common shareholders for 2007
    included the deduction of preferred stock dividends of
    $118 million related to the 2004 and 2007 Preferred Stock.
    Net income available to common shareholders for 2006 and 2005
    included the deduction of preferred stock dividends of
    $86 million, in each period, related to the 2004 Preferred
    Stock. Net (loss)/income available to common shareholders for
    2007, 2006, and 2005 also included special and acquisition
    related charges and manufacturing streamlining costs of
    approximately $84 million, $248 million, and
    $294 million, respectively. See Note 3,  Special
    and Acquisition Related Charges and Manufacturing
    Streamlining,  under Item 8,  Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data,  for additional
    information.

LIQUIDITY
    AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES  

Discussion
    of Cash Flow   

43

Table of Contents   

Operating
    Activities  

In 2007, operating activities provided $2.6 billion of
    cash, compared with net cash provided by operations of
    $2.2 billion in 2006. The increase was primarily due to a
    net realized gain of $510 million from foreign currency
    options relating to the OBS acquisition, higher net sales and
    equity income, partially offset by payments of $435 million
    for the settlement of the Massachusetts Investigation and
    $98 million for tax and interest due in connection with an
    examination by the IRS of Schering-Plough s
     1997-2002 
    federal income tax returns.

During 2007, as part of an overall risk management strategy and
    in consideration of various preliminary financing scenarios
    associated with the acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough
    purchased euro-denominated currency options (derivatives) for
    aggregate premiums of approximately $165 million and
    received proceeds of $675 million upon the termination of
    these options, resulting in a net realized gain of
    $510 million. These derivatives were short-term (trading)
    in nature and did not hedge a specific financing or investment
    transaction. Accordingly, the cash impacts of these derivatives
    have been classified as operating cash flows in the Statement of
    Consolidated Cash Flows.

In 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was
    $2.2 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion as compared
    to 2005. The increase primarily resulted from higher net income
    and the timing of operating cash payments and receipts. In 2005,
    operating activities generated $882 million of cash
    including payments of approximately $375 million to tax
    authorities for tax liabilities related to the repatriation of
    foreign earnings under the AJCA; and tax payments of
    $239 million related to the settlement of certain tax
    contingencies for the tax years 1993 through 1996.

Investing
    Activities  

Net cash used for investing activities during 2007 was
    $13.2 billion, primarily consisting of $15.8 billion
    of net cash used to purchase OBS. In addition, source of cash
    for investing activities included a net reduction of short-term
    investments of $3.3 billion partially offset by
    $618 million of capital expenditures.

Net cash used for investing activities during 2006 was
    $2.9 billion primarily related to the net purchases of
    short-term investments of $2.4 billion previously invested
    in cash equivalents and $458 million of capital
    expenditures. Net cash used for investing activities during 2005
    was $454 million, primarily related to $478 million of
    capital expenditures and the purchase of intangible assets of
    $51 million, partially offset by proceeds from sales of
    property and equipment of $43 million and the net reduction
    in short-term investments of $33 million.

Financing
    Activities  

Net cash provided by financing activities was $10.1 billion
    for 2007, compared to cash used of $1.4 billion for the
    same period in 2006. Net cash provided by financing activities
    in 2007 included net proceeds on the issuance of common and
    mandatory convertible preferred shares of approximately
    $1.5 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, and net
    proceeds of approximately $6.4 billion on the issuance of
    long-term debt. Net cash provided by financing activities also
    included $225 million of proceeds from stock option
    exercises offset by the payment of dividends on common and
    preferred shares of $481 million.

Net cash used for financing activities during 2006 and 2005 was
    $1.4 billion and $633 million, respectively. Uses of
    cash for financing activities in 2006 and 2005 include the
    payment of dividends on common and preferred shares of
    $412 million and $410 million, respectively; the
    repayment of $1.0 billion of bank debt and short-term
    commercial paper borrowings in 2006; and $1.2 billion of
    short-term commercial paper borrowings in 2005. Uses of cash for
    financing activities in 2005 was partially offset by proceeds of
    $900 million from bank debt incurred by a foreign
    subsidiary related to funding of a portion of the repatriations
    under the AJCA during 2005. This bank debt was fully repaid in
    2006.

44

Table of Contents   

Other
    Discussion of Cash Flows  

Schering-Plough is moving forward with additional investments to
    enhance its infrastructure and business and currently is in the
    process of building a U.S. pharmaceutical sciences center
    in New Jersey. Capital expenditures of approximately
    $50 million and $40 million were made in 2007 and
    2006, respectively, related to this center. Additional capital
    expenditures of approximately $175 million are expected
    over the next two years. This center will allow Schering-Plough
    to streamline and integrate its drug development process, where
    products are moved from the drug discovery pipeline to market.
    There will be additional related expenditures to upgrade
    equipment and staffing for this center.

At December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough had net debt (total
    debt less cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    marketable securities) of $7.1 billion. Cash generated from
    operations, available cash and short-term investments and
    available credit facilities are expected to provide
    Schering-Plough with the ability to fund cash needs for the
    intermediate term.

Borrowings
    and Credit Facilities   

On September 17, 2007, Schering-Plough issued
    $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
    6.00 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017 and
    $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
    6.55 percent senior unsecured notes due 2037. The net
    proceeds from this offering were approximately
    $2.0 billion. Interest on the notes is payable
    semi-annually. The effective interest rate on the
    6.00 percent senior unsecured notes and the
    6.55 percent senior unsecured notes, which incorporates the
    initial discount and debt issuance fees, is 6.13 percent
    and 6.67 percent, respectively. The interest rate payable
    on these notes is not subject to adjustment. The notes generally
    restrict Schering-Plough from creating or assuming liens or
    entering into sale and leaseback transactions unless the
    aggregate outstanding indebtedness secured by any such liens and
    related to any such sale and leaseback transactions does not
    exceed 10 percent of consolidated net tangible assets.
    These notes are redeemable in whole or in part, at
    Schering-Plough s option at any time, at a redemption price
    equal to the greater of (1) 100 percent of the
    principal amount of such notes and (2) the sum of the
    present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal
    and interest discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual
    basis using the rate of Treasury Notes with comparable remaining
    terms plus 25 basis points for the 2017 notes or
    30 basis points for the 2037 notes. If a change of control
    triggering event occurs, as defined in the prospectus, holders
    of the notes will have the right to require Schering-Plough to
    repurchase all or any part of the notes for a cash payment equal
    to 101 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the
    notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to
    the date of purchase.

On October 1, 2007, Schering-Plough issued
    Euro 500 million aggregate principal amount of
    5.00 percent senior unsecured euro-denominated notes due
    2010 and Euro 1.5 billion aggregate principal amount
    of 5.375 percent senior unsecured euro-denominated notes
    due 2014. The net proceeds from this offering were approximately
    $2.8 billion. Interest on the notes is payable annually.
    The effective interest rate on the 5.00 percent senior
    unsecured euro-denominated notes and the 5.375 percent
    senior unsecured euro-denominated notes, which incorporates the
    initial discount, debt issuance fees and the impact of interest
    rate hedges, is 5.10 percent and 5.46 percent,
    respectively. The interest rate payable on these notes is not
    subject to adjustment. The notes generally restrict
    Schering-Plough from creating or assuming liens or entering into
    sale and leaseback transactions unless the aggregate outstanding
    indebtedness secured by any such liens and related to any such
    sale and leaseback transactions does not exceed 10 percent
    of consolidated net tangible assets. These notes are redeemable
    in whole or in part, at Schering-Plough s option at any
    time, at a redemption price specified in the prospectus. If a
    change of control triggering event occurs, as defined in the
    prospectus, holders of the notes will have the right to require
    Schering-Plough to repurchase all or any part of the notes for a
    cash payment equal to 101 percent of the aggregate
    principal amount of the notes repurchased plus accrued and
    unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase.
    Schering-Plough used the net proceeds from these notes to fund a
    portion of the purchase price for the OBS acquisition.

On October 24, 2007, Schering-Plough entered into a
    five-year senior unsecured euro-denominated term loan facility
    with a syndicate of banks. On October 31, 2007,
    Schering-Plough drew Euro 1.1 billion
    ($1.6 billion) on this term loan to fund a portion of the
    purchase price for the OBS acquisition. This new term

45

Table of Contents   

loan has a floating interest rate and requires Schering-Plough
    to maintain a net debt to total capital ratio of no more than
    65 percent through 2009 and 60 percent thereafter, in
    which net debt equals total debt less cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and marketable securities and total
    capital equals the sum of total debt and total
    shareholders  equity excluding the cumulative effect of
    acquired in-process research and development in connection with
    any acquisition consummated after the closing of the term loan.
    The term loan also generally restricts Schering-Plough from
    creating or assuming liens or entering into sale and leaseback
    transactions unless the aggregate outstanding indebtedness
    secured by any such liens and related to any such sale and
    leaseback transactions does not exceed 12 percent of
    consolidated net tangible assets.

The reported U.S. dollar amounts of the outstanding debt
    balance and interest expense on the euro-denominated notes and
    euro-denominated term loan will fluctuate due to the impact of
    foreign currency translation.

On November 26, 2003, Schering-Plough issued
    $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of
    5.3 percent senior unsecured notes due 2013 and
    $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of
    6.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2033. The interest
    rates payable on the notes are subject to adjustment and, in
    connection with ratings downgrades in 2004, on December 1,
    2004, the interest rate payable on the notes due 2013 increased
    from 5.3 percent to 5.55 percent, and the interest
    rate payable on the notes due 2033 increased from
    6.5 percent to 6.75 percent. The interest rate payable
    on a particular series of notes will return to 5.3 percent
    and 6.5 percent, respectively, and the rate adjustment
    provisions will permanently cease to apply if, the notes are
    subsequently rated above Baa1 by Moody s and BBB+ by
    S P. If the rating assigned to the notes by either
    Moody s or S P is downgraded below A3 or A-,
    respectively, the interest rate payable on that series of notes
    would increase. See Note 14,  Borrowings and Other
    Commitments,  under Item 8,  Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data,  for additional information.

On August 9, 2007, Schering-Plough entered into a
    $2.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of
    banks and terminated its $1.5 billion credit facility that
    was due to mature in May 2009. This credit facility has a
    floating interest rate, matures in August 2012 and requires
    Schering-Plough to maintain a net debt to total capital ratio of
    no more than 65 percent through 2009 and 60 percent
    thereafter, in which net debt equals total debt less cash, cash
    equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities
    and total capital equals the sum of total debt and total
    shareholders  equity excluding the cumulative effect of
    acquired in-process research and development in connection with
    any acquisition consummated after the closing of the credit
    facility. The credit facility also generally restricts
    Schering-Plough from creating or assuming liens or entering into
    sale and leaseback transactions unless the aggregate outstanding
    indebtedness secured by any such liens and related to any such
    sale and leaseback transactions does not exceed 12 percent
    of consolidated net tangible assets. This credit line is
    available for general corporate purposes and is considered as
    support to Schering-Plough s commercial paper borrowings.
    Borrowings under this credit facility may be drawn by the
    U.S. parent company or by its wholly-owned international
    subsidiaries when accompanied by a parent guarantee. This
    facility does not require compensating balances, however, a
    nominal commitment fee is paid. As of December 31, 2007, no
    borrowings were outstanding under this facility.

As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, short-term borrowings,
    including the credit facilities mentioned above, totaled
    $451 million and $242 million, respectively, including
    outstanding commercial paper of $149 million as of both
    dates. The weighted-average interest rate for short-term
    borrowings at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was
    7.9 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively.

Schering-Plough s senior unsecured euro-denominated notes
    and euro-denominated term loan have been designated as, and are
    effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation. In accordance with SFAS No. 52,  Foreign
    Currency Translation  (SFAS 52), the foreign currency
    transaction gains or losses on these euro-denominated debt
    instruments are included in foreign currency translation
    adjustment within other comprehensive income.

46

Table of Contents   

Credit
    Ratings   

Schering-Plough s current unsecured senior credit ratings
    and outlook are as follows:

Long-Term 

Senior Unsecured Credit Ratings 

Long-term 

Short-term 

Review Status 

Moody s Investors Service

Baa1

P-2

Stable

Standard and Poor s

A 

A-2

Stable

Fitch Ratings

BBB+

F-2

Stable

The short-term ratings discussed above have not significantly
    affected Schering-Plough s ability to issue or rollover its
    outstanding commercial paper borrowings at this time. However,
    Schering-Plough believes the ability of commercial paper
    issuers, such as Schering-Plough, with one or more short-term
    credit ratings of
     P-2  from
    Moody s,
     A-2  from
    S P
     and/or  F-2
    from Fitch to issue or rollover outstanding commercial paper
    can, at times, be less than that of companies with higher
    short-term credit ratings. In addition, the total amount of
    commercial paper capacity available to these issuers is
    typically less than that of higher-rated companies.
    Schering-Plough s sizable lines of credit with commercial
    banks as well as cash and short-term investments held by
    U.S. and international subsidiaries serve as alternative
    sources of liquidity and to support its commercial paper program.

Schering-Plough s credit ratings could decline below their
    current levels. The impact of such decline could reduce the
    availability of commercial paper borrowing and would increase
    the interest rate on a portion of Schering-Plough s short
    and long-term debt. As discussed above, Schering-Plough believes
    that existing cash and short-term investments, available credit
    facilities and cash generated from operations will allow
    Schering-Plough to fund its cash needs for the intermediate term.

Mandatory
    Convertible Preferred Stock   

On August 15, 2007, Schering-Plough issued
    10,000,000 shares of 6 percent Mandatory
    Convertible Preferred Stock (the 2007 Preferred Stock) with a
    face value of $2.5 billion. Net proceeds to Schering-Plough
    were approximately $2.4 billion after deducting
    commissions, discounts and other underwriting expenses.
    Schering-Plough used the net proceeds from the sale of the 2007
    Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the purchase price for the
    OBS acquisition.

Each share of the 2007 Preferred Stock will automatically
    convert into between 7.4206 and 9.0909 common shares of
    Schering-Plough depending on the average closing price of
    Schering-Plough s common shares over the 20 trading day
    period ending on the third trading day prior to the mandatory
    conversion date of August 13, 2010, as defined in the
    prospectus. The preferred shareholders may elect to convert at
    any time prior to August 13, 2010, at the minimum
    conversion ratio of 7.4206 common shares per share of the 2007
    Preferred Stock. Additionally, if at any time prior to the
    mandatory conversion date the closing price of
    Schering-Plough s common shares exceeds $50.53 (for at
    least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading
    days), Schering-Plough may elect to cause the conversion of all,
    but not less than all, of the 2007 Preferred Stock then
    outstanding at the same minimum conversion ratio of 7.4206
    common shares for each share of 2007 Preferred Stock.

The 2007 Preferred Stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of
    6 percent on shares outstanding. The dividends are
    cumulative from the date of issuance and, to the extent
    Schering-Plough is legally permitted to pay dividends and the
    Board of Directors declares a dividend payable, Schering-Plough
    will pay dividends on each dividend payment date. The dividend
    payment dates are February 15, May 15, August 15 and
    November 15 of each year, with the first dividend to be paid on
    November 15, 2007.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, all shares of
    6 percent Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock issued
    on August 10, 2004 (the 2004 Preferred Stock) were
    converted into 64,584,929 shares of Schering-Plough common
    stock.

47

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Issuance and Treasury Shares   

On August 15, 2007, Schering-Plough issued 57,500,000
    common shares from treasury shares at $27.50 per share. Net
    proceeds to Schering-Plough were approximately $1.5 billion
    after deducting commissions, discounts and other underwriting
    expenses. Schering-Plough used the net proceeds from the sale of
    the common shares to fund a portion of the purchase price for
    the OBS acquisition. See Note 2,  Acquisition, 
    under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data. 

Contractual
    Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

Schering-Plough has various contractual obligations that are
    reported as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and
    others that are not required to be recognized as liabilities
    such as certain purchase commitments and other executory
    contracts. The following table summarizes payments due by period
    under Schering-Plough s known contractual obligations at
    December 31, 2007.

(1)  

Long-term debt obligations include the aggregate principal
    amount of all long-term debt and excludes interest obligations.
    See Note 14,  Borrowings and Other Commitments, 
    under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data,  for additional information. 

(2)  

Purchase obligations include advertising and research contracts,
    capital expenditure commitments and other inventory and expense
    items, and unless material research milestone payments are
    likely to be paid do not include potential milestone payments
    since such payments are contingent on the occurrence of certain
    events. The table also excludes those research contracts that
    are cancelable by Schering-Plough without penalty. Other
    purchase obligations consist of both cancelable and
    non-cancelable items. 

(3)  

This caption includes obligations, based on undiscounted
    amounts, for estimated payments under certain of
    Schering-Plough s pension plans, preferred stock dividends,
    management s estimate of the current portion of
    unrecognized tax benefits and other contractual obligations. 

REGULATORY
    AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH SCHERING-PLOUGH
    OPERATES  

Schering-Plough is subject to the jurisdiction of various
    national, state and local regulatory agencies. These regulations
    are described in more detail in Part I, Item I,
    Business, of this
     10-K. 
    Regulatory compliance is complex, as regulatory standards
    (including Good Clinical Practices, Good Laboratory Practices
    and Good Manufacturing Practices) vary by jurisdiction and are
    constantly evolving. Regulatory compliance is also costly.
    Regulatory compliance also impacts the timing needed to bring
    new drugs to market and to market drugs for new indications.
    Further, failure to comply with regulations can result in delays
    in the approval of drugs, seizure or recall of drugs, suspension
    or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and
    sale of drugs, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions.

48

Table of Contents   

Regulatory compliance, and the cost of compliance failures, can
    have a material impact on Schering-Plough s results of
    operations, its cash flows or financial condition.

Much is still unknown about the science of human health and with
    every drug there are benefits and risks. Societal and government
    pressures are constantly shifting between the demand for
    innovation to meet urgent unmet medical needs and adversity to
    risk. These pressures impact the regulatory environment and the
    market for Schering-Plough s products.

Regulatory
    Compliance and Pharmacovigilance  

Consent
    Decree   

On August 2, 2007, Schering-Plough announced the
    dissolution of the Consent Decree by the U.S. District
    Court for the District of New Jersey. See Note 19,
     Consent Decree,  under Item 1,  Financial
    Statements. 

Regulatory
    Inspections  

Schering-Plough is subject to pharmacovigilance reporting
    requirements in many countries and other jurisdictions,
    including the U.S., the EU, and the EU member states. The
    requirements differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but all
    include requirements for reporting adverse events that occur
    while a patient is using a particular drug, in order to alert
    the drug s manufacturer and the governmental agency to
    potential problems.

During 2003, pharmacovigilance inspections by officials of the
    British and French medicines agencies conducted at the request
    of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) cited serious
    deficiencies in reporting processes. Schering-Plough has
    continued to work on its long-term action plan to rectify the
    deficiencies and has provided regular updates to the EMEA.

During the fourth quarter 2005, local UK and EMEA regulatory
    authorities conducted a follow up inspection to assess
    Schering-Plough s implementation of its action plan. In the
    first quarter of 2006, these authorities also inspected the
     U.S.-based 
    components of Schering-Plough s pharmacovigilance system.
    The inspectors acknowledged that progress had been made since
    2003, but also continued to note significant concerns with the
    quality systems supporting Schering-Plough s
    pharmacovigilance processes. Similarly, in a follow up
    inspection of Schering-Plough s clinical trial practices in
    the UK, inspectors identified issues with respect to
    Schering-Plough s management of clinical trials and related
    pharmacovigilance practices.

In February 2006, Schering-Plough began the Global Clinical
    Harmonization Program for building clinical excellence (in trial
    design, execution and tracking), which will strengthen
    Schering-Plough s scientific and compliance rigor on a
    global basis. In 2007, certain aspects of the Global Clinical
    Harmonization Program were implemented and work is expected to
    continue in 2008 and for several years. In addition, during the
    fourth quarter 2007, the local UK regulatory authority conducted
    a  follow-up 
    inspection which confirmed that the corrective actions committed
    to by Schering-Plough following the 2006 inspection of
    Schering-Plough s UK-based clinical trial operations had in
    fact been completed. In early January 2008, the local UK
    regulatory authority returned for a
     follow-up 
    inspection of Schering-Plough s UK-pharmacovigilance
    operations. This inspection likewise confirmed that a number of
    corrective actions had been completed since the last inspection
    and noted the number of actions Schering-Plough had taken as set
    forth in Schering-Plough s periodic updates to the EMEA and
    noted a limited number of observations which Schering-Plough is
    addressing. Schering-Plough intends to continue upgrading
    skills, processes and systems in clinical practices and
    pharmacovigilance. Schering-Plough remains committed to
    accomplish this work and to invest significant resources in this
    area.

Schering-Plough does not know what action, if any, the EMEA or
    national authorities will take in response to the inspections.
    Possible actions include further inspections, demands for
    improvements in reporting systems, criminal sanctions against
    Schering- Plough
     and/or 
    responsible individuals and changes in the conditions of
    marketing authorizations for Schering-Plough s products.

49

Table of Contents   

Regulatory
    Compliance and Post-Marketing Surveillance   

Schering-Plough engages in clinical trial research in many
    countries around the world. These clinical trial research
    activities must comply with stringent regulatory standards and
    are subject to inspection by U.S., EU and local country
    regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with current Good
    Clinical Practices or other applicable laws or regulations can
    result in delays in approval of clinical trials, suspension of
    ongoing clinical trials, delays in approval of marketing
    authorizations, criminal sanctions against Schering-Plough
     and/or 
    responsible individuals, and changes in the conditions of
    marketing authorizations for Schering-Plough s products.

Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain
    marketed drugs of competitors within the industry have raised
    safety concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse
    labeling of marketed products. In addition, these situations
    have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients
    relating to the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products
    in general. For the past several years, these occurrences have
    increased. Recently media mischaracterization of early topline
    results from the ENHANCE clinical trail led to some concerns
    among patients and prescribers about ZETIA and VYTORIN (see
    discussion under  Early 2008 Developments  in the
    Executive Summary of this Management Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations).

Schering-Plough s personnel have regular, open dialogue
    with the FDA and other regulators and review product labels and
    other materials on a regular basis and as new information
    becomes known.

Following this wave of recent product withdrawals by other
    companies and other significant safety issues, health
    authorities such as the FDA, the EMEA and the PMDA have
    continued to increase their focus on safety when assessing the
    benefit/risk balance of drugs. Some health authorities appear to
    have become more cautious when making decisions about
    approvability of new products or indications and are
    re-reviewing select products which are already marketed, adding
    further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. There
    is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the U.S., on
    advertising and promotion and in particular direct-to-consumer
    advertising.

Similarly, major health authorities, including the FDA, EMEA and
    PMDA, have also increased collaboration amongst themselves,
    especially with regard to the evaluation of safety and
    benefit/risk information. Media attention has also increased. In
    the current environment, a health authority regulatory action in
    one market, such as a safety labeling change, may have
    regulatory, prescribing and marketing implications in other
    markets to an extent not previously seen.

Some health authorities, such as the PMDA in Japan, have
    publicly acknowledged a significant backlog in workload due to
    resource constraints within their agency. This backlog has
    caused long regulatory review times for new indications and
    products and has added to the uncertainty in predicting approval
    timelines in these markets. While the PMDA has committed to
    correcting the backlog and has made some progress over the last
    year, it is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.

These and other uncertainties inherent in government regulatory
    approval processes, including, among other things, delays in
    approval of new products, formulations or indications, may also
    affect Schering-Plough s operations. The effect of
    regulatory approval processes on operations cannot be predicted.

Schering-Plough has nevertheless achieved a significant number
    of important regulatory approvals since 2004, including
    approvals for VYTORIN, NOXAFIL, CLARINEX D-24, CLARINEX
    REDITABS, CLARINEX D-12, SUBOXONE and new indications for
    TEMODAR and NASONEX. Other significant approvals since 2004
    include ASMANEX DPI (Dry Powder for Inhalation) in the U.S.,
    PEGINTRON, ZETIA, TEMODAR and ESMERON/ESLAX in Japan, and new
    indications for REMICADE. Schering-Plough also has a number of
    significant regulatory submissions filed in major markets
    awaiting approval.

Pricing
    Pressures   

As described more specifically in Note 20,  Legal,
    Environmental and Regulatory Matters,  under Item 1,
     Financial Statements,  the pricing, sales and
    marketing programs and arrangements, and related business

50

Table of Contents   

practices of Schering-Plough and other participants in the
    health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal
    and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and
    administrative entities. These entities include the Department
    of Justice and its U.S. Attorney s Offices, the Office
    of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and
    various state Attorneys General offices. Many of the health care
    laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate,
    including the federal and state anti-kickback statutes and
    statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed
    broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to
    exercise significant discretion. In the event that any of those
    governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one
    or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings,
    which, if instituted and resolved unfavorably, could subject
    Schering-Plough to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive
    or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government
    reimbursement programs. Schering-Plough also cannot predict
    whether any investigations will affect its marketing practices
    or sales. Any such result could have a material adverse impact
    on Schering-Plough s results of operations, cash flows,
    financial condition, or its business.

In the U.S., many of Schering-Plough s pharmaceutical
    products are subject to increasingly competitive pricing as
    managed care groups, institutions, government agencies and other
    groups seek price discounts. In the U.S. market,
    Schering-Plough and other pharmaceutical manufacturers are
    required to provide statutorily defined rebates to various
    government agencies in order to participate in Medicaid, the
    veterans health care program and other government-funded
    programs. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
    Modernization Act of 2003 contains a prescription drug benefit
    for individuals who are eligible for Medicare. This prescription
    drug benefit became effective on January 1, 2006 and is
    resulting in increased use of generics and increased purchasing
    power of those negotiating on behalf of Medicare recipients.

In most international markets, Schering-Plough operates in an
    environment of government mandated cost-containment programs.
    Several governments have placed restrictions on physician
    prescription levels and patient reimbursements; emphasized
    greater use of generic drugs; and enacted across-the-board price
    cuts as methods to control costs.

Since Schering-Plough is unable to predict the final form and
    timing of any future domestic or international governmental or
    other health care initiatives, including the passage of laws
    permitting the importation of pharmaceuticals into the U.S.,
    their effect on operations and cash flows cannot be reasonably
    estimated. Similarly, the effect on operations and cash flows of
    decisions of government entities, managed care groups and other
    groups concerning formularies and pharmaceutical reimbursement
    policies cannot be reasonably estimated.

Competition   

The market for pharmaceutical products is competitive.
    Schering-Plough s operations may be affected by
    technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation,
    patents granted to competitors, competitive combination
    products, new products of competitors, new information from
    clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing
    surveillance and generic competition as Schering-Plough s
    products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly
    being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly
    uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude
    commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of
    existing products. The effect on operations of competitive
    factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted.

2008
    OUTLOOK  

Schering-Plough does not provide numeric guidance. However, the
    following outlook may be helpful to readers in assessing future
    prospects:

See the earlier discussion of matters relating to the
    Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture s ENHANCE
    clinical trial. IMS prescription data (U.S.) shows that, to date
    in 2008, prescriptions for VYTORIN and ZETIA have declined.
    Although the prescription data has shown some early signs of
    stabilization, there are limitations to this prescription data
    and it is too early to discern any trends from this data. It is
    likely that there will be weekly fluctuations in IMS reported
    prescription volumes for VYTORIN and ZETIA before any

51

Table of Contents   

trend can be identified. Wholesalers, retail chains and other
    trade buyers may respond to these fluctuations by changing their
    buying patterns or reducing their inventory levels.

It is too early to determine the business and financial impact
    of these lower prescription volumes for 2008 or longer-term.
    However, first quarter 2008 Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol
    joint venture sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA in the U.S. will
    likely be negatively impacted. Schering-Plough accounts for the
    joint venture under the equity method.

Schering-Plough has been successful in advancing several
    research and development projects into their late stage. These
    projects will require sizable resources to complete. Research
    and development expenses are expected to continue to increase
    over the next several years as a result of the expanded
    pipeline, the pipeline projects added through the OBS
    acquisition and the need for larger, more frequent, and longer
    clinical trials in the current global regulatory environment.

The risks described in Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
    could cause actual results to differ materially from the
    expectations provided in this section.

IMPACT OF
    RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements.  The standard defines fair
    value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
    accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and
    expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The standard
    codifies the definition of fair value as the price that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants at the
    measurement date. The standard clarifies the principle that fair
    value should be based on the assumptions market participants
    would use when pricing the asset or liability and establishes a
    fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to
    develop those assumptions. For calendar year companies the
    standard is effective beginning January 1, 2008 except for
    non-financial items measured on a non-recurring basis for which
    it is effective beginning January 1, 2009. Based on
    Schering-Plough s current financial position the impact of
    this standard on the consolidated financial statements is not
    expected to be material.

In November 2006, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force
    Issue (EITF)
     No. 06-10, 
     Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement
    Benefits Aspects of Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life
    Insurance Arrangements,  which is effective for calendar
    year companies on January 1, 2008. The Task Force concluded
    that an employer should recognize a liability for the
    postretirement benefit related to a collateral assignment
    split-dollar life insurance arrangement in accordance with
    either FASB Statement No. 106 or APB Opinion No. 12
    based on the substantive agreement with the employee. The Task
    Force also concluded that an employer should recognize and
    measure an asset based on the nature and substance of the
    collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement.
    The impact of this standard on the consolidated financial
    statements is not expected to be material.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities-Including an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 115  (SFAS 159), which permits entities to
    choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
    items at fair value. SFAS 159 also includes an amendment to
    SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments
    in Debt and Equity Securities,  which applies to all
    entities with available-for-sale and trading securities. This
    statement is effective as of the beginning of an entity s
    first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007.
    Based on Schering-Plough s current financial position the
    impact of this standard on the consolidated financial statements
    is not expected to be material.

In June 2007, the FASB issued EITF Issue
     No. 07-3, 
     Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development
    Activities,  which is effective for calendar year companies
    on January 1, 2008. The Task Force concluded that
    nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will
    be used or rendered for future research and development
    activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts
    should be recognized as an expense as the related goods are

52

Table of Contents   

delivered or the services are performed, or when the goods or
    services are no longer expected to be provided. The impact of
    this standard on the consolidated financial statements is not
    expected to be material.

In December 2007, the FASB issued EITF Issue
     No. 07-1, 
     Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements,  which is
    effective for calendar year companies on January 1, 2009.
    The Task Force clarified the manner in which costs, revenues and
    sharing payments made to, or received by a partner in a
    collaborative arrangements should be presented in the income
    statement and set forth certain disclosures that should be
    required in the partners  financial statements.
    Schering-Plough is currently assessing the potential impacts of
    implementing this standard.

In December 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB 110), which permits
    entities, under certain circumstances, to continue to use the
     simplified  method of estimating the expected term of
    plain vanilla options as discussed in SAB No. 107 and
    in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payment.  The guidance in this release is
    effective January 1, 2008. The impact of this standard on
    the consolidated financial statements is not expected to be
    material.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations.  For calendar
    year companies, the standard is applicable to new business
    combinations occurring on or after January 1, 2009.
    SFAS 141 (R) requires an acquiring entity to recognize
    all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction
    at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. Most
    significantly, SFAS 141 (R) will require that
    acquisition costs generally be expensed as incurred, certain
    acquired contingent liabilities will be recorded at fair value,
    and acquired in-process research and development will be
    recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset
    at the acquisition date. The standard will also impact certain
    unresolved matters related to purchase transactions consummated
    prior to the effective date of the standard. Schering-Plough is
    currently assessing the potential impacts of implementing this
    standard.

In December 2007, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51, 
    which is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within
    those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15,
    2008. The standard establishes new accounting and reporting
    standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and
    for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Schering-Plough is
    currently assessing the potential impacts of implementing this
    standard.

CRITICAL
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The following accounting policies and estimates are considered
    significant because changes to certain judgments and assumptions
    inherent in these policies could affect Schering-Plough s
    financial statements:

Revenue Recognition

Rebates, Discounts and Returns

Provision for Income Taxes

Acquisitions and Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible Assets and
    Property

Accounting for Pensions and Post-retirement Benefit Plans

Accounting for Legal and Regulatory Matters

Revenue
    Recognition   

Schering-Plough s pharmaceutical products are sold to
    direct purchasers, which include wholesalers, retailers and
    certain health maintenance organizations. Price discounts and
    rebates on such sales are paid to federal and state agencies,
    other indirect purchasers and other market participants such as
    managed care organizations that indemnify beneficiaries of
    health plans for their pharmaceutical costs and pharmacy benefit
    managers.

53

Table of Contents   

Schering-Plough recognizes revenue when title and risk of loss
    pass to the purchaser and when reliable estimates of the
    following can be determined:

i. commercial discount and rebate arrangements;

ii. rebate obligations under certain federal and state
    governmental programs; and

iii. sales returns in the normal course of business.

When recognizing revenue, Schering-Plough estimates and records
    the applicable commercial and governmental discounts and rebates
    as well as sales returns that have been or are expected to be
    granted or made for products sold during the period. These
    amounts are deducted from sales for that period. If reliable
    estimates of these items cannot be made; Schering-Plough defers
    the recognition of revenue. Estimates recorded in prior periods
    are re-evaluated as part of this process.

Revenue recognition for new products is based on specific facts
    and circumstances including estimated acceptance rates from
    established products with similar marketing characteristics.
    Absent the ability to make reliable estimates of rebates,
    discounts and returns, Schering-Plough would defer revenue
    recognition.

Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements
    with wholesalers, managed-care organizations and government
    purchasers and certain other market conditions. Rebates are
    estimated based on sales and contract terms, historical
    experience, trend analysis and projected market conditions in
    the various markets served. Schering-Plough evaluates market
    conditions for products or groups of products primarily through
    the analysis of third party demand and market research data as
    well as internally generated information. Data and information
    provided by purchasers and obtained from third parties are
    subject to inherent limitations as to their accuracy and
    validity.

Sales returns are estimated and recorded based on historical
    sales and returns information, analysis of recent wholesale
    purchase information, consideration of stocking levels at
    wholesalers and forecasted demand amounts. Products that exhibit
    unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition
    including expected generic introductions, or other marketing
    matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part of
    the formulation of return reserves.

Schering-Plough s agreements with the major
    U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers address a number of
    commercial issues, such as product returns, timing of payment,
    processing of chargebacks and the quantity of inventory held by
    these wholesalers. With respect to the quantity of inventory
    held by these wholesalers, these agreements provide a financial
    disincentive for these wholesalers to acquire quantities of
    product in excess of what is necessary to meet current patient
    demand. Through the use of these agreements, Schering-Plough
    expects to avoid situations where Schering-Plough s
    shipments of product are not reflective of current demand.

Rebates,
    Discounts and Returns   

Schering-Plough s rebate accruals for Federal and State
    governmental programs, including Medicaid and Medicare
    Part D, at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were
    $114 million and $115 million, respectively.
    Commercial discounts, returns, and other rebate accruals at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $412 million and
    $371 million, respectively. These accruals are established
    in the period the related revenue was recognized, resulting in a
    reduction to sales and the establishment of liabilities, which
    are included in total current liabilities, or in the case of
    returns and other receivable adjustments, an allowance provided
    against accounts receivable.

In the case of the governmental rebate programs,
    Schering-Plough s payments involve interpretations of
    relevant statutes and regulations. These interpretations are
    subject to challenges and changes in interpretive guidance by
    governmental authorities. The result of such a challenge or
    change could affect whether the estimated governmental rebate
    amounts are ultimately sufficient to satisfy
    Schering-Plough s obligations. Additional information on
    governmental inquiries focused in part on the calculation of
    rebates is contained in Note 20,  Legal, Environmental
    and Regulatory Matters,  under Item 8,  Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data . In addition, it is
    possible that, as a result of governmental challenges or changes
    in interpretive guidance, actual rebates could materially exceed
    amounts accrued.

54

Table of Contents   

The following summarizes the activity in the accounts related to
    accrued rebates, sales returns and discounts:

(1)  

For the year ended December 31, 2006, the adjustment to
    prior-year estimates for rebates includes $24 million
    related to the reversal of previously accrued rebate amounts
    recorded in 2005 and 2004 for the U.S. Government s TRICARE
    Retail Pharmacy Program that a U.S. Federal Court ruled
    pharmaceutical manufacturers were not obligated to pay. 

In formulating and recording the above accruals, management
    utilizes assumptions and estimates that include historical
    experience, wholesaler data, the projection of market
    conditions, the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a
    rebate, utilization estimates, and forecasted product demand
    amounts as discussed under the critical accounting policy
    entitled  Revenue Recognition. 

As part of its review of these accruals, management performs a
    sensitivity analysis that considers differing assumptions, which
    are most subject to judgment in its rebate accrual calculation.
    Based upon Schering-Plough s sensitivity analysis,
    reasonably possible changes to assumptions related to rebate
    accruals could favorably or unfavorably impact 2008 net
    sales and income before taxes in an amount consistent with 2007.

Provision
    for Income Taxes   

Schering-Plough implemented the provisions of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes,  (FIN 48) as of January 1,
    2007. As required by FIN 48, the cumulative effect of
    applying the provisions of the Interpretation was reported as an
    adjustment to Schering-Plough s retained earnings balance
    as of January 1, 2007. Schering-Plough reduced its
    January 1, 2007 retained earnings by $259 million as a
    result of the adoption of FIN 48.

Schering-Plough s unrecognized tax benefits result
    primarily from the varying application of statutes, regulations
    and interpretations and include exposures on intercompany terms
    of cross border arrangements and utilization of cash held by
    foreign subsidiaries (investment in U.S. property) as well
    as Schering-Plough s tax matters litigation (see
    Note 20,  Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
    Matters ). At January 1, and December 31, 2007,
    the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was
    $924 million and $859 million, respectively, which
    includes reductions to deferred tax assets carrying a full
    valuation allowance, potential refund claims and tax
    liabilities. At January 1, and December 31, 2007,
    approximately $645 million and $535 million,
    respectively, of total unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized,
    would affect the effective tax rate. Management believes it is
    reasonably possible that total unrecognized tax benefits could
    decrease over the

55

Table of Contents   

next twelve-month period by up to $615 million. This
    decrease would be primarily attributable to a decision in the
    tax matter currently being litigated in Newark District Court,
    possible final resolution of the taxpayer s
    1997   2002 examination at IRS Appeals and possible
    resolutions of various other matters. However, the timing of the
    ultimate resolution of Schering-Plough s tax matters and
    the payment
     and/or 
    receipt of related cash is dependent on a number of factors,
    many of which are outside Schering-Plough s control.

Schering-Plough includes interest expense or income as well as
    potential penalties on uncertain tax positions as a component of
    income tax expense in the Statement of Consolidated Operations.
    The total amount of accrued interest related to uncertain tax
    positions at January 1, and December 31, 2007 was
    $193 million and $197 million, respectively, and is
    included in other accrued liabilities.

Schering-Plough records a valuation allowance to reduce its
    deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not
    to be realized. Schering-Plough has considered ongoing prudent
    and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a
    valuation allowance. In the event Schering-Plough were to
    determine that it would be able to realize all or an additional
    portion of its net deferred tax assets, an adjustment to the
    valuation allowance would increase income in the period such
    determination is made. Likewise, should Schering-Plough
    subsequently determine that it would not be able to realize all
    or an additional portion of its remaining net deferred tax asset
    in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be
    charged to income in the period such determination was made.

Acquisitions
    and Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible Assets and
    Property   

Schering-Plough accounts for acquired businesses using the
    purchase method of accounting which requires that the assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of
    acquisition at their respective fair values. The consolidated
    financial statements and results of operations reflect an
    acquired business after the completion of the acquisition. The
    cost to acquire a business, including transaction costs, is
    allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired business
    based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the
    purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets
    acquired is recorded as goodwill. Amounts allocated to acquired
    in-process research and development are expensed at the date of
    acquisition. Intangible assets are amortized based on sales over
    the expected life of the asset. The judgments made in
    determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives,
    can materially impact results of operations. Useful lives are
    determined based on the expected future period of benefit of the
    asset, which considers various characteristics of the asset,
    including projected cash flows.

Intangible assets representing the capitalized costs of
    purchased goodwill, patents, licenses and other forms of
    intellectual property totaled $9.9 billion at
    December 31, 2007. Intangible assets and goodwill increased
    significantly during 2007 due to the acquisition of OBS. Annual
    amortization expense in each of the next five years is estimated
    to be approximately $570 million per year based on the
    intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2007. The
    value of these assets is subject to continuing scientific,
    medical and marketplace uncertainty. For example, if a marketed
    pharmaceutical product were to be withdrawn from the market for
    safety reasons or if marketing of a product could only occur
    with pronounced warnings, amounts capitalized for such a product
    may need to be reduced due to impairment. Events giving rise to
    impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry
    and cannot be predicted. Management regularly reviews intangible
    assets for possible impairment.

Certain of Schering-Plough s manufacturing sites operate
    below capacity. Overall costs of operating manufacturing sites
    have significantly increased due to the Consent Decree and other
    compliance activities. Schering-Plough s manufacturing cost
    base is relatively fixed. Actions on the part of management to
    significantly reduce Schering-Plough s manufacturing
    infrastructure involve complex issues. As a result, shifting
    products between manufacturing plants can take many years due to
    construction and regulatory requirements, including revalidation
    and registration requirements. Management continues to review
    the carrying value of certain manufacturing assets for
    indications of impairment. Future events and decisions may lead
    to additional asset impairments
     and/or 
    related costs.

56

Table of Contents   

Accounting
    for Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Plans   

Pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for
    financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial
    assumptions. Schering-Plough assesses its pension and other
    post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. In
    evaluating these assumptions, Schering-Plough considers many
    factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected
    rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate,
    retirement age assumption, Schering-Plough s historical
    assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current
    market conditions and asset allocations (see Note 8,
     Retirement Plans and Other Post-retirement Benefits, 
    under Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data,  for additional information).

Discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement
    benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to
    reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a
    high-quality fixed income debt instrument portfolio that would
    provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits
    included in the benefit obligations as they come due. In
    countries where debt instruments are thinly traded, estimates
    are based on available market rates.

Actuarial assumptions are based upon management s best
    estimates and judgment. With other assumptions held constant, an
    increase of 50 basis points in the discount rate would have
    an estimated favorable impact of $43 million on net pension
    and post-retirement benefit cost and an increase of
    50 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption
    would have an estimated favorable impact of $17 million on
    net pension and post-retirement benefit cost. With other
    assumptions held constant, a decrease of 50 basis points in
    the discount rate would have an estimated unfavorable impact of
    $41 million on net pension and post-retirement benefit cost
    and a decrease of 50 basis points in the expected rate of
    return assumption would have an estimated unfavorable impact of
    $17 million on net pension and post-retirement benefit
    cost. These sensitivities are based on estimated net pension and
    post-retirement benefit cost in 2008 which includes the annual
    impact of OBS  plans.

The expected rates of return for the pension and other
    post-retirement benefit plans represent the average rates of
    return to be earned on plan assets over the period during which
    the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid.
    In developing the expected rate of return, Schering-Plough
    determines expected returns for each of the major asset classes,
    principally equities, fixed income and real estate. The return
    expectations for these asset classes are based on assumptions
    for economic growth and inflation, which are supported by
    long-term historical data as well as Schering-Plough s
    actual experience of return on plan assets. The expected
    portfolio performance also reflects the contribution of active
    management as appropriate.

Unrecognized net loss amounts reflect experience differentials
    primarily relating to differences between expected and actual
    returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in
    actuarial assumptions. Expected returns are based primarily on a
    calculated market-related value of assets. Under this
    methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns
    that differ from Schering-Plough s expected returns for the
    majority of the assets are realized in the market-related value
    of assets ratably over a five-year period. Total unrecognized
    net loss amounts in excess of certain thresholds are amortized
    into net pension and other post-retirement benefit cost over the
    average remaining service life of employees.

The targeted investment portfolio of Schering-Plough s
    U.S. Retirement Plan is allocated 65 percent to
    equities; 28 percent to fixed income investments; and
    7 percent to real estate. The targeted investment portfolio
    of Schering-Plough s U.S. other post-retirement
    benefit plan is allocated 70 percent to equities and
    30 percent to fixed income investments. The
    portfolios  equity weightings are consistent with the
    long-term nature of the plans  benefit obligations. For
     non-U.S. pension 
    plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the
    duration of pension liabilities and local governmental rules and
    regulations.

Substantially all investments in equities and fixed income are
    valued based on quoted public market values. All investments in
    real estate are valued based on periodic appraisals.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans,  an amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R. Effective
    December 31, 2006, Schering-Plough accounts for its
    retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans in accordance
    with SFAS No. 158. Shareholders  equity at
    December 31, 2006, was reduced by

57

Table of Contents   

approximately 7 percent upon the adoption of
    SFAS No. 158. See Note 8,  Retirement Plans
    and Other Post-Retirement Benefits,  under Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplemental Data,  for
    additional information. SFAS 158 allows an extended
    adoption date for the requirement to have Schering-Plough s
    year-end date as the measurement date for all defined benefit
    pension and other postretirement plans. For the plans which had
    measurement dates other than year-end prior to the adoption of
    SFAS 158, Schering-Plough adopted the year-end measurement
    date effective with 2007. The impact on the consolidated
    financial statements related to this measurement date change was
    not material.

Accounting
    for Legal and Regulatory Matters   

Management judgments and estimates are required in the
    accounting for legal and regulatory matters on an ongoing basis
    including insurance coverages. Schering-Plough reviews the
    status of all claims, investigations and legal proceedings on an
    ongoing basis. From time to time, Schering-Plough may settle or
    otherwise resolve these matters on terms and conditions
    management believes are in the best interests of
    Schering-Plough. Resolution of any or all claims, investigations
    and legal proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, could
    have a material adverse effect on Schering-Plough s results
    of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

MARKET
    RISK DISCLOSURE  

Schering-Plough is exposed to market risk primarily from changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, from
    interest rates and equity prices. The following describes the
    nature of these risks.

Foreign
    Currency Exchange Risk   

Schering-Plough has subsidiaries in more than 55 countries. In
    2007, sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately
    64 percent of global sales. Virtually all these sales were
    denominated in currencies of the local country. As such,
    Schering-Plough s reported profits and cash flows are
    exposed to changing exchange rates.

To date, management has not deemed it cost effective to engage
    in a formula-based program of hedging the profits and cash flows
    of international operations using derivative financial
    instruments. Because Schering-Plough s international
    subsidiaries purchase significant quantities of inventory
    payable in U.S. dollars, managing the level of inventory
    and related payables and the rate of inventory turnover can
    provide a level of protection against adverse changes in
    exchange rates. The risk of adverse exchange rate change is also
    mitigated by the fact that Schering-Plough s international
    operations are widespread.

In addition, at any point in time, Schering-Plough s
    international subsidiaries hold financial assets and liabilities
    that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars.
    These financial assets and liabilities consist primarily of
    short-term, third-party and intercompany receivables and
    payables. Changes in exchange rates affect the translated value
    of these financial assets and liabilities. Gains or losses that
    arise from translation do not affect net income.

On occasion, Schering-Plough has used derivatives to hedge
    specific foreign currency exposures. During 2007, as part of an
    overall risk management strategy and in consideration of various
    preliminary financing scenarios associated with the acquisition
    of OBS, Schering-Plough purchased euro-denominated currency
    options to mitigate its exposure in the event there was a
    significant strengthening in the Euro as compared to the
    U.S. Dollar. Schering-Plough purchased the options for
    aggregate premiums of approximately $165 million and
    received proceeds of $675 million upon the termination of
    these options, resulting in a net realized gain of
    $510 million. These derivatives did not qualify for hedge
    accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities,  as amended (SFAS 133). Accordingly, the
    gain on these derivatives was recognized in the Statement of
    Consolidated Operations. As of December 31, 2007, there
    were no open foreign currency option contracts.

Schering-Plough s senior unsecured euro-denominated notes
    and euro-denominated term loan have been designated as, and are
    effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation. In accordance with SFAS 52, the foreign currency
    transaction gains or losses on these euro-denominated debt
    instruments are included in foreign currency translation
    adjustment within other comprehensive income.

58

Table of Contents   

Interest
    Rate and Equity Price Risk   

Financial assets exposed to changes in interest rates
     and/or 
    equity prices are primarily cash equivalents, short-term
    investments and the debt and equity securities held in qualified
    and non-qualified trusts for employee benefits. These assets
    totaled more than $2.3 billion at December 31, 2007.
    For cash equivalents and short-term investments, a
    10 percent decrease in interest rates would decrease
    interest income by approximately $36 million. For
    securities held in qualified and non-qualified trusts, due to
    the long-term nature of the liabilities that these trust assets
    will fund, Schering-Plough s exposure to market risk is
    deemed to be low.

Financial obligations exposed to variability in interest rates
    are primarily short-term borrowings and the long-term
    floating-rate euro-denominated term loan.

Schering-Plough has long-term fixed rate debt outstanding, on
    which a 10 percent decrease in interest rates would
    increase the fair value of the debt by approximately
    $256 million.

During 2007, Schering-Plough executed a series of interest rate
    swaps in anticipation of financing the acquisition of OBS. The
    objective of the swaps was to hedge the interest rate payments
    to be made on future issuances of debt. As such, the swaps were
    designated as cash flow hedges of future interest payments, and
    in accordance with SFAS 133, the effective portion of the
    gains or losses on the hedges are reported in other
    comprehensive income and any ineffective portion is reported in
    operations. In connection with the euro-denominated debt
    issuances as described in Note 14,  Borrowings and
    Other Commitments,  under Item 8,  Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data,  portions of the swaps
    were deemed ineffective and Schering-Plough recognized a
    $7 million loss in the Statement of Consolidated
    Operations. The effective portion of the swaps of
    $12 million was recorded in other comprehensive income and
    is being recognized as interest expense over the life of the
    related debt. As of December 31, 2007, there were no open
    interest rate swaps.

Disclosure
    Notice  

Cautionary
    Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations and other sections of this report and
    other written reports and oral statements made from time to time
    by Schering-Plough may contain forward-looking statements within
    the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to
    historical or current facts and are based on current
    expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify
    these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as
     anticipate,   believe,   could, 
     estimate,   expect,   forecast, 
     project,   intend,   plan, 
     potential,   will,  and other similar words
    and terms. In particular, forward-looking statements include
    statements relating to future actions, ability to access the
    capital markets, pending acquisitions, prospective products or
    product approvals, timing and conditions of regulatory
    approvals, patent and other intellectual property protection,
    future performance or effectiveness of marketed products and
    pipeline drugs, trends in performance including trends in the
    cholesterol market, sales efforts, research and development
    programs and anticipated spending, estimates of rebates,
    discounts and returns, expenses and programs to reduce expenses,
    the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and
    investigations, growth strategy, expected synergies and
    financial results.

Any or all forward-looking statements here or in other
    publications may turn out to be wrong. There are no guarantees
    about Schering-Plough s financial and operational
    performance or the performance of Schering-Plough s stock.
    Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any
    forward-looking statement. Many factors could cause actual
    results to differ from Schering-Plough s forward-looking
    statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a
    broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some
    that are known and some that are not. Although it is not
    possible to predict or identify all such factors,
    Schering-Plough refers you to Item 1A,  Risk
    Factors,  of this report, which we incorporate herein by
    reference, for identification of important factors with respect
    to risks and uncertainties.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

See the Market Risk Disclosures as set forth in Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations. 

59

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to
    Financial Statements  

60

Table of Contents   

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

STATEMENTS
    OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS 

(Amounts
    in millions, except per share figures)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

61

Table of Contents   

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

STATEMENTS
    OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS 

(Amounts
    in millions)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

62

Table of Contents   

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS 

(Amounts
    in millions, except per share figures)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

63

Table of Contents   

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY 
     (Amounts in millions) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

64

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

1.    

SUMMARY
    OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Overview   

Schering-Plough is an innovation-driven, science-centered global
    health care company. Through its own biopharmaceutical research
    and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough creates
    therapies that help save and improve lives around the world.
    Schering-Plough applies its
     research-and-development 
    platform to human prescription and consumer products as well as
    to animal health products.

In November 2007, Schering-Plough acquired Organon BioSciences
    N.V. (OBS), a company that discovers, develops and manufactures
    human prescription and animal health products. See Note 2,
     Acquisitions,   for additional information.

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements include Schering-Plough
    Corporation and its subsidiaries (Schering-Plough). Intercompany
    balances and transactions are eliminated. The accounts of OBS
    have been included as part of Schering-Plough s results
    from the date of acquisition (November 19, 2007).

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the
    U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
    the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis,
    Schering-Plough evaluates its estimates which are based on
    historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
    believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
    results could differ from those estimates.

Equity
    Method of Accounting   

Schering-Plough accounts for its share of activity from the
    Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture (the joint venture) with
    Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck) using the equity method of
    accounting as Schering-Plough has significant influence over the
    joint venture s operating and financial policies.
    Accordingly, Schering-Plough s net sales do not include
    sales from the joint venture, and Schering-Plough s share
    of earnings in the joint venture is included in equity income in
    determining consolidated net income/(loss). Equity income from
    the joint venture is included in the Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals segment.

Revenue from the sales of VYTORIN and ZETIA are recognized by
    the joint venture when title and risk of loss has passed to the
    customer. Equity income from the joint venture excludes any
    profit arising from transactions between Schering-Plough and the
    joint venture until such time as there is an underlying profit
    realized by the joint venture in a transaction with a party
    other than Schering-Plough or Merck. See Note 4,
     Equity Income,  for additional information regarding
    this joint venture.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

Cash and cash equivalents include operating cash and highly
    liquid investments with original maturities of three months or
    less, including highly-rated money market accounts.

Short-term
    Investments   

Short-term investments are carried at their fair value and are
    classified as available-for-sale. These investments consist of
    certificates of deposit and commercial paper with maturities of
    less than a year.

65

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Inventories   

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
    determined by using the
     last-in, 
    first-out (LIFO) method for a substantial portion of inventories
    located in the U.S. The cost of all other inventories is
    determined by the
     first-in, 
    first-out method (FIFO).

Depreciation
    of Property and Equipment   

Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the
    properties, generally by use of the straight-line method.

Useful lives of new property acquisitions are generally as
    follows:

Schering-Plough reviews the carrying value of property and
    equipment for indications of impairment in accordance with
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) 144,
     Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets. 

Depreciation expense was $404 million in 2007,
    $443 million in 2006 and $362 million in 2005.
    Depreciation expense in 2006 included accelerated depreciation
    related to the manufacturing streamlining of $93 million.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

The net assets of most of Schering-Plough s international
    subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current
    exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from
    translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing
    rates are recorded in the foreign currency translation account,
    which is included in other comprehensive income/(loss) and are
    reflected as a separate component of Shareholders  Equity.
    For the remaining international subsidiaries, non-monetary
    assets and liabilities are translated using historical rates,
    while monetary assets and liabilities are translated at current
    rates, with the U.S. dollar effects of rate changes
    included in the statements of consolidated operations.

Exchange gains and losses arising from translating intercompany
    balances of a long-term investment nature are recorded in the
    foreign currency translation account. Transactional exchange
    gains and losses are included in other (income)/expense, net.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Schering-Plough s pharmaceutical products are sold to
    direct purchasers which include wholesalers, retailers and
    certain health maintenance organizations. Price discounts and
    rebates on such sales are paid to federal and state agencies,
    other indirect purchasers and other market participants such as
    managed care organizations that indemnify beneficiaries of
    health plans for their pharmaceutical costs and pharmacy benefit
    managers.

Schering-Plough recognizes revenue when title and risk of loss
    pass to the purchaser and when reliable estimates of the
    following can be determined:

i. commercial discount and rebate arrangements;

ii. rebate obligations under certain federal and state
    governmental programs; and

iii. sales returns in the normal course of business.

66

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

When recognizing revenue, Schering-Plough estimates and records
    the applicable commercial and governmental discounts and rebates
    as well as sales returns that have been or are expected to be
    granted or made for products sold during the period. These
    amounts are deducted from sales for that period. If reliable
    estimates of these items cannot be made, Schering-Plough defers
    the recognition of revenue. Estimates recorded in prior periods
    are re-evaluated as part of this process.

Earnings
    Per Common Share   

Diluted earnings/(loss) per common share is computed by dividing
    net income/(loss) available to common shareholders plus
    preferred stock dividends for the dilutive effect of any
    mandatory convertible preferred stock by the sum of the weighted
    average number of common shares outstanding plus the dilutive
    effect of shares issuable through deferred stock units and the
    exercise of stock options and any dilutive effect of shares
    issuable upon conversion of Schering-Plough s mandatory
    convertible preferred stock.

Basic earnings/(loss) per common share is computed by dividing
    net income/(loss) available to common shareholders by the
    weighted average number of common shares outstanding.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets   

Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142,
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  requires that
    intangible assets acquired either individually or with a group
    of other assets be initially recognized and measured based on
    fair value. An intangible with a finite life is amortized over
    its useful life, while an intangible with an indefinite life,
    including goodwill, is not amortized.

The Company assesses the recoverability of the carrying value of
    its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful
    lives annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be fully
    recoverable. Recoverability of goodwill is measured at the
    reporting unit level based on a two-step approach. First, the
    carrying amount of the reporting unit is compared to the fair
    value as estimated by the future net discounted cash flows
    expected to be generated by the reporting unit. To the extent
    that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair
    value of the reporting unit, a second step would be performed,
    wherein the reporting unit s assets and liabilities are
    fair valued. To the extent that the reporting unit s
    carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of
    goodwill, impairment exists and would be recognized.

Recoverability of other intangible assets with indefinite useful
    lives is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the
    intangible assets to the fair value of the respective intangible
    assets. Any excess of the carrying value of the intangible
    assets over the fair value of the intangible assets would be
    recognized as an impairment loss.

Schering-Plough conducts its annual impairment testing of
    goodwill at October 1 each year. Based on the impairment
    tests performed, there was no impairment of goodwill in 2007,
    2006 or 2005; however, there can be no assurance that future
    goodwill or indefinite lived assets impairment tests will not
    result in a charge to the Statement of Consolidated Operations.

In 2007, Schering-Plough s goodwill and other intangible
    asset balances increased significantly due to the acquisition of
    OBS. See Note 2,  Acquisition,  and Note 12,
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  for additional
    information.

Other
    Assets   

Included in other assets is capitalized software of
    $278 million and $246 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Amortization expense were
    $89 million, $76 million, and $71 million in
    2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

67

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Income
    Taxes   

Schering-Plough implemented the provisions of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes,  (FIN 48) as of January 1, 2007.
    Under FIN 48, in order to recognize an uncertain tax
    benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining
    the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated
    as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely
    to be realized upon resolution of the benefit.

Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax effects
    of temporary differences between the financial and income tax
    reporting basis of Schering-Plough s assets and liabilities
    based on enacted tax laws and rates.

Accounting
    for Share-Based Compensation   

Prior to January 1, 2006, Schering-Plough accounted for its
    stock-based compensation arrangements using the intrinsic value
    method. No share-based employee compensation cost was reflected
    in the statements of consolidated operations, other than for
    Schering-Plough s deferred stock units and performance
    plans, as stock options granted under all other plans had an
    exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying
    common stock on the date of grant.

Effective January 1, 2006, Schering-Plough accounts for all
    share-based compensation in accordance with
    SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004)  Share-Based
    Payment  (SFAS 123R). See Note 5,
     Share-Based Compensation,  for additional information.

Shipping
    and Handling Expenses   

Shipping expenses are classified as selling, general and
    administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of
    Operations.

Impact
    of Other Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements.  The standard defines fair
    value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
    accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and
    expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The standard
    codifies the definition of fair value as the price that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants at the
    measurement date. The standard clarifies the principle that fair
    value should be based on the assumptions market participants
    would use when pricing the asset or liability and establishes a
    fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to
    develop those assumptions. For calendar year companies the
    standard is effective beginning January 1, 2008 except for
    non-financial items measured on a non-recurring basis for which
    it is effective beginning January 1, 2009. Based on
    Schering-Plough s current financial position the impact of
    this standard on the consolidated financial statements is not
    expected to be material.

In November 2006, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force
    Issue (EITF)
     No. 06-10, 
     Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement
    Benefits Aspects of Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life
    Insurance Arrangements,  which is effective for calendar
    year companies on January 1, 2008. The Task Force concluded
    that an employer should recognize a liability for the
    postretirement benefit related to a collateral assignment
    split-dollar life insurance arrangement in accordance with
    either FASB Statement No. 106 or APB Opinion No. 12
    based on the substantive agreement with the employee. The Task
    Force also concluded that an employer should recognize and
    measure an asset based on the nature and substance of the
    collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangement.
    The impact of this standard on the consolidated financial
    statements is not expected to be material.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities-Including an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 115  (SFAS 159), which permits entities to
    choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other
    items at fair value. SFAS 159 also

68

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

includes an amendment to SFAS No. 115,
     Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
    Securities,  which applies to all entities with
    available-for-sale and trading securities. This statement is
    effective as of the beginning of an entity s first fiscal
    year that begins after November 15, 2007. Based on
    Schering-Plough s current financial position the impact of
    this standard on the consolidated financial statements is not
    expected to be material.

In June 2007, the FASB issued EITF Issue
     No. 07-3, 
     Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development
    Activities,  which is effective for calendar year companies
    on January 1, 2008. The Task Force concluded that
    nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will
    be used or rendered for future research and development
    activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts
    should be recognized as an expense as the related goods are
    delivered or the services are performed, or when the goods or
    services are no longer expected to be provided. The impact of
    this standard on the consolidated financial statements is not
    expected to be material.

In December 2007, the FASB issued EITF Issue
     No. 07-1, 
     Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements,  which is
    effective for calendar year companies on January 1, 2009.
    The Task Force clarified the manner in which costs, revenues and
    sharing payments made to, or received by a partner in a
    collaborative arrangements should be presented in the income
    statement and set forth certain disclosures that should be
    required in the partners  financial statements.
    Schering-Plough is currently assessing the potential impacts of
    implementing this standard.

In December 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 110 (SAB 110), which
    permits entities, under certain circumstances, to continue to
    use the  simplified  method of estimating the expected
    term of plain options as discussed in SAB No. 107 and
    in accordance with SFAS 123R The guidance in this release
    is effective January 1, 2008. The impact of this standard
    on the consolidated financial statements is not expected to be
    material.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations. 
    (SFAS 141R) For calendar year companies, the standard is
    applicable to new business combinations occurring on or after
    January 1, 2009. SFAS 141R requires an acquiring
    entity to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed in a transaction at the acquisition-date fair value with
    limited exceptions. Most significantly, SFAS 141R will
    require that acquisition costs generally be expensed as
    incurred, certain acquired contingent liabilities will be
    recorded at fair value, and acquired in-process research and
    development will be recorded at fair value as an
    indefinite-lived intangible asset at the acquisition date. The
    standard will also impact certain unresolved matters related to
    purchase transactions consummated prior to the effective date of
    the standard. Schering-Plough is currently assessing the
    potential impacts of implementing this standard.

In December 2007, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51, 
    which is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within
    those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15,
    2008. The standard establishes new accounting and reporting
    standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and
    for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Schering-Plough is
    currently assessing the potential impacts of implementing this
    standard.

2.    

ACQUISITION  

Schering-Plough acquired OBS for a purchase price of
    approximately Euro 11 billion in cash, or
    approximately $16.1 billion (including legal and
    professional fees) on November 19, 2007 (the Acquisition
    Date). This acquisition added further diversification of
    marketed products, including two new therapeutic areas
    (Women s Health and Central Nervous System), as well as
    significant strength in Animal Health products and the R D
    pipeline. The purchase method of accounting was used to account
    for the transaction in accordance with SFAS No. 141,
     Business Combinations.  The operating results of OBS
    are included in Schering-Plough s consolidated financial
    statements for the period subsequent to the Acquisition Date.

69

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table provides pro forma financial information for
    the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 as if the
    acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of each period
    presented:

The pro forma financial information for both periods presented
    includes amortization of the
     step-up  of
    inventory of $1.1 billion and an acquired in-process
    research and development charge of $3.8 billion, which are
    non-recurring charges directly attributable to the accounting
    for the acquisition. The pro forma financial information also
    includes the effect of purchase accounting adjustments such as
    additional amortization expense from the acquired identifiable
    intangible assets and depreciation from the
     step-up  of
    property. No effect has been given in the pro forma financial
    information for synergistic benefits that may be realized or
    costs related to the integration of OBS. The pro forma financial
    information should not be considered indicative of actual
    results that would have been achieved had this acquisition been
    consummated on the dates indicated and does not purport to
    indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any
    future period.

The preliminary allocation of the purchase price of OBS on
    November 19, 2007 is as follows:

This allocation of the purchase price is subject to finalization
    of Schering-Plough s management analysis of the fair value
    of the assets acquired (including assets related to pension
    plans) and liabilities assumed of OBS as of the Acquisition
    Date. The final allocation of the purchase price may result in
    additional adjustments to the recorded amounts of assets and
    liabilities and may also result in adjustments to depreciation,
    amortization and acquired in-process research and development.
    The adjustments arising out of the finalization of the purchase
    price allocation will not impact cash flows. However, such
    adjustments could result in material increases or decreases to
    net income/(loss) available to common shareholders. Further
    revisions to the purchase price allocation will be made as
    additional information becomes available. The final allocation
    is expected to be completed as soon as practicable but no later
    than 12 months after the Acquisition Date.

70

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

(1) The preliminary purchase price allocation to
    identifiable intangible assets is as follows:

The weighted average life for the $6.8 billion of total
    intangibles is approximately 15 years. The intangible
    assets have no significant residual value. There were no
    acquired intangible assets that were determined to have an
    indefinite life.

(2) $1.8 billion of the goodwill has been assigned to
    the Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment and
    $888 million has been assigned to the Animal health
    segment. None of the goodwill is deductible for income tax
    purposes.

(3) The preliminary value of $3.8 billion assigned to
    acquired IPR D was charged to operations in the fourth
    quarter of 2007. This charge was associated with research
    projects in animal health and research projects in the
    women s health, central nervous system and anesthesia
    therapeutic areas of human health. The amount was determined by
    using discounted cash flow projections of identified research
    projects for which technological feasibility had not been
    established and for which there was no alternative future use.
    The discount rates used ranged from 14 percent to
    18 percent. The projected launch dates following FDA or
    other regulatory approval are years 2008 through 2013, at which
    time Schering-Plough expects these projects to begin to generate
    cash flows. The cost to complete the research projects will
    depend on whether the projects are brought to their final stages
    of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other
    regulatory agencies for approval. As of December 31, 2007,
    the estimated cost to complete projects near the final stages of
    development was in excess of $700 million. All of the
    research and development projects considered in the valuation
    are subject to the normal risks and uncertainties associated
    with demonstrating the safety and efficacy required to obtain
    FDA or other regulatory approvals.

(4) Included in acquisition related liabilities are
    involuntary termination benefits and costs to exit certain
    activities of OBS.

In conjunction with the OBS acquisition, Schering-Plough agreed
    to divest certain assets as part of regulatory reviews in the
    U.S. and Europe. These assets have been classified as held for
    sale and are included in other current assets in the
    consolidated balance sheet and are not material.

3.    

SPECIAL
    AND ACQUISITION RELATED CHARGES AND MANUFACTURING
    STREAMLINING  

2007
    Special and Acquisition Related
    Charges   

During the year ended December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough
    incurred $84 million of special and acquisition-related
    charges, comprised of $61 million of integration-related
    costs for the OBS acquisition and $23 million of severance
    charges as part of integration activities.

2006
    Manufacturing Streamlining    

During 2006, Schering-Plough implemented changes to its
    manufacturing operations in Puerto Rico and New Jersey that have
    streamlined its global supply chain and further enhanced
    Schering-Plough s long-term competitiveness. These changes
    resulted in the phase-out and closure of Schering-Plough s
    manufacturing operations in Manati, Puerto Rico, and additional
    workforce reductions in Las Piedras, Puerto Rico, and New

71

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Jersey. In total, these actions resulted in the elimination of
    over 1,000 positions. These actions yielded an annualized cost
    savings of approximately $100 million.

Special
    charges   

Special charges in 2006 related to the changes in
    Schering-Plough s manufacturing operations totaled
    $102 million. These charges consisted of approximately
    $47 million of severance and $55 million of fixed
    asset impairments.

Cost
    of sales   

Included in 2006 cost of sales was approximately
    $146 million consisting of $93 million of accelerated
    depreciation, $46 million of inventory write-offs, and
    $7 million of other charges related to the closure of
    Schering-Plough s manufacturing facilities in Manati,
    Puerto Rico.

The following table summarizes activities reflected in the
    consolidated financial statements related to changes to
    Schering-Plough s manufacturing operations which were
    completed in 2006:

2005
    Special Charge Activities   

Special charges incurred in 2005 are as follows:

Litigation
    charges   

In 2005, litigation reserves were increased by
    $250 million. This increase resulted in a total reserve of
    $500 million for the Massachusetts Investigation, as well
    as the investigations and the state litigation disclosed under
     AWP Litigation and Investigations  in Note 20,
     Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters, 
    representing Schering-Plough s then current estimate to
    resolve this matter. On August 29, 2006, Schering-Plough
    announced it had reached an agreement with the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the District of

72

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Massachusetts and the U.S. Department of Justice to settle
    the Massachusetts Investigation for an aggregate amount of
    $435 million, which was paid during 2007. This settlement
    amount relates only to the Massachusetts Investigation. The AWP
    investigations and litigation are ongoing.

Employee
    termination costs   

Employee termination costs in 2005 consisted of $7 million
    associated with a Voluntary Early Retirement Program (VERP) in
    the U.S. during 2003 and $21 million of other employee
    termination costs.

Asset
    impairment and other charges   

For the year ended December 31, 2005, Schering-Plough
    recognized asset impairment and other charges of
    $16 million related primarily to the consolidation of
    Schering-Plough s U.S. biotechnology organizations.

4.    

EQUITY
    INCOME  

In May 2000, Schering-Plough and Merck   Co., Inc.
    (Merck) entered into two separate sets of agreements to jointly
    develop and market certain products in the U.S. including
    (1) two cholesterol-lowering drugs and (2) an
    allergy/asthma drug. In December 2001, the cholesterol
    agreements were expanded to include all countries of the world
    except Japan. In general, the companies agreed that the
    collaborative activities under these agreements would operate in
    a virtual joint venture to the maximum degree possible by
    relying on the respective infrastructures of the two companies.
    These agreements generally provide for equal sharing of
    development costs and for co-promotion of approved products by
    each company.

The cholesterol agreements provide for Schering-Plough and Merck
    to jointly develop and commercialize ezetimibe in the
    cholesterol management field:

i. as a once-daily monotherapy (managed as ZETIA in the
    U.S. and Asia and EZETROL in Europe);

ii. in co-administration with various approved statin
    drugs; and

iii. as a fixed-combination tablet of ezetimibe and
    simvastatin (Zocor), Merck s cholesterol-modifying
    medicine. This combination medication (ezetimibe/simvastatin) is
    managed as VYTORIN in the U.S. and as INEGY in many
    international countries.

ZETIA/EZETROL (ezetimibe) and VYTORIN/INEGY (the combination of
    ezetimibe/simvastatin) are approved for use in the U.S. and have
    been launched in many international markets.

Schering-Plough utilizes the equity method of accounting in
    recording its share of activity from the Merck/Schering-Plough
    cholesterol joint venture. As such, Schering-Plough s net
    sales do not include the sales of the joint venture. The
    cholesterol joint venture agreements provide for the sharing of
    operating income generated by the joint venture based upon
    percentages that vary by product, sales level and country. In
    the U.S. market, Schering-Plough receives a greater share
    of profits on the first $300 million of annual ZETIA sales.
    Above $300 million of annual ZETIA sales, Merck and
    Schering-Plough generally share profits equally.
    Schering-Plough s allocation of the joint venture income is
    increased by milestones recognized. Further, either
    company s share of the joint venture s income from
    operations is subject to a reduction if that company fails to
    perform a specified minimum number of physician details in a
    particular country. The companies agree annually to the minimum
    number of physician details by country.

The companies bear the costs of their own general sales forces
    and commercial overhead in marketing joint venture products
    around the world. In the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, the
    cholesterol agreements provide for a reimbursement to each
    company for physician details that are set on an annual basis,
    and in Italy, a contractual amount is included in the profit
    sharing calculation that is not reimbursed. In the U.S., Canada
    and Puerto Rico this amount is equal to each company s
    physician details multiplied by a contractual fixed fee.
    Schering-Plough reports these amounts as part of equity income
    from the cholesterol joint venture. These amounts do not
    represent a reimbursement of specific, incremental and
    identifiable costs for Schering-

73

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Plough s detailing of the cholesterol products in these
    markets. In addition, these amounts are not reflective of
    Schering-Plough s sales effort related to the joint venture
    as Schering-Plough s sales force and related costs
    associated with the joint venture are generally estimated to be
    higher.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, Schering-Plough
    recognized milestones of $20 million. These milestones
    related to certain European approvals of VYTORIN
    (ezetimibe/simvastatin) in 2005.

Costs of the joint venture that the companies contractually
    share are a portion of manufacturing costs, specifically
    identified promotion costs (including
     direct-to-consumer 
    advertising and direct and identifiable
     out-of-pocket 
    promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services
    such as market support, market research, market expansion, a
    specialty sales force and physician education programs.

Certain specified research and development expenses are
    generally shared equally by Schering-Plough and Merck. Under
    certain conditions, as specified in the joint venture agreements
    with Merck, Schering-Plough could be entitled to receive
    reimbursements of its future research and development expenses
    of up to $105 million.

The following information provides a summary of the components
    of Schering-Plough s equity income from the cholesterol
    joint venture for the year ended December 31:

Equity income from the joint venture excludes any profit arising
    from transactions between Schering-Plough and the joint venture
    until such time as there is an underlying profit realized by the
    joint venture in a transaction with a party other than
    Schering-Plough or Merck.

Due to the virtual nature of the cholesterol joint venture,
    Schering-Plough incurs substantial costs, such as selling,
    general and administrative costs, that are not reflected in
    equity income and are borne by the overall cost structure of
    Schering-Plough. These costs are reported on their respective
    line items in the Statements of Consolidated Operations and are
    not separately identifiable. The cholesterol agreements do not
    provide for any jointly owned facilities and, as such, products
    resulting from the joint venture are manufactured in facilities
    owned by either Schering-Plough or Merck.

The allergy/asthma agreements provide for the joint development
    and marketing by the companies of a once-daily,
    fixed-combination tablet containing CLARITIN and Singulair.
    Singulair is Merck s once-daily leukotriene receptor
    antagonist for the treatment of asthma and seasonal allergic
    rhinitis. During 2007, a New Drug Application filing for this
    combination tablet has been accepted by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration (FDA) for standard review.

During 2007, Schering-Plough announced that it had agreed with
    Merck to commence development of a single-tablet combination of
    ezetimibe and atorvastatin as a treatment for elevated
    cholesterol levels.

See Note 20,  Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
    Matters,  for discussion of the ENHANCE matter.

5.    

SHARE-BASED
    COMPENSATION  

Prior to January 1, 2006, Schering-Plough accounted for its
    stock compensation arrangements using the intrinsic value
    method, which followed the recognition and measurement
    principles of APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for
    Stock Issued to Employees  and the related Interpretations.
    Prior to 2006, no stock-based employee compensation cost was
    reflected in the Statement of Consolidated Operations, other
    than for

74

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Schering-Plough s deferred stock units, as stock options
    granted under all other plans had an exercise price equal to the
    market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.

Schering-Plough adopted SFAS 123R effective January 1,
    2006. SFAS 123R requires companies to recognize
    compensation expense in an amount equal to the fair value of all
    share-based payments granted to employees. Schering-Plough
    elected the modified prospective transition method, and
    therefore, adjustments to prior periods were not required as a
    result of adopting SFAS 123R. Under this method, the
    provisions of SFAS 123R apply to all awards granted after
    the date of adoption and to any unrecognized expense of awards
    unvested at the date of adoption based on the grant date fair
    value. SFAS 123R also amended SFAS No. 95,
     Statement of Cash Flows,  to require that excess tax
    benefits that had been reflected as operating cash flows be
    reflected as financing cash flows.

For grants issued to retirement-eligible employees prior to the
    adoption of SFAS 123R, Schering-Plough recognized
    compensation costs over the stated vesting period of the stock
    option or deferred stock unit with acceleration of any
    unrecognized compensation costs upon the retirement of the
    employee. Upon adoption of SFAS 123R, Schering-Plough
    recognizes compensation costs on all share-based grants made on
    or after January 1, 2006, over the service period, which is
    the earlier of: i) one year if the employee is or becomes
    retirement eligible during the first year of the grant;
    ii) the employees  retirement eligibility date if
    after the first year of the grant; and iii) the service
    period of the award.

On November 10, 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 123R-3, 
     Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects
    of Share-Based Payment Awards.  Schering-Plough has elected
    to adopt the transition method provided in this FASB Staff
    Position for purposes of calculating the pool of excess tax
    benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized
    subsequent to the adoption of SFAS 123R.

During 2006, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan) was
    approved by Schering-Plough s shareholders. Under the terms
    of the 2006 Plan, 92 million of Schering-Plough s
    authorized common shares may be granted as stock options or
    awarded as deferred stock units to officers and certain
    employees of Schering-Plough through December 2011.

Schering-Plough intends to utilize unissued authorized shares to
    satisfy stock option exercises and for the issuance of deferred
    stock units. Expensed related to share-based compensation are
    classified in the line item associated with the employees 
    function.

During 2007, Schering-Plough granted performance-based deferred
    stock units under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, which provide
    certain senior managers the opportunity to earn shares of
    Schering-Plough common stock. These units will only be earned if
    specific pre-established levels of performance and service are
    achieved during a three year performance period
     (2007-2009). 

Implementation
    of SFAS 123R   

In the first quarter of 2006, Schering-Plough recognized a
    benefit to income of $22 million for the cumulative effect
    of a change in accounting principle related to two long-term
    compensation plans required to be accounted for as liability
    plans under SFAS 123R.

Tax benefits recognized related to stock-based compensation and
    related cash flow impacts were not material during 2007 and 2006
    as Schering-Plough is in a U.S. Net Operating Loss position.

Stock
    Options   

Stock options are granted to employees at exercise prices equal
    to the fair market value of Schering-Plough s stock at the
    dates of grant. Stock options under the 2006 Plan generally vest
    over three years and have a term of seven years. Certain options
    granted under previous plans vest over longer periods ranging
    from three to nine years and have a term of 10 years.
    Compensation costs for all stock options are recognized

75

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

over the requisite service period for each separately vesting
    portion of the stock option award. Expense is recognized, net of
    estimated forfeitures, over the vesting period of the options
    using an accelerated method. Expense recognized in 2007 and
    2006, was approximately $72 and $56 million, respectively.

The weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:

Dividend yields are based on historical dividend yields.
    Expected volatilities are based on historical volatilities of
    Schering-Plough s common stock which is not expected to
    differ materially from future volatility. The risk-free interest
    rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at
    the time of grant for periods corresponding with the expected
    life of the options. The expected term of options represents the
    weighted average period of time that options granted are
    expected to be outstanding giving consideration to vesting
    schedules. Schering-Plough utilizes the simplified method of
    calculating the expected term of stock options as allowed under
    SAB 107 as amended by SAB 110.

The amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options
    in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $225 million, $83 million
    and $60 million, respectively.

Stock-based compensation prior to January 1, 2006, was
    determined using the intrinsic value method. The following table
    provides supplemental information for 2005 as if stock-based
    compensation had been computed under SFAS 123:

2005 

(Dollars in millions  

except per  

share figures) 

Net income available to common shareholders, as reported

$

183

Add back: Expense included in reported net income for deferred
    stock units

89

Deduct: Pro forma expense as if both stock options and deferred
    stock units were charged against net income available to common
    shareholders in accordance with SFAS 123

(177

)

Pro forma net income available to common shareholders using the
    fair value method

$

95

Diluted earnings per common share:

Diluted earnings per common share, as reported

$

0.12

Pro forma diluted earnings per common share using the fair value
    method

0.06

Basic earnings per common share:

Basic earnings per common share, as reported

$

0.12

Pro forma basic earnings per common share using the fair value
    method

0.06

76

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Summarized information about stock options outstanding and
    exercisable at December 31, 2007, is as follows:

The weighted-average fair value of stock options granted in
    2007, 2006 and 2005 was $8.06, $5.22 and $7.04, respectively.
    The intrinsic value of stock options exercised in 2007, 2006 and
    2005 was $132 million, $21 million and
    $24 million, respectively. The total fair value of options
    vested in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $80 million,
    $73 million and $69 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, the total remaining unrecognized
    compensation cost related to non-vested stock options amounted
    to $52 million, which will be amortized over the
    weighted-average remaining requisite service period of
    2.1 years.

The following table summarizes stock option activity as of
    December 31, 2007, and changes during the year then ended
    under the current and prior plans:

The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding at
    December 31, 2007, was $326 million. The aggregate
    intrinsic value of stock options currently exercisable at
    December 31, 2007, was $253 million. Intrinsic value
    for stock options is calculated based on the exercise price of
    the underlying awards and the quoted price of
    Schering-Plough s common stock as of the reporting date.

77

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes nonvested stock option activity
    as of December 31, 2007, and changes during the year then
    ended under the current and prior plans:

Deferred
    Stock Units   

The fair value of deferred stock units is determined based on
    the number of shares granted and the quoted price of
    Schering-Plough s common stock at the date of grant.
    Deferred stock units generally vest at the end of three years
    provided the employee remains in the service of Schering-Plough.
    Expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting
    period. Deferred stock units are payable in an equivalent number
    of common shares. Expense recognized in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was
    $125 million, $112 million and $89 million,
    respectively.

Summarized information about deferred stock units outstanding at
    December 31, 2007, is as follows:

The weighted-average fair value of deferred stock units granted
    in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $31.19, $19.27 and $20.65
    respectively. The total fair value of deferred stock units
    vested during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $17 million,
    $68 million and $39 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, the total remaining unrecognized
    compensation cost related to deferred stock units amounted to
    $185 million, which will be amortized over the
    weighted-average remaining requisite service period of
    2.0 years.

78

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The following table summarizes deferred stock unit activity as
    of December 31, 2007, and changes during the year then
    ended under the current and prior plans:

Performance-Based
    Deferred Stock Units   

The distribution of the performance-based deferred stock units
    are contingent on Schering-Plough meeting either performance
     and/or 
    market conditions. One half of the performance-based stock unit
    grant has a performance condition and the fair value of these
    units was based on the closing stock price on the date of grant.
    The other half of the grant has a market condition and the fair
    value of these units was determined by using a lattice valuation
    model with expected volatility assumptions and other assumptions
    appropriate for determining fair value. The weighted average
    grant-date fair value of performance-based deferred stock units
    granted during 2007 was $23.47 and represented approximately
    1,397,000 underlying shares. As of December 31, 2007, none
    of these units have vested.

Compensation expense for performance-based stock units is based
    on the fair values of the awards expected to vest based on
    performance measures and is recognized over the performance
    period. The compensation expense recognized for the year ended
    2007 is $14 million. As of December 31, 2007,
    unrecognized compensation cost related to the performance-based
    deferred stock units was $34 million, which will be
    amortized over the remaining weighted average requisite service
    period of 2.0 years. The remaining unrecognized
    compensation cost for the performance-based deferred stock units
    may vary each reporting period based on changes in the expected
    achievement of performance measures.

Liability
    Plans   

Schering-Plough has two compensation plans that are classified
    as liability plans under SFAS 123R, as the ultimate cash
    payout of these plans will be based on Schering-Plough s
    stock performance as compared to the stock performance of a peer
    group. Upon adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006,
    Schering-Plough recognized a cumulative income effect of a
    change in accounting principle of $22 million in order to
    recognize the liability plans at fair value. During the service
    period, income or expense amounts related to these liability
    plans are based on the change in fair value at each reporting
    date. Fair value for the plans was estimated using a lattice
    valuation model using expected volatility assumptions and other
    assumptions appropriate for determining fair value. For one of
    these liability plans, the service period concluded as of
    December 31, 2006 and the value of the plan became fixed.
    The expense recognized for these liability plans in the
    Statements of Consolidated Operations, exclusive of the impact
    of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle,
    was $22 million and $24 million, for 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, the total remaining unrecognized
    compensation cost related to the liability plans amounted to
    $12 million, which will be amortized over the
    weighted-average remaining requisite service period of
    1 year. This amount will vary each reporting period based
    on changes in fair value for the plan for which there is a
    remaining service requirement.

79

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

6.    

OTHER
    (INCOME)/EXPENSE, NET  

The components of other (income)/expense, net, are as follows:

Net foreign exchange gains of $37 million in 2007 includes
    $101 million of foreign currency transaction exchange
    losses related to euro-denominated debt instruments prior to
    being accounted for as economic hedges of the net investment in
    a foreign operation. These currency exchange losses were
    non-cash items and are included as adjustments to reconcile net
    loss to net cash provided by operating activities in the
    Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows.

During 2007, as part of an overall risk management strategy and
    in consideration of various preliminary financing scenarios
    associated with the acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough
    purchased euro-denominated currency options (derivatives) for
    aggregate premiums of approximately $165 million and
    received proceeds of $675 million upon the termination of
    these options, resulting in a net realized gain of
    $510 million. These derivatives did not qualify for hedge
    accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities,  as amended (SFAS 133). Accordingly, the
    gain on these derivatives was recognized in the Statement of
    Consolidated Operations. These derivatives were short-term
    (trading) in nature and did not hedge a specific financing or
    investing transaction. Accordingly, the cash impacts of these
    derivatives have been classified as operating cash flows in the
    Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows.

During 2007, Schering-Plough executed a series of interest rate
    swaps in anticipation of financing the acquisition of OBS. The
    objective of the swaps was to hedge the interest rate payments
    to be made on future issuances of debt. As such, the swaps were
    designated as cash flow hedges of future interest rate payments,
    and in accordance with SFAS 133, the effective portion of
    the gains or losses on the hedges are reported in other
    comprehensive income and any ineffective portion is reported in
    operations. In connection with the euro-denominated debt
    issuances as described in Note 14,  Borrowings and
    Other Commitments,  portions of the swaps were deemed
    ineffective and Schering-Plough recognized a $7 million
    loss in the Statement of Consolidated Operations during 2007.
    The effective portion of the swaps of $12 million was
    recorded in other comprehensive income during 2007 and is being
    recognized as interest expense over the life of the related
    debt. The cash flow impacts of these interest rate swaps are
    classified as operating cash flows in the Statement of
    Consolidated Cash Flows.

During 2006 and 2007, Schering-Plough participated in healthcare
    refinancing programs adopted by local government fiscal
    authorities in a major European market. During the year ended
    December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough transferred
    $173 million of its trade accounts receivables owned by
    foreign subsidiaries to third-party financial institutions
    without recourse. During the year ended December 31, 2006,
    Schering-Plough transferred $38 million of its trade
    accounts receivables owned by a foreign subsidiary to
    third-party financial institutions without recourse. The
    transfer of trade accounts receivable qualified as sales of
    accounts receivable under SFAS No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities.  For the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the transfer of these trade
    accounts receivable

80

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

did not have a material impact on Schering-Plough s
    Statement of Consolidated Operations. Cash flows from these
    transactions are included in the change in accounts receivable
    in operating activities.

7.    

INCOME
    TAXES  

The components of consolidated (loss)/income before income taxes
    for the years ended December 31 are as follows:

The 2007 loss included an acquired in-process research and
    development charge to the amortization of fair values of certain
    assets acquired as part of the OBS acquisition

Income from the cholesterol joint venture is included in the
    above table based on the jurisdiction in which the income is
    earned.

The components of income tax expense for the years ended
    December 31 are as follows:

During 2004, Schering-Plough established a valuation allowance
    on its net U.S. deferred tax assets, including the
    benefit of U.S. operating losses, as management concluded
    that it is not more likely than not that the benefit of the
    U.S. net deferred tax assets can be realized. At
    December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough continues to maintain a
    valuation allowance against its U.S. net deferred tax
    assets.

During 2005, Schering-Plough repatriated approximately
    $9.4 billion in accordance with its planned repatriation
    under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act, (AJCA)
    which was the maximum amount of foreign earnings that qualified
    for an effectively reduced tax rate of 5.25 percent. The
    tax provision related to the AJCA was recorded in 2004.
    Schering-Plough s tax provision for the year ended
    December 31, 2005, includes a U.S. federal income tax
    benefit of approximately $42 million as a result of an IRS
    Notice issued in August 2005. The provisions of this Notice
    resulted in a reduction of the previously accrued tax liability
    attributable to the AJCA repatriation and also reduced the 2005
    U.S. Net Operating Loss (NOL) carried forward to subsequent
    years.

81

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Prior to the AJCA, Schering-Plough s intent was to
    indefinitely reinvest all unremitted earnings of its
    international subsidiaries, and except for the amounts
    repatriated under the AJCA, Schering-Plough maintains its intent
    to indefinitely reinvest earnings of its international
    subsidiaries. Schering-Plough has not provided deferred taxes on
    approximately $5.8 billion of undistributed foreign
    earnings as of December 31, 2007. Determining the tax
    liability that would arise if these earnings were remitted is
    not practicable. That liability would depend on a number of
    factors, including the amount of the earnings distributed and
    whether the U.S. operations were generating taxable profits
    or losses.

Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences
    between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of
    Schering-Plough s assets and liabilities.
    Schering-Plough s deferred tax assets result principally
    from the recording of certain items that currently are not
    deductible for tax purposes and net operating loss and other tax
    credit carryforwards. Schering-Plough s deferred tax
    liabilities principally result from book over tax basis
    difference resulting from the OBS acquisition and the use of
    accelerated depreciation for tax purposes.

The components of Schering-Plough s deferred tax assets and
    liabilities at December 31 are as follows:

The change in the valuation allowance from 2006 to 2007 is
    principally related to an increase in deferred tax liabilities
    related to the acquisition of OBS.

The deferred tax assets for net operating losses and other tax
    credit carryforwards principally relate to U.S. NOLs,
    Research and Development (R D) tax credits,
    U.S. foreign tax credits and Federal Alternative Minimum
    Tax (AMT) credit carryforwards. At December 31, 2007,
    Schering-Plough had approximately $1.7 billion of
    U.S. NOLs for income tax purposes that are available to
    offset future U.S. taxable income. U.S. NOLs are
    U.S. operating losses adjusted for the differences between
    financial and tax reporting. These U.S. NOLs will expire in
    varying amounts between 2024 and 2027, if unused. State NOLs
    related to these U.S. NOLs, as well as an incremental
    amount related to OBS s state NOLs, expire in varying
    amounts between 2008 and 2027. At December 31, 2007,
    Schering-Plough had approximately $164 million of R D
    tax credits

82

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

carryforwards that will expire between 2022 and 2027;
    $189 million of foreign tax credit carryforwards that will
    expire between 2011 and 2017; and $49 million of AMT tax
    credit carryforwards that have an indefinite life. The
    U.S. NOL carryforward could be materially reduced after
    examination of Schering-Plough s income tax returns by the
    Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Schering-Plough has reduced the
    deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance recorded for
    its U.S. NOLs and tax credit carryforwards to reflect the
    estimated resolution of these examinations.

The difference between income taxes based on the
    U.S. statutory tax rate and Schering-Plough s income
    tax expense for the years ending December 31 was due to the
    following:

The permanent differences in 2007 are largely attributable to
    the acquired in-process research and development charge of
    $3.8 billion related to the acquisition of OBS for which no
    tax benefit was recorded.

The lower tax rates in other jurisdictions in 2007, 2006, and
    2005, net, are primarily attributable to Schering-Plough s
    manufacturing subsidiaries in Singapore, Ireland and Puerto
    Rico, which operate under various incentive tax grants that
    begin to expire in 2011. Additionally, most major countries in
    which Schering Plough conducts its operations have statutory tax
    rates less than the U.S. tax rate. Overall, income taxes
    primarily relate to foreign taxes and does not include any
    benefit related to U.S. operating losses.

Schering-Plough implemented the provisions of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes,  (FIN 48) as of January 1,
    2007. As required by FIN 48, the cumulative effect of
    applying the provisions of the Interpretation was reported as an
    adjustment to Schering-Plough s retained earnings balance
    as of January 1, 2007. Schering-Plough reduced its
    January 1, 2007 retained earnings by $259 million as a
    result of the adoption of FIN 48.

Schering-Plough s unrecognized tax benefits result
    primarily from the varying application of statutes, regulations
    and interpretations and include exposures on intercompany terms
    of cross border arrangements and utilization of cash held by
    foreign subsidiaries (investment in U.S. property) as well
    as Schering-Plough s tax matters litigation (see
    Note 20,  Legal, Environmental and Regulatory
    Matters ). At January 1, and December 31, 2007,
    the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was
    $924 million and $859 million, respectively, which
    includes reductions to deferred tax assets carrying a full
    valuation allowance, potential refund claims and tax
    liabilities. At January 1, and December 31, 2007,
    approximately $645 million and $535 million,
    respectively, of total unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized,
    would affect the effective tax rate. Management believes it is
    reasonably possible that total unrecognized tax benefits could
    decrease over the next twelve-month period up to
    $615 million. This would be primarily attributable to a
    decision in the tax matter currently being litigated in Newark
    District Court, possible final resolution of
    Schering-Plough s 1997   2002 examination by the
    IRS and appeals and possible resolutions of various other
    matters. However, the timing of the ultimate resolution of
    Schering-Plough s tax matters and the payment and receipt
    of related cash is dependent on a number of factors, many of
    which are outside Schering-Plough s control.

83

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Schering-Plough includes interest expense or income as well as
    potential penalties on uncertain tax positions as a component of
    income tax expense in the Statement of Consolidated Operations.
    The total amount of accrued interest related to uncertain tax
    positions at January 1, and December 31, 2007 was
    $193 million and $197 million, respectively, and is
    included in other accrued liabilities.

The tabular reconciliation of Schering-Plough s FIN 48
    unrecognized tax benefits from January 1  
    December 31, 2007 is as follows:

(Dollars in millions) 

At January 1, 2007

$

924

Additions for tax positions related to 2007

74

Additions for tax positions related to prior years

46

Additions for tax positions related to acquired entities

37

Reductions for tax positions related to prior years

(25

)

Reductions for potential refund claims(1)

(120

)

Reductions related to amounts settled with taxing authorities

(77

)

Lapses in Statutes of Limitations

As of December 31, 2007

$

859

(1)  

Schering Plough had been considering the filing of refund claims
    based on court decisions involving the claim of right doctrine.
    Two recent courts of appeal decision, clarifying the law in this
    area have made it clear that Schering Plough would not prevail
    on these claims. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits has
    been reduced accordingly and had no impact on net loss in 2007. 

Net consolidated income tax payments, exclusive of payments
    related to the tax examinations and litigation discussed below,
    during 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $389 million,
    $234 million, and $592 million, respectively.

In January 2006, the IRS completed its examination of
    Schering-Plough s
     1993-1996 
    federal income tax returns. Schering-Plough made a cash payment
    in the third quarter of 2005 in the form of a tax deposit of
    approximately $239 million in anticipation of the
    settlement of the
     1993-1996 
    tax examination and to prevent additional IRS interest charges.
    This payment fully satisfied the liability associated with the
    tax examination and was consistent with the previously recorded
    reserves.

During the second quarter of 2007, the IRS completed its
    examination of Schering-Plough s
     1997-2002 
    federal income tax returns. Schering-Plough is seeking
    resolution of an issue raised during this examination through
    the IRS administrative appeals process. Schering-Plough remains
    open with the IRS for the 1997   2007 tax years. For
    most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both
    U.S. state and foreign), Schering-Plough s income tax
    returns are open for examination for the period 2000 through
    2007. In July 2007, Schering-Plough made a payment of
    $98 million to the IRS pertaining to the
     1997-2002 
    examination.

In October 2001, IRS auditors asserted that two interest rate
    swaps that Schering-Plough entered into with an unrelated party
    should be recharacterized as loans from affiliated companies,
    resulting in additional tax liability for the 1991 and 1992 tax
    years. In September 2004, Schering-Plough made payments to the
    IRS in the amount of $194 million for income tax and
    $279 million for interest. Schering-Plough filed refund
    claims for the tax and interest with the IRS in December 2004.
    Following the IRS s denial of Schering-Plough s claims
    for a refund, Schering-Plough filed suit in May 2005 in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey for
    refund of the full amount of the tax and interest. This refund
    litigation is currently being tried in Newark District court.
    Schering-Plough s tax reserves were adequate to cover the
    above-mentioned payments.

84

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

8.    

RETIREMENT
    PLANS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS  

Plan
    Descriptions   

Schering-Plough has defined benefit pension plans covering
    eligible employees in the U.S. and certain foreign
    countries. For the largest U.S. plan (the Schering-Plough
    Retirement Plan), benefits for normal retirement are primarily
    based upon the participant s average final earnings, years
    of service and Social Security income, and are modified for
    early retirement. Death and disability benefits are also
    available under the plan. Benefits become fully vested after
    five years of service. The plan provides for the continued
    accrual of credited service for employees who opt to postpone
    retirement and remain employed with Schering-Plough after
    reaching the normal retirement age.
     Non-U.S. pension 
    plans offer benefits that are competitive with local market
    conditions. The defined benefit plans that were assumed by
    Schering-Plough as part of the OBS acquisition have been
    included in Schering-Plough s results of operations after
    the Acquisition Date and financial position as of
    December 31, 2007. See Note 2,  Acquisition. 

In addition, Schering-Plough provides post-retirement medical
    and life insurance benefits primarily to its eligible
    U.S. retirees and their dependents through its
    post-retirement benefit plans.

Effective December 31, 2006, Schering-Plough accounts for
    its retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans
    (the plans) in accordance with SFAS No. 158,
     Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
    Other Postretirement Plans,  (SFAS 158) an
    amendment of SFAS No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R.
    SFAS 158 requires the recognition of an asset for the
    overfunded plans and a liability for the underfunded plans in
    Schering-Plough s consolidated balance sheets. This
    Statement also requires the recognition of changes in the funded
    status of the plans in the year in which the changes occur.
    SFAS 158 allows an extended adoption date for the
    requirement to have the Schering-Plough s year-end date as
    the measurement date for all defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement plans. For the plans which had measurement dates
    other than year-end prior to the adoption of SFAS 158,
    Schering-Plough adopted the year-end measurement date effective
    with 2007. The impact on the consolidated financial statements
    related to this measurement date change was not material.

The incremental effects resulting from the implementation of
    SFAS 158 on the individual line items of
    Schering-Plough s Consolidated Balance Sheets at
    December 31, 2006, are as follows:

Included in Schering-Plough s accumulated other
    comprehensive loss at December 31, 2007 and 2006, was
    $689 million ($553 million, net of tax effects) and
    $841 million ($692 million, net of tax effects),
    respectively, of costs that were not recognized as components of
    net periodic benefit costs pursuant to

85

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

SFAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for
    Pensions  and SFAS No. 106,  Employers 
    Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
    Pensions.  The components of these costs at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:

The actuarial losses primarily represent the cumulative
    difference between the actuarial assumptions and the actual
    returns from plan assets, changes in discount rates and
    plans  experience. Total loss amounts, net in excess of
    certain thresholds, are amortized into net pension and other
    post-retirement benefit cost over the average remaining service
    life of employees. The amounts in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss that are expected to be recognized as
    components of net periodic costs during 2008 are as follows:

Other 

Retirement 

Post-Retirement 

Plans 

Benefits 

(Dollars in millions) 

Actuarial loss recognition

$

19

$

10

Prior service cost/(credit) recognition

7

(5

)

Actuarial
    Assumptions   

The consolidated weighted average assumptions used to determine
    benefit obligations at December 31 were:

The assumptions above were used to develop the benefit
    obligations at year-end.

The consolidated weighted average assumptions used to determine
    net benefit costs for the years ended December 31 were:

The assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs for
    each year are established at the end of each previous year while
    the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations are
    established at each year-end. The net periodic benefit costs and
    the actuarial present value of the benefit obligations are based
    on actuarial assumptions that are determined annually based on
    an evaluation of long-term trends, as well as market conditions,
    that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement
    benefits.

The long-term expected rates of return on plan assets are
    derived from return assumptions determined for each of the major
    asset classes: equities, fixed income and real estate, on a
    proportional basis. The return

86

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

expectations for each of these asset classes are based largely
    on assumptions about economic growth and inflation, which are
    supported by long-term historical data.

The weighted average assumed healthcare cost trend rate used for
    post-retirement measurement purposes is 10.6 percent for
    2008, trending down to 5.2 percent by 2017. A one percent
    increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would
    increase combined post-retirement service and interest cost by
    $11 million and the post-retirement benefit obligation by
    $92 million. A one percent decrease in the assumed health
    care cost trend rate would decrease combined post-retirement
    service and interest cost by $9 million and the
    post-retirement benefit obligation by $74 million.

Average retirement age is assumed based on the annual rates of
    retirement experienced by Schering-Plough.

Components
    of Net Periodic Benefit Costs   

The net pension and other post-retirement benefit costs totaled
    $223 million, $204 million, and $165 million in
    2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

The components of net pension and other post-retirement benefits
    expense were as follows:

87

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Benefit
    Obligations   

The components of the changes in the benefit obligations were as
    follows:

Funded
    Status and Balance Sheet Presentation   

The components of the changes in plan assets were as follows:

88

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The increase in the benefit obligations and retirement plan
    assets at December 31, 2007 is primarily due to the
    acquisition
     and/or  plan
    transfers related to Schering-Plough s acquisition of OBS
    in November 2007. The OBS benefit obligations and retirement
    plan assets are based on a preliminary estimate of fair value.

In addition to the plan assets indicated above, at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, securities investments of
    $75 million and $71 million, respectively, were held
    in a non-qualified trust designated to provide pension benefits
    for certain under-funded plans.

In accordance with SFAS No. 158, at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, the net asset of the over-funded plans was
    $42 million and $21 million, respectively, all of
    which related to Schering-Plough s retirement plans, and is
    included in other long-term assets. The net liability from the
    under-funded plans at December 31, 2007 and 2006, totaled
    $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, as
    follows:

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the accumulated benefit
    obligations (ABO) for the retirement plans were
    $3.6 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. The
    aggregated accumulated benefit obligations and fair values of
    plan assets for retirement plans with accumulated benefit
    obligations in excess of plan assets were $2.7 billion and
    $2.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007, and
    $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, at
    December 31, 2006.

Plan
    Assets at Fair Value   

The asset allocation for the consolidated retirement plans at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the target allocation for
    2008 are as follows:

The asset allocation for the post-retirement benefit trusts at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the target allocation for
    2008 are as follows:

Schering-Plough s investments related to these plans are
    broadly diversified, consisting primarily of equities and fixed
    income securities, with an objective of generating long-term
    investment returns that are

89

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

consistent with an acceptable level of overall portfolio market
    value risk. The assets are periodically rebalanced back to the
    target allocations.

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments   

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future
    service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:

Schering-Plough s practice is to fund qualified pension
    plans at least at sufficient amounts to meet the minimum
    requirements set forth in applicable laws. Schering-Plough
    expects to contribute approximately $215 million to its
    retirement plans during 2008, including a minimum of
    approximately $55 million to the U.S. Schering-Plough
    Retirement Plan.

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

Schering-Plough maintains defined contribution savings plans in
    the U.S. including a plan acquired as part of the OBS
    acquisition. For the largest U.S. plan, Schering-Plough
    makes contributions to the plan equal to three percent of
    eligible employee earnings, plus a matching contribution of up
    to two percent of eligible employee earnings based on employee
    contributions. The total Schering-Plough contributions to this
    plan in 2007 and 2006 were $77 million and
    $70 million, respectively.

Schering-Plough also maintains defined contribution retirement
    plans in various other jurisdictions. Schering-Plough s
    contributions to these plans in 2007 and 2006 were not material.

9.    

EARNINGS
    PER COMMON SHARE  

The following table reconciles the components of the basic and
    diluted earnings/(loss) per share computations:

During the third quarter of 2007, Schering-Plough s 2004
    mandatory convertible preferred stock converted into
    65 million common shares. These common shares are included
    in the weighted average shares calculation for the period after
    conversion.

90

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    45 million, 65 million, and 69 million common
    shares, respectively, obtainable upon conversion of the 2004
    mandatory convertible preferred stock were excluded from the
    computation of diluted (loss)/earnings per common share because
    their effect would have been antidilutive on a weighted average
    basis for the period prior to conversion.

In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    approximately 91 million common shares obtainable upon
    conversion of the 2007 mandatory convertible preferred stock
    were excluded from the computation of diluted (loss)/earnings
    common per share because their effect would have been
    antidilutive.

The equivalent common shares issuable under
    Schering-Plough s stock incentive plans that were excluded
    from the computation of diluted (loss)/earnings per common share
    because their effect would have been antidilutive were
    100 million, 48 million, and 39 million,
    respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006,
    and 2005, respectively.

Schering-Plough issued 57,500,000 of common shares on
    August 15, 2007. These common shares are included in the
    weighted-average shares calculation for the period after
    issuance. See note 16  Shareholders 
    Equity,  for additional information.

10.    

ACCUMULATED
    OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS  

The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:

(1)  

See Note 8,  Retirement Plans and Other Postretirement
    Benefits,  for additional information regarding the impacts
    on Schering-Plough s financial statements upon the adoption
    of SFAS No. 158. 

Included in foreign currency translation adjustment during 2007
    is a $23 million charge to comprehensive loss from
    Schering-Plough s euro-denominated debt instruments which
    have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges
    of the net investment in a foreign operation.

Effective December 31, 2006, Schering-Plough accounts for
    its retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans in
    accordance with SFAS No. 158. The implementation of
    SFAS No. 158 resulted in an increase of
    $521 million, net of tax effects, to accumulated other
    comprehensive loss that reduced shareholders  equity.

During 2007, Schering-Plough executed a series of interest rate
    swaps in anticipation of financing the acquisition of OBS. The
    objective of the swaps was to hedge the interest rate payments
    to be made on future issuances of debt. As such, the swaps were
    designated as cash flow hedges of future interest rate payments,
    and in accordance with SFAS 133, the effective portion of
    the gains or losses on the hedges are reported in other
    comprehensive income and any ineffective portion is reported in
    operations. The effective portion of the swaps of
    $12 million was recorded in other comprehensive income and
    is being recognized as interest expense over the life of the
    related debt. During the year ended December 31, 2007,
    $1 million of the effective portion of the interest rate
    swaps was recognized as interest expense. $2 million is
    expected to be recognized as interest expense during 2008.

91

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Gross unrealized pre-tax gains on investments in 2007 and 2006
    were $1 million and $4 million, respectively;
    unrealized losses were immaterial.

Inventories consisted of the following at December 31:

Included in other assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 is
    $96 million and $71 million, respectively, of
    inventory not expected to be sold within one year.

Inventories valued on a
     last-in, 
    first-out (LIFO) basis comprised approximately 9 percent
    and 20 percent of total inventories at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. The estimated replacement cost of
    total inventories at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was
    $4.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. The cost
    of all other inventories is determined by the
     first-in, 
    first-out method (FIFO).

12.    

GOODWILL
    AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

During 2007, as part of the purchase accounting for the
    acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough recorded $2.7 billion
    of goodwill, of which $1.8 billion has been assigned to the
    Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment and $888 million
    has been assigned to the Animal Health segment. None of the
    goodwill related to the OBS acquisition is deductible for income
    tax purposes.

The following table summarizes goodwill activity during the
    years ending December 31,

92

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

The components of other intangible assets, net, are as follows
    at December 31:

Patents, trademarks and licenses are amortized on the
    straight-line method over their respective useful lives. The
    residual value of intangible assets is estimated to be zero.

During 2007, as part of the purchase accounting for the
    acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough recorded $6.8 billion
    of other intangible assets. See Note 2,
     Acquisition,  for additional information.

Amortization expense related to other intangible assets in 2007,
    2006, and 2005 was $107 million, $47 million, and
    $49 million, respectively, and is included in cost of sales
    in the Statement of Consolidated Operations. All intangible
    assets are reviewed to determine their recoverability by
    comparing their carrying values to their expected undiscounted
    future cash flows when events or circumstances warrant such a
    review. Annual amortization expenses related to these intangible
    assets for the years 2008 to 2013 is expected to be
    approximately $570 million.

In August 2005, Schering-Plough exercised its right to develop
    and commercialize with Centocor, Inc. (Centocor), golimumab, a
    new anti-TNF-alpha monoclonal antibody being developed as a
    therapy for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other
    immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. Pursuant to the exercise,
    Schering-Plough received exclusive worldwide marketing rights to
    golimumab, excluding the U.S., Japan, China (including Hong
    Kong), Taiwan, and Indonesia. In exchange for its rights under
    this agreement, Schering-Plough made an upfront payment in the
    amount of $124 million to Centocor before a tax benefit of
    $6 million. This payment was included in research and
    development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005.
    Schering-Plough is sharing development costs with Centocor.

In December 2007, Schering-Plough and Centocor revised their
    distribution agreement regarding the development,
    commercialization and distribution of both REMICADE and
    golimumab, extending Schering-Plough s rights to
    exclusively market REMICADE to match the duration of
    Schering-Plough s exclusive marketing rights for golimumab.
    Effective upon regulatory approval of golimumab in the EU,
    Schering-Plough s marketing rights for both products will
    now extend for 15 years after the first commercial sale of
    golimumab within the EU. Centocor will receive a progressively
    increased share of profits on Schering-Plough s
    distribution of both products in the Schering-Plough marketing
    territory between 2010 and 2014, and the share of profits will
    remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the term. The
    changes to the duration of REMICADE marketing rights and the
    profit sharing arrangement for the products are all conditioned
    on approval of golimumab being granted prior to
    September 1, 2014. Schering-Plough may independently
    develop and market golimumab for a Crohn s disease
    indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to
    participate. In addition, Schering-Plough and Centocor agreed to
    utilize an autoinjector device in the commercialization of
    golimumab and further agreed to share its development costs. For
    the rights to this device, Schering-Plough made an upfront
    payment of $21 million, which is included in research and
    development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007

Effective September 1, 2005, Schering-Plough restructured
    its INTEGRILIN co-promotion agreement with Millennium. Under the
    terms of the restructured agreement, Schering-Plough acquired
    exclusive

93

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

U.S. development and commercialization rights to INTEGRILIN
    in exchange for an upfront payment of $36 million and
    royalties on INTEGRILIN sales. Schering-Plough has agreed to pay
    minimum royalties of $85 million per year to Millennium for
    2006 and 2007. Schering-Plough also purchased existing
    INTEGRILIN inventory from Millennium. The $36 million
    upfront payment has been capitalized and included in other
    intangible assets.

14.    

BORROWINGS
    AND OTHER COMMITMENTS  

Short
    and Long-Term Borrowings   

Schering-Plough s outstanding borrowings at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

Schering-Plough s short-term borrowings consist of
    primarily bank loans and commercial paper issued in the
    U.S. The weighted average interest rate on short-term
    borrowings was 7.9 percent and 6.4 percent at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Senior
    unsecured notes  

On October 1, 2007, Schering-Plough issued
    Euro 500 million aggregate principal amount of
    5.00 percent senior unsecured euro-denominated notes due
    2010 and Euro 1.5 billion aggregate principal amount
    of 5.375 percent senior unsecured euro-denominated notes
    due 2014. The net proceeds from this offering were approximately
    $2.8 billion. Interest on the notes is payable annually.
    The effective interest rate on the 5.00 percent senior
    unsecured euro-denominated notes and the 5.375 percent
    senior unsecured euro-denominated notes, which incorporates the
    initial discount, debt issuance fees and the impact of interest
    rate hedges, is 5.10 percent and 5.46 percent,
    respectively. The interest rate payable on these notes is not
    subject to adjustment. The notes generally restrict
    Schering-Plough from creating or assuming liens or entering into
    sale and leaseback transactions unless the aggregate outstanding
    indebtedness secured by any such liens and related to any such
    sale and leaseback transactions does not exceed 10 percent
    of consolidated net tangible assets. These notes are redeemable
    in whole or in part, at Schering-Plough s option at any
    time, at a redemption price specified in the prospectus. If a
    change of control triggering event occurs, as defined in the
    prospectus, holders of the notes will have the right to require
    Schering-Plough to repurchase all or any part of the notes for a
    cash

94

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

payment equal to 101 percent of the aggregate principal
    amount of the notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid
    interest, if any, to the date of purchase.

On September 17, 2007, Schering-Plough issued
    $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
    6.00 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017 and
    $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
    6.55 percent senior unsecured notes due 2037. The net
    proceeds from this offering were approximately
    $2.0 billion. Interest on the notes is payable
    semi-annually. The effective interest rate on the
    6.00 percent senior unsecured notes and the
    6.55 percent senior unsecured notes, which incorporates the
    initial discount and debt issuance fees, is 6.13 percent
    and 6.67 percent, respectively. The interest rate payable
    on these notes is not subject to adjustment. The notes generally
    restrict Schering-Plough from creating or assuming liens or
    entering into sale and leaseback transactions unless the
    aggregate outstanding indebtedness secured by any such liens and
    related to any such sale and leaseback transactions does not
    exceed 10 percent of consolidated net tangible assets.
    These notes are redeemable in whole or in part, at
    Schering-Plough s option at any time, at a redemption price
    equal to the greater of (1) 100 percent of the
    principal amount of such notes and (2) the sum of the
    present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal
    and interest discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual
    basis using the rate of Treasury Notes with comparable remaining
    terms plus 25 basis points for the 2017 notes or
    30 basis points for the 2037 notes. If a change of control
    triggering event occurs, as defined in the prospectus, holders
    of the notes will have the right to require Schering-Plough to
    repurchase all or any part of the notes for a cash payment equal
    to 101 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the
    notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to
    the date of purchase.

Schering-Plough used the net proceeds from the issuance of these
    senior unsecured notes to fund a portion of the purchase price
    for the OBS acquisition. See Note 2,
     Acquisition. 

On November 26, 2003, Schering-Plough issued
    $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of
    5.3 percent senior unsecured notes due 2013 and
    $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of
    6.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2033. The net
    proceeds from this offering were $2.37 billion. Interest on
    the notes is payable semi-annually and subject to rate
    adjustment as follows: If the rating assigned to a particular
    series of notes by either Moody s Investors Service, Inc.
    (Moody s) or Standard   Poor s Rating
    Services (S P) changes to a rating set forth below, the
    interest rate payable on that series of notes will be the
    initial interest rate (5.3 percent for the notes due 2013
    and 6.5 percent for the notes due 2033) plus the
    additional interest rate set forth below by Moody s and
    S P:

In no event will the interest rate for any of the notes increase
    by more than 2 percent above the initial coupon rates of
    5.3 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively. If either
    Moody s or S P subsequently upgrades its ratings, the
    interest rates will be correspondingly reduced, but not below
    5.3 percent or 6.5 percent, respectively. Furthermore,
    the interest rate payable on a particular series of notes will
    return to 5.3 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively,
    and the rate adjustment provisions will permanently cease to
    apply if, following a downgrade by either Moody s or
    S P below A3 or A , respectively, the notes are
    subsequently rated above Baa1 by Moody s and BBB+ by
    S P.

Upon issuance, the notes were rated A3 by Moody s and A+ by
    S P. On July 14, 2004, Moody s lowered its rating
    of the notes to Baa1 and, accordingly, the interest payable on
    each note increased by 25 basis points, effective
    December 1, 2004, resulted in a 5.55 percent the
    interest rate payable on the notes due 2013, and a
    6.75 percent the interest rate payable on the notes due
    2033 increased. At December 31, 2007, the notes were rated
    Baa1 by Moody s and A  by S P.

95

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

These senior unsecured notes are redeemable in whole or in part,
    at Schering-Plough s option at any time, at a redemption
    price equal to the greater of (1) 100 percent of the
    principal amount of such notes and (2) the sum of the
    present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal
    and interest discounted using the rate of Treasury Notes with
    comparable remaining terms plus 25 basis points for the
    2013 notes or 35 basis points for the 2033 notes.

Term
    Loan  

On October 24, 2007, Schering-Plough entered into a
    five-year senior unsecured euro-denominated term loan facility
    with a syndicate of banks. On October 31, 2007,
    Schering-Plough drew Euro 1.1 billion
    ($1.6 billion) on this term loan to fund a portion of the
    purchase price for the OBS acquisition. See Note 2,
     Acquisition,  for additional information. This new
    term loan has a floating interest rate (4.95% weighted average
    rate for 2007) and requires Schering-Plough to maintain a net
    debt to total capital ratio of no more than 65 percent
    through 2009 and 60 percent thereafter, in which net debt
    equals total debt less cash, cash equivalents, short-term
    investments and marketable securities and total capital equals
    the sum of total debt and total shareholders  equity
    excluding the cumulative effect of acquired in-process research
    and development in connection with any acquisition consummated
    after the closing of the term loan. The term loan also generally
    restricts Schering-Plough from creating or assuming liens or
    entering into sale and leaseback transactions unless the
    aggregate outstanding indebtedness secured by any such liens and
    related to any such sale and leaseback transactions does not
    exceed 12 percent of consolidated net tangible assets.

In addition, Schering-Plough s international subsidiaries
    had approximately $608 million available in unused lines of
    credit from various financial institutions at December 31,
    2007.

Aggregate
    Amount of Maturities  

The aggregate amount of maturities for all long-term debt for
    each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

Credit
    Facilities   

On August 9, 2007, Schering-Plough entered into a
    $2.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of
    banks and terminated its $1.5 billion credit facility that
    was to mature in May 2009. This credit facility has a floating
    interest rate, matures in August 2012 and requires
    Schering-Plough to maintain a net debt to total capital ratio of
    no more than 65 percent through 2009 and 60 percent
    thereafter, in which net debt equals total debt less cash, cash
    equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities
    and total capital equals the sum of total debt and total
    shareholders  equity excluding the cumulative effect of
    acquired in-process research and development in connection with
    any acquisition consummated after the closing of the credit
    facility. The credit facility also generally restricts
    Schering-Plough from creating or assuming liens or entering into
    sale and leaseback transactions unless the aggregate outstanding
    indebtedness secured by any such liens and related to any such
    sale and leaseback transactions does not exceed 12 percent
    of consolidated net tangible assets. This credit line is
    available for general corporate purposes and is considered as
    support to Schering-Plough s commercial paper borrowings.
    Borrowings under this credit facility may be drawn by the
    U.S. parent company or by its wholly-owned international
    subsidiaries when accompanied by a parent guarantee. This
    facility does not require compensating balances, however, a
    nominal commitment fee is paid. As of December 31, 2007, no
    borrowings were outstanding under this facility.

Schering-Plough had a $1.5 billion credit facility that was
    terminated in August 2007. As of December 31, 2005,
    $325 million was drawn under this facility by a
    wholly-owned international subsidiary for the purposes

96

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

of funding repatriations under the AJCA. During 2006, this
    borrowing amount was fully repaid. As of December 31, 2006,
    no borrowings were outstanding under this facility.

In addition to the above credit facility, Schering-Plough
    entered into a $575 million credit facility during the
    fourth quarter of 2005 for the purposes of funding repatriations
    under the AJCA. As of December 31, 2005, the entire amount
    was drawn by a wholly-owned international subsidiary to fund the
    repatriations. This facility was paid in full and terminated in
    2006.

Other
    Commitments   

Total rent expense amounted to $156 million,
    $118 million and $110 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Future annual minimum rental commitments in the
    next five years on non-cancelable operating leases as of
    December 31, 2007, are as follows: 2008, $338 million;
    2009, $199 million; 2010, $131 million; 2011,
    $95 million; and 2012, $73 million, with aggregate
    minimum lease obligations of $71 million due thereafter.

At December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough has commitments
    totaling $232 million and $3 million related to
    capital expenditures to be made in 2008 and 2009, respectively.

15.    

FINANCIAL
    INSTRUMENTS  

SFAS 133 requires all derivatives to be recorded on the
    balance sheets at fair value. In addition, this Statement also
    requires: (1) the effective portion of qualifying cash flow
    hedges be recognized in income when the hedged item affects
    income; (2) changes in the fair value of derivatives that
    qualify as fair value hedges, along with the change in the fair
    value of the hedged risk, be recognized as they occur; and
    (3) changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not
    qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion
    of qualifying hedges, be recognized in the statements of
    consolidated operations as they occur.

Risks,
    Policy and Objectives   

Schering-Plough is exposed to market risk, primarily from
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser
    extent, from interest rate and equity price changes. Currently,
    Schering-Plough has not deemed it cost effective to engage in a
    formula-based program of hedging the profits and cash flows of
    international operations using derivative financial instruments,
    but on a limited basis, Schering-Plough will hedge selective
    foreign currency risks with derivatives. Because
    Schering-Plough s international subsidiaries purchase
    significant quantities of inventory payable in
    U.S. dollars, managing the level of inventory and related
    payables and the rate of inventory turnover can provide a
    natural level of protection against adverse changes in exchange
    rates. Furthermore, the risk of adverse exchange rate change is
    somewhat mitigated by the fact that Schering-Plough s
    international operations are widespread.

Schering-Plough s senior unsecured euro-denominated notes
    and euro-denominated term loan have been designated as, and are
    effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign
    operation. In accordance with SFAS No. 52,  Foreign
    Currency Translation,  the foreign currency transaction
    gains or losses on these euro-denominated debt instruments are
    included in foreign currency translation adjustment within other
    comprehensive income.

During 2007, as part of an overall risk management strategy and
    in consideration of various preliminary financing scenarios
    associated with the acquisition of OBS, Schering-Plough
    purchased euro-denominated currency options to mitigate its
    exposure in the event there was a significant strengthening in
    the Euro as compared to the U.S. Dollar. Schering-Plough
    purchased the options for aggregate premiums of approximately
    $165 million and received proceeds of $675 million
    upon the termination of these options, resulting in a net
    realized gain of $510 million. These derivatives did not
    qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS 133.
    Accordingly, the gain on these derivatives was recognized in the
    Statement of Consolidated Operations. These derivatives were
    short-term (trading) in nature and did not hedge a specific
    financing or

97

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

investment transaction. Accordingly, the cash impacts of these
    derivatives have been classified as operating cash flows in the
    Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows. See Note 6,
     Other (Income)/Expense, Net.  As of December 31,
    2007, there were no open foreign currency option contracts.

During 2007, Schering-Plough executed a series of interest rate
    swaps in anticipation of financing the acquisition of OBS. The
    objective of the swaps was to hedge the interest rate payments
    to be made on future issuances of debt. As such, the swaps were
    designated as cash flow hedges of future interest payments, and
    in accordance with SFAS 133, the effective portion of the
    gains or losses on the hedges are reported in other
    comprehensive income and any ineffective portion is reported in
    operations. In connection with the euro-denominated debt
    issuances as described in Note 14,  Borrowings and
    Other Commitments,  portions of the swaps were deemed
    ineffective and Schering-Plough recognized a $7 million
    loss in the Statement of Consolidated Operations. The effective
    portion of the swaps of $12 million was recorded in other
    comprehensive income and is being recognized as interest expense
    over the life of the related debt. The cash flows related to
    these interest rate swaps have been classified as operating cash
    flows in the Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows. See
    Note 6,  Other (Income)/Expense, Net.  As of
    December 31, 2007, there were no open interest rate swaps.

Schering-Plough mitigates credit risk on derivative instruments
    by dealing only with counterparties considered to be of high
    credit quality. Accordingly, Schering-Plough does not anticipate
    loss for non-performance. Schering-Plough does not enter into
    derivative instruments in a manner to generate trading profits.
    Schering-Plough classifies cash flows from derivatives accounted
    for as hedges in the same category as the item being hedged.

The table below presents the carrying values and estimated fair
    values for certain of Schering-Plough s financial
    instruments at December 31 2007 and 2006. Estimated fair values
    were determined based on market prices, where available, or
    dealer quotes. The carrying values of all other financial
    instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, approximated
    their estimated fair values at December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Long-term
    Investments   

Long-term investments, which are included in other non-current
    assets, primarily consist of debt and equity securities held in
    non-qualified trusts to fund long-term employee benefit
    obligations, which are included as liabilities in the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. These assets can only be used to
    fund the related employee benefit obligations.

16.    

SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY  

Preferred
    Shares   

As of December 31, 2007, Schering-Plough has authorized
    50,000,000 shares of preferred stock that consists of
    11,500,000 preferred shares designated as
    6 percent Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and

98

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

38,500,000 preferred shares whose designations have not yet been
    determined. As of December 31, 2007, 10,000,000 of the
    shares of 6 percent Mandatory Convertible Preferred
    Stock are issued and outstanding.

2007
    Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock  

On August 15, 2007, Schering-Plough issued
    10,000,000 shares of 6 percent Mandatory
    Convertible Preferred Stock (the 2007 Preferred Stock) with a
    face value of $2.5 billion. Net proceeds to Schering-Plough
    were approximately $2.4 billion after deducting
    commissions, discounts and other underwriting expenses.
    Schering-Plough used the net proceeds from the sale of the 2007
    Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the purchase price for the
    OBS acquisition. See Note 2,  Acquisition , for
    additional information.

Each share of the 2007 Preferred Stock will automatically
    convert into between 7.4206 and 9.0909 common shares of
    Schering-Plough depending on the average closing price of
    Schering-Plough s common shares over the 20 trading day
    period ending on the third trading day prior to the mandatory
    conversion date of August 13, 2010, as defined in the
    prospectus. The preferred shareholders may elect to convert at
    any time prior to August 13, 2010, at the minimum
    conversion ratio of 7.4206 common shares per share of the 2007
    Preferred Stock. Additionally, if at any time prior to the
    mandatory conversion date the closing price of
    Schering-Plough s common shares exceeds $50.53 (for at
    least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading
    days), Schering-Plough may elect to cause the conversion of all,
    but not less than all, of the 2007 Preferred Stock then
    outstanding at the same minimum conversion ratio of 7.4206
    common shares for each share of 2007 Preferred Stock.

The 2007 Preferred Stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of
    6 percent on shares outstanding. The dividends are
    cumulative from the date of issuance and, to the extent
    Schering-Plough is legally permitted to pay dividends and the
    Board of Directors declares a dividend payable, Schering-Plough
    will pay dividends on each dividend payment date. The dividend
    payment dates are February 15, May 15, August 15 and
    November 15 of each year, with the first dividend to be paid on
    November 15, 2007.

2004
    Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock  

During the year ended December 31, 2007, all shares of
    6 percent Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock issued
    on August 10, 2004 (the 2004 Preferred Stock) were
    converted into 64,584,929 shares of Schering-Plough common
    stock. Following conversion, all 28,750,000 shares of 2004
    Preferred Stock resumed their status as authorized and unissued
    preferred stock, undesignated as to series and available for
    future issuance.

Equity
    Issuance and Treasury Shares   

On August 15, 2007, Schering-Plough issued 57,500,000
    common shares from treasury shares at $27.50 per share. Net
    proceeds to Schering-Plough were approximately $1.5 billion
    after deducting commissions, discounts and other underwriting
    expenses. Schering-Plough used the net proceeds from the sale of
    the common shares to fund a portion of the purchase price for
    the OBS acquisition. See Note 2,  Acquisition, 
    for additional information.

A summary of treasury share transactions for the years ended
    December 31 is as follows:

Included in the treasury share balance is 70.2 million
    shares that were acquired by a subsidiary of Schering-Plough
    through an open-market purchase program in
     1994-1995. 
    These shares are not considered

99

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

treasury shares under New Jersey law; however, like treasury
    shares, they may not be voted and are not considered outstanding
    shares for determining the necessary votes to approve a matter
    submitted to a stockholder vote. The subsidiary does not receive
    dividends on these shares.

Effective September 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of
    Schering-Plough adopted an amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation, reflecting both the automatic conversion of the
    2004 Preferred Stock issued into shares of common stock on
    September 14, 2007 and the terms of the 2007 Preferred
    Stock.

Schering-Plough maintains insurance coverage with such
    deductibles and self-insurance as management believes adequate
    for its needs under current circumstances. Such coverage
    reflects market conditions (including cost and availability)
    existing at the time it is written, and the relationship of
    insurance coverage to self-insurance varies accordingly.
    Schering-Plough self-insures a substantial proportion of risk as
    it relates to products  liability, as the availability of
    commercial insurance has become more restrictive.
    Schering-Plough continually assesses the best way to provide for
    its insurance needs

18.    

SEGMENT
    INFORMATION  

Schering-Plough has three reportable segments: Human
    Prescription Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health and Consumer Health
    Care. The segment sales and (loss)/profit data that follow are
    consistent with Schering-Plough s current management
    reporting structure. The Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals
    segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets human
    pharmaceutical products. The Animal Health segment discovers,
    develops, manufactures and markets animal health products. The
    Consumer Health Care segment develops, manufactures and markets
    over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products, primarily in
    the U.S.

100

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Net
    Sales by Major Product and by Segment:   

Net
    Sales by Geographic Area:   

101

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Schering-Plough has subsidiaries in more than 55 countries
    outside the U.S. Net sales are presented in the geographic
    area in which Schering-Plough s customers are located. The
    following foreign countries accounted for 5 percent or more
    of consolidated net sales during the past three years:

Net
    sales by customer:   

Sales to a single customer that accounted for 10 percent or
    more of Schering-Plough s consolidated net sales during the
    past three years are as follows:

(Loss)/Profit
    by segment   

(1)  

In 2007, the Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment s
    loss includes $3.4 billion of purchase accounting items,
    including acquired in-process research and development of
    $3.2 billion. In 2007, the Animal Health segment s
    loss includes $721 million of purchase accounting items,
    including acquired in-process research and development of
    $600 million. 

Schering-Plough s net sales do not include sales of VYTORIN
    and ZETIA, which are managed in the joint venture with Merck, as
    Schering-Plough accounts for this joint venture under the equity
    method of accounting (see Note 4,  Equity
    Income,  for additional information). The Human
    Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment includes equity income from
    the Merck/Schering-Plough joint venture.

Corporate and other  includes interest income and
    expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, currency option
    gains, headquarters expenses, special charges and other
    miscellaneous items. The accounting policies

102

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

used for segment reporting are the same as those described in
    Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies. 

In 2007,  Corporate and other  includes special and
    acquisition related charges of $84 million, comprised of
    $61 million of integration-related costs for the OBS
    acquisition and $23 million of severance charges as part of
    integration activities. It is estimated the charges relate to
    the reportable segments as follows: Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals   $27 million, Animal
    Health   $11 million and Corporate and
    other   $46 million.

In 2006,  Corporate and other  includes special
    charges of $102 million primarily related to changes to
    Schering-Plough s manufacturing operations in the
    U.S. and Puerto Rico announced in June 2006, all of which
    related to the Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals segment.
    Included in 2006 cost of sales were charges of approximately
    $146 million from the manufacturing streamlining actions
    that were primarily related to the Human Prescription
    Pharmaceuticals segment.

In 2005,  Corporate and other  includes special
    charges of $294 million, including $28 million of
    employee termination costs, $16 million of asset impairment
    and other charges, and an increase in litigation reserves by
    $250 million resulting in a total reserve of
    $500 million representing Schering-Plough s current
    estimate to resolve the Massachusetts Investigation as well as
    the investigations and the state litigation disclosed under
     AWP Litigation and Investigations  in Note 20,
     Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters.  It is
    estimated that the charges relate to the reportable segments as
    follows: Human Prescription Pharmaceuticals  
    $289 million; Consumer Health Care  
    $2 million; Animal Health   $1 million; and
    Corporate and other   $2 million.

Supplemental
    sales information:   

Sales of products comprising 10 percent or more of
    Schering-Plough s U.S. or international sales for the
    year ended December 31, 2007, were as follows:

Long-lived
    Assets by Geographic Location   

Long-lived assets shown by geographic location are primarily
    intangibles and property. The significant increase in long-lived
    assets as of December 31, 2007 is due to the OBS
    acquisition.

Schering-Plough does not disaggregate assets on a segment basis
    for internal management reporting and, therefore, such
    information is not presented.

103

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

In May 2002, Schering-Plough agreed with the FDA to the entry of
    a Consent Decree to resolve issues related to compliance with
    current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at certain of
    Schering-Plough s facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico
    (the  Consent Decree  or the  Decree ). In
    summary, the Decree required Schering-Plough to make payments
    totaling $500 million in two equal installments of
    $250 million, which were paid in 2002 and 2003. In
    addition, the Decree required Schering-Plough to complete
    revalidation programs for manufacturing processes used to
    produce bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished drug
    products at the covered facilities, as well as to implement a
    comprehensive cGMP Work Plan for each such facility.
    Schering-Plough completed all of the requirements in accordance
    with the schedules required by the Decree and obtained
    third-party certification of its completion of the Work Plan as
    required under the Decree.

On August 2, 2007, Schering-Plough announced the
    dissolution of the Consent Decree by the U.S. District
    Court for the District of New Jersey.

20.  LEGAL,
    ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS  

Background   

Schering-Plough is involved in various claims, investigations
    and legal proceedings.

Schering-Plough records a liability for contingencies when it is
    probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can
    be reasonably estimated. Schering-Plough adjusts its liabilities
    for contingencies to reflect the current best estimate of
    probable loss or minimum liability, as the case may be. Where no
    best estimate is determinable, Schering-Plough records the
    minimum amount within the most probable range of its liability.
    Expected insurance recoveries have not been considered in
    determining the amounts of recorded liabilities for
    environmental related matters.

If Schering-Plough believes that a loss contingency is
    reasonably possible, rather than probable, or the amount of loss
    cannot be estimated, no liability is recorded. However, where a
    liability is reasonably possible, disclosure of the loss
    contingency is made.

Schering-Plough reviews the status of all claims, investigations
    and legal proceedings on an ongoing basis, including related
    insurance coverages. From time to time, Schering-Plough may
    settle or otherwise resolve these matters on terms and
    conditions management believes are in the best interests of
    Schering-Plough. Resolution of any or all claims, investigations
    and legal proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, could
    have a material adverse effect on Schering-Plough s
    consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial
    condition.

Except for the matters discussed in the remainder of this Note,
    the recorded liabilities for contingencies at December 31,
    2007, and the related expenses incurred during the year ended
    December 31, 2007, were not material. In the opinion of
    management, based on the advice of legal counsel, the ultimate
    outcome of these matters, except matters discussed in the
    remainder of this Note, will not have a material impact on
    Schering-Plough s consolidated results of operations, cash
    flows or financial condition.

ENHANCE
    Matter   

On January 14, 2008, the Merck / Schering-Plough
    cholesterol joint venture announced the primary endpoint and
    other results of the ENHANCE (Effect of Combination Ezetimibe
    and High-Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the
    Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with Heterozygous Familial
    Hypercholesterolemia) clinical trial. Schering-Plough
    encountered a challenge when results of the ENHANCE trial and
    joint venture products, ZETIA and VYTORIN, became the subject of
    much media scrutiny prior to fuller discussions of the trial
    results at appropriate medical forums. A discussion is scheduled
    for the American College of Cardiology meeting on March 30,
    2008.

Schering-Plough, the joint venture and/or its joint venture
    partner, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Merck ), have
    received several letters from Congress, including the House
    Committee on Energy and Commerce, the House Subcommittee on
    Oversight and Investigations, and the ranking minority member of
    the Senate Finance

104

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Committee, collectively seeking a combination of witness
    interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues
    related to the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint
    venture s ENHANCE clinical trial, the companies  sale
    and promotion of VYTORIN, as well as sales of stock by the
    companies  corporate officers since April 2006; and several
    subpoenas from state officials (such as the State Attorney
    General or State Department of Justice) in several states,
    including Connecticut, New York and Oregon, seeking similar
    information and documents.

Schering-Plough is cooperating with these investigations and
    working with Merck to respond to the inquiries.

In addition, since mid-January 2008, Schering-Plough has become
    aware of or been served with litigation, including civil class
    action lawsuits alleging common law and state consumer fraud
    claims in connection with Schering-Plough s sale and
    promotion of the Merck/Schering-Plough joint-venture
    products  VYTORIN and ZETIA; several putative shareholder
    securities class action lawsuits (where several officers are
    also named defendants) alleging false and misleading statements
    and omissions by Schering-Plough and its representatives related
    to the timing of disclosures concerning the ENHANCE results,
    allegedly in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934; a Shareholder Derivative Action
    alleging that the Board of Directors breached its fiduciary
    obligations relating to the timing of the release of the ENHANCE
    results; and a letter on behalf of a single shareholder
    requesting that the Board of Directors investigate the
    allegations of the putative securities class actions and, if
    warranted, bring any appropriate legal action on behalf of
    Schering-Plough.

Schering-Plough is cooperating fully in the government
    investigations and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuits
    that have been filed related to the ENHANCE study.

Patent
    Matters   

As described in  Patents, Trademarks, and Other
    Intellectual Property Rights  under Item I, Business,
    of this
     10-K, 
    intellectual property protection is critical to
    Schering-Plough s ability to successfully commercialize its
    product innovations. The potential for litigation regarding
    Schering-Plough s intellectual property rights always
    exists and may be initiated by third parties attempting to
    abridge Schering-Plough s rights, as well as by
    Schering-Plough in protecting its rights. Patent matters
    described below have a potential material effect on
    Schering-Plough.

DR.   

SCHOLL S
    FREEZE AWAY  

On July 26, 2004, OraSure Technologies filed an action in
    the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania alleging patent infringement by Schering-Plough
    Healthcare Products by its sale of DR. SCHOLL S FREEZE AWAY
    wart removal product. This matter was settled with no material
    impact on Schering-Plough s financial statements and a
    stipulation dismissing the action was filed by the parties on
    February 15, 2008.

AWP
    Litigation and Investigations   

Schering-Plough continues to respond to existing and new
    litigation by certain states and private payors and
    investigations by the Department of Health and Human Services,
    the Department of Justice and several states into industry and
    Schering-Plough practices regarding average wholesale price
    (AWP). Schering-Plough is cooperating with these investigations.

These litigations and investigations relate to whether the AWP
    used by pharmaceutical companies for certain drugs improperly
    exceeds the average prices paid by providers and, as a
    consequence, results in unlawful inflation of certain
    reimbursements for drugs by state programs and private payors
    that are based on AWP. The complaints allege violations of
    federal and state law, including fraud, Medicaid fraud and
    consumer protection violations, among other claims. In the
    majority of cases, the plaintiffs are seeking class
    certifications. In some cases, classes have been certified. The
    outcome of these litigations and investigations could include
    substantial damages, the imposition of substantial fines,
    penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies.

105

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

Securities
    and Class Action Litigation   

Federal
    Securities Litigation  

Following Schering-Plough s announcement that the FDA had
    been conducting inspections of Schering-Plough s
    manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico and had
    issued reports citing deficiencies concerning compliance with
    current Good Manufacturing Practices, several lawsuits were
    filed against Schering-Plough and certain named officers. These
    lawsuits allege that the defendants violated the federal
    securities law by allegedly failing to disclose material
    information and making material misstatements. Specifically,
    they allege that Schering-Plough failed to disclose an alleged
    serious risk that a new drug application for CLARINEX would be
    delayed as a result of these manufacturing issues, and they
    allege that Schering-Plough failed to disclose the alleged depth
    and severity of its manufacturing issues. These complaints were
    consolidated into one action in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of New Jersey, and a consolidated amended complaint
    was filed on October 11, 2001, purporting to represent a
    class of shareholders who purchased shares of Schering-Plough
    stock from May 9, 2000 through February 15, 2001. The
    complaint seeks compensatory damages on behalf of the class. The
    Court certified the shareholder class on October 10, 2003.
    Notice of pendency of the class action was sent to members of
    that class in July 2007. Discovery has been completed, and
    motions for summary judgment have been briefed and are pending.

ERISA
    Litigation  

On March 31, 2003, Schering-Plough was served with a
    putative class action complaint filed in the U.S. District
    Court in New Jersey alleging that Schering-Plough, retired
    Chairman, CEO and President Richard Jay Kogan,
    Schering-Plough s Employee Savings Plan (Plan)
    administrator, several current and former directors, and certain
    corporate officers (Messrs. LaRosa and Moore) breached
    their fiduciary obligations to certain participants in the Plan.
    The complaint seeks damages in the amount of losses allegedly
    suffered by the Plan. The complaint was dismissed on
    June 29, 2004. The plaintiffs appealed. On August 19,
    2005 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
    reversed the dismissal by the District Court and the matter has
    been remanded back to the District Court for further proceedings.

K-DUR
    Antitrust Litigation  

Schering-Plough had settled patent litigation with Upsher-Smith,
    Inc. (Upsher-Smith) and ESI Lederle, Inc. (Lederle) relating to
    generic versions of K-DUR, Schering-Plough s long-acting
    potassium chloride product supplement used by cardiac patients,
    for which Lederle and Upsher Smith had filed Abbreviated New
    Drug Applications. Following the commencement of an FTC
    administrative proceeding alleging anti-competitive effects from
    those settlements (which has been resolved in
    Schering-Plough s favor), alleged class action suits were
    filed in federal and state courts on behalf of direct and
    indirect purchasers of K-DUR against Schering-Plough,
    Upsher-Smith and Lederle. These suits claim violations of
    federal and state antitrust laws, as well as other state
    statutory and common law causes of action. These suits seek
    unspecified damages. Discovery is ongoing.

Third-party
    Payor Actions  

Several purported class action litigations have been filed
    following the announcement of the settlement of the
    Massachusetts Investigation. Plaintiffs in these actions seek
    damages on behalf of third-party payors resulting from the
    allegations of off-label promotion and improper payments to
    physicians that were at issue in the Massachusetts Investigation.

Tax
    Matters   

In October 2001, IRS auditors asserted that two interest rate
    swaps that Schering-Plough entered into with an unrelated party
    should be recharacterized as loans from affiliated companies,
    resulting in additional tax liability for the 1991 and 1992 tax
    years. In September 2004, Schering-Plough made payments to the
    IRS in the amount of $194 million for income tax and
    $279 million for interest. Schering-Plough filed refund
    claims for the tax and interest with the IRS in December 2004.
    Following the IRS s denial of Schering-Plough s

106

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued)  

claims for a refund, Schering-Plough filed suit in May 2005 in
    the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey for
    refund of the full amount of the tax and interest. This refund
    litigation is currently being tried in Newark District court.
    Schering-Plough s tax reserves were adequate to cover the
    above-mentioned payments.

Pending
    Administrative Obligations   

In connection with the settlement of an investigation with the
    U.S. Department of Justice and the
    U.S. Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania, Schering-Plough entered into a five-year corporate
    integrity agreement (CIA). The CIA was amended in August of 2006
    in connection with the settlement of the Massachusetts
    Investigation, commencing a new five-year term. Failure to
    comply with the obligations under the CIA could result in
    financial penalties.

Other
    Matters   

Products
    Liability  

Beginning in May of 2007, a number of complaints have been filed
    in various jurisdictions asserting claims against Organon USA,
    Inc., Organon Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.,
     and/or 
    Organon International ( Organon ) arising from
    Schering-Plough s marketing and sale of NUVARING, a
    combined hormonal contraceptive vaginal ring. The plaintiffs
    contend that Organon failed to adequately warn of the alleged
    increased risk of venous thromboembolism ( VTE ) posed
    by NUVARING,
     and/or 
    downplayed the risk of VTE. The plaintiffs seek damages, heart
    attacks and strokes. The majority of the cases are currently
    pending in the United States District Court for District of New
    Jersey. Other cases are pending in Wisconsin, Missouri, New York
    and Georgia.

French
    Matter  

Based on a complaint to the French competition authority from a
    competitor in France and pursuant to a court order, the French
    competition authority has obtained documents from a French
    subsidiary of Schering-Plough relating to SUBUTEX, one of the
    products that the subsidiary markets and sells. Any resolution
    of this matter adverse to the French subsidiary could result in
    the imposition of civil fines and injunctive or administrative
    remedies. On July 17, 2007, the Juge des Libert s et
    de la D tention ordered the annulment of the search and
    seizure on procedural grounds. On July 19, 2007, the French
    authority appealed the order to the French Supreme Court.

In April 2007, the competitor also requested interim relief, a
    portion of which was granted by the French competition authority
    in December 2007. The interim relief required
    Schering-Plough s French subsidiary to publish in two
    specialized newspapers information including that the generic
    has the same quantitative and qualitative composition and the
    same pharmaceutical form as, and is substitutable for, SUBUTEX.
    In February 2008, the Paris Court of Appeal confirmed the
    decision of the French competition authority.

Environmental   

Schering-Plough has responsibilities for environmental cleanup
    under various state, local and federal laws, including the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act, commonly known as Superfund. At several Superfund sites (or
    equivalent sites under state law), Schering-Plough is alleged to
    be a potentially responsible party (PRP). Schering-Plough
    believes that it is remote at this time that there is any
    material liability in relation to such sites. Schering-Plough
    estimates its obligations for cleanup costs for Superfund sites
    based on information obtained from the federal Environmental
    Protection Agency (EPA), an equivalent state agency
     and/or 
    studies prepared by independent engineers, and on the probable
    costs to be paid by other PRPs. Schering-Plough records a
    liability for environmental assessments
     and/or 
    cleanup when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the
    amount can be reasonably estimated.

107

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Schering-Plough
    Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries (the
     Company ) at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
    related statements of consolidated operations,
    shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits
    also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
    Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial
    statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
    our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
    schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
    material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment . As
    discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective December 31, 2006, the Company
    adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
    for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans .
    As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. 

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission and our report dated February 29, 2008 expressed
    an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 29, 2008

108

Table of Contents   

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

QUARTERLY
    DATA (UNAUDITED)  

109

Table of Contents   

Operating results for the three month period ended
    December 31, 2007 reflects the closing of the OBS
    acquisition on November 19, 2007, including the impacts of
    purchase accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141,
     Business Combinations. 

Net sales in the third quarter of 2006 included a favorable
    impact of approximately $47 million resulting from the
    reversal of previously accrued rebate amounts for the TRICARE
    Retail Pharmacy Program that a U.S. Federal Court of
    Appeals ruled pharmaceutical manufacturers are not obligated to
    pay.

Diluted earnings per common share for the three month period
    ended September 30, 2007 is calculated using a numerator of
    $731 million, which is the arithmetic sum of net income
    available to common shareholders of $713 million plus
    dividends of $18 million related to the 2004 preferred
    stock which are dilutive, and a denominator of 1,622 which
    represents the average diluted shares outstanding for the third
    quarter of 2007.

See Note 3,  Special and Acquisition Related Charges
    and Manufacturing Changes,  to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional information relating to special and
    acquisition-related charges and charges from
    Schering-Plough s announced manufacturing changes.

Schering-Plough s approximate number of holders of record
    of common shares as of January 31, 2008 was 34,185.

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

Not applicable.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Management, including the chief executive officer and the chief
    financial officer, has evaluated Schering-Plough s
    disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
    covered by this
     10-K  and has
    concluded that Schering-Plough s disclosure controls and
    procedures are effective. They also concluded that there were no
    changes in Schering-Plough s internal control over
    financial reporting that occurred during Schering-Plough s
    most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are
    reasonably likely to materially affect, Schering-Plough s
    internal control over financial reporting.

As part of the changing business environment in which
    Schering-Plough operates, Schering-Plough is replacing and
    upgrading a number of information systems. This process will be
    ongoing for several years. In connection with these changes, as
    part of Schering-Plough s management of both internal
    control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and
    procedures, management has concluded that the new systems are at
    least as effective with respect to those controls as the prior
    systems.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

The Management of Schering-Plough Corporation is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. Schering-Plough s internal control
    system is designed to provide reasonable assurance to
    Schering-Plough s Management and Board of Directors
    regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published
    financial statements.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
    inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
    to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
    respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

110

Table of Contents   

Schering-Plough s Management assessed the effectiveness of
    Schering-Plough s internal control over financial reporting
    as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment,
    Management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework .
    Management s assessment of and conclusion on the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007 did not include a review of the business
    process controls of the OBS N.V. Management did not assess the
    internal control over financial reporting of OBS N.V., because
    the acquisition occurred on November 19, 2007, which is
    within one year prior to the date of the consolidated financial
    statements, as allowable under Securities and Exchange
    Commission guidelines. OBS N.V. represented approximately 18% of
    consolidated total assets at December 31, 2007 and
    approximately 5% of consolidated revenues for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Based on its assessment, Management
    believes that, as of December 31, 2007,
    Schering-Plough s internal control over financial reporting
    is effective.

Schering-Plough s independent registered public accounting
    firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued an attestation
    report on the effectiveness of Schering-Plough s internal
    control over financial reporting. Their report follows.

111

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
     Schering-Plough 
    Corporation

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
     Schering-Plough 
    Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. As described in Management s Report on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its
    assessment the internal control over financial reporting at
    Organon BioSciences N.V., which was acquired on
    November 19, 2007, and whose financial statements
    constitute 18% of total assets and 5% of total revenues of the
    consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year
    ended December 31, 2007. Accordingly, our audit did not
    include the internal control over financial reporting at Organon
    BioSciences N.V. The Company s management is responsible
    for maintaining effective internal control over financial
    reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting, included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission.

112

Table of Contents   

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007, of
    the Company and our report dated February 29, 2008,
    expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements
    and financial statement schedule and included an explanatory
    paragraph regarding the Company s adoption of Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123
    (Revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment ,
    SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans , and
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes .

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 29, 2008

113

Table of Contents   

Part III  

Item 10.      

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Information concerning Directors and nominees for Directors is
    incorporated by reference to  Proposal One: Elect
    Thirteen Directors for a One-Year Term  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

Information concerning executive officers is included in
    Part I of this filing under the caption  Executive
    Officers of the Registrant. 

Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the
    Exchange Act is incorporated by reference to
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

Information concerning the audit committee and the audit
    committee financial expert is incorporated by reference to
     Information About the Audit Committee of the Board of
    Directors and Its Practices  and  Audit Committee
    Report  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

Schering-Plough 
    has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, the Standards
    of Global Business Practices, applicable to all employees,
    including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer
    and controller.
     Schering-Plough s 
    Standards of Global Business Practices are available in the
    Investor Relations section of
     Schering-Plough s 
    website at
     www.schering-plough.com. 
    In addition, a written copy of the materials will be provided at
    no charge by writing to: Office of the Corporate Secretary,
     Schering-Plough 
    Corporation, 2000 Galloping Hill Road, Mail
    Stop: K-1-4-4525, Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033.
     Schering-Plough 
    intends to satisfy any disclosure requirement under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the
    Standards of Global Business Practices by posting such
    information on its website at the address specified above.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Information concerning executive compensation is incorporated by
    reference to  Executive Compensation  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners and management is incorporated by reference to
     Stock Ownership  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

114

Table of Contents   

Equity Compensation Plan Information   The following
    information relates to plans under which equity securities of
     Schering-Plough 
    may be issued to employees or Directors.
     Schering-Plough 
    has no plans under which equity securities may be issued to
    non-employees (except that under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan
    certain stock options may be transferable to family members of
    the employee-optionee or related trusts).

*  

The Plans permit eligible employees who work for certain
     Schering-Plough 
    Irish subsidiaries to enjoy tax advantages by having some or all
    of their annual bonus and an amount varying between
    1 percent and up to 7.5 percent of their pay passed to
    a trustee. The trustee purchases shares of common stock in the
    open market and allocates the shares to the employees 
    accounts. No more than Euro 12,700 may be deferred in a
    year by an employee. Employees may not sell or withdraw shares
    allocated to their accounts for two to three years. 

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions   

Information concerning certain relationships and related
    transactions is incorporated by reference to  Certain
    Transactions  and  Procedures for Related Party
    Transactions and Director Independence Assessments  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

Information concerning director independence is incorporated by
    reference to  Director Independence  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

Information concerning principal accountant fees and services is
    incorporated by reference to  Proposal Two: Ratify the
    Designation of Deloitte   Touche LLP to Audit
     Schering-Plough s 
    Books and Accounts for 2008  in
     Schering-Plough s 
    Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
    May 16, 2008.

115

Table of Contents   

Part IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report

(1) Financial Statements: The financial statements are set
    forth under Item 8 of this
     10-K 

(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

116

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership Combined Financial Statements  

Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted
    because they are not applicable or not required.

117

Table of Contents   

(3) Index to Exhibits:

Unless otherwise indicated, all exhibits are part of Commission
    File
     Number 1-6571. 

118

Table of Contents   

119

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

Location 

10(l)

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (amended and restated to
    January 1, 2005).*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)(v) to
     Schering-Plough s 
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2006.

10(m)

Retirement Benefits Equalization Plan (as amended and restated
    as of January 1, 2005).*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to
     Schering-Plough s 
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2005.

10(n)

Executive Incentive Plan (as amended and restated to
    October 1, 2000).*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(i) to
     Schering-Plough s 
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2000.

10(o)

Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated to
    October 1, 2000).*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to
     Schering-Plough s 
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2000.

10(p)

Amended and Restated Defined Contribution Trust.*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to
     Schering-Plough s 
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2000.

10(q)

Amended and Restated SERP Rabbi Trust Agreement.*

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to
     Schering-Plough s 
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 1998.

10(r)

Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000, by
    and among
     Schering-Plough, 
    Merck   Co., Inc. and the other parties signatory
    thereto. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
     Schering-Plough s 
     8-K  dated
    October 21, 2002.

10(s)

First Amendment to the Cholesterol Governance Agreement, dated
    as of December 18, 2001, by and among
     Schering-Plough, 
    Merck   Co., Inc. and the other parties signatory
    thereto. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to
     Schering-Plough s 
     8-K  filed
    October 21, 2002.

10(t)

Master Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2001, by and
    among Schering-Plough, Merck   Co., Inc. and the other
    parties signatory thereto. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to
     Schering-Plough s 
     8-K  filed
    October 21, 2002.

10(u)

Letter Agreement dated April 14, 2003 relating to Consent
    Decree.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to
     Schering-Plough s 
     10-Q  for the
    period ended March 31, 2003.

10(v)

Distribution agreement between
     Schering-Plough 
    and Centocor, Inc., dated April 3, 1998. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to
    Schering-Plough s Amended
     10-K  for the
    year ended December 31, 2003, filed May 3, 2004.

10(w)

Amendment Agreement to the Distribution Agreement between
    Centocor, Inc., CAN Development, LLC, and
     Schering-Plough 
    (Ireland) Company. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
     Schering-Plough s 
     8-K  filed
    December 21, 2007.

10(x)

Share Purchase Agreement between Akzo Nobel N.V.,
     Schering-Plough 
    International C.V., and
     Schering-Plough 
    Corporation.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
     Schering-Plough s 
     8-K  filed
    October 2, 2007.

12

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

Attached.

14

Standards of Global Business Practices (covers all employees,
    including Senior Financial Officers).

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 to
     Schering-Plough s 
     8-K  filed
    September 30, 2004.

21

Subsidiaries of the registrant.

Attached.

120

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

Location 

23

.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

Attached.

23

.2

Independent Auditors  Consent.

Attached.

24

Power of attorney.

Attached.

31

.1

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 302 Certification for
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.

Attached.

31

.2

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 302 Certification for
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Attached.

32

.1

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 906 Certification for
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.

Attached.

32

.2

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 906 Certification for
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Attached.

*  

Compensatory plan, contract or arrangement. 

Certain portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a
    request for confidential treatment. The non-public information
    has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission pursuant to
     rule 24b-2 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

Copies of the above exhibits will be furnished upon request.

121

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15
    (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
    has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
    undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

SCHERING-PLOUGH 
    CORPORATION 
    (Registrant)

By

/s/   Steven
    H. Koehler 
 
       Steven
    H. Koehler 
    Vice President and Controller 
    (Duly Authorized Officer 
    and Chief Accounting Officer)

Date: February 29, 2008

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    date indicated.

/s/   Fred
    Hassan 

Fred
    Hassan

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

/s/   Robert
    J. Bertolini 

Robert
    J. Bertolini

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

/s/   Steven
    H. Koehler 

Steven
    H. Koehler

Vice President and Controller

* 

Hans
    W. Becherer

Director

* 

Thomas
    J. Colligan

Director

* 

C.
    Robert Kidder

Director

* 

Philip
    Leder, M.D.

Director

* 

Eugene
    R. McGrath

Director

* 

Carl
    E. Mundy, Jr.

Director

* 

Antonio
    M. Perez

Director

* 

Patricia
    F. Russo

Director

* 

Jack
    L. Stahl

Director

122

Table of Contents   

* 

Craig
    B. Thompson, M.D.

Director

* 

Kathryn
    C. Turner

Director

* 

Robert
    F. W. van Oordt

Director

* 

Arthur
    F. Weinbach

Director

*By

/s/   Steven
    H. Koehler 

Steven
    H. Koehler 
    Attorney-in-fact

Date: February 29, 2008

123

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Combined
    Statements of Net Sales and Contractual Expenses   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined
    financial statements.

124

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership  

Combined Balance Sheets 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined
    financial statements.

125

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Combined
    Statements of Cash Flows   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined
    financial statements.

126

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership  

Combined Statements of Partners  Capital
    (Deficit) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined
    financial statements.

127

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Notes
    to Combined Financial Statements   

1.    

Description
    of Business and Basis of Presentation  

Description
    of Business   

In May 2000, Merck   Co., Inc. ( Merck ) and
    Schering-Plough Corporation ( Schering-Plough )
    (collectively  Management  or the
     Partners ) entered into agreements (the
     Agreements ) to jointly develop and market in the
    United States, Schering-Plough s then investigational
    cholesterol absorption inhibitor ( CAI ) ezetimibe
    (marketed today in the United States as ZETIA and as EZETROL in
    most other countries) (the  Cholesterol
    Collaboration ) and a fixed-combination tablet containing
    the active ingredients montelukast sodium and loratadine (the
     Respiratory Collaboration ). Montelukast sodium, a
    leukotriene receptor antagonist, is sold by Merck as SINGULAIR
    and loratadine, an antihistamine, is sold by Schering-Plough as
    CLARITIN, both of which are indicated for the relief of symptoms
    of allergic rhinitis.

The Cholesterol Collaboration is formally referred to as the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership (the
     Partnership ). In December 2001, the Cholesterol
    Collaboration Agreements were expanded to include all countries
    of the world, except Japan. The Cholesterol Collaboration
    Agreements provide for ezetimibe to be developed and marketed in
    the following forms:

Ezetimibe, a once daily CAI, non-statin cholesterol reducing
    medicine used alone or co-administered with any statin
    drug, and

Ezetimibe and simvastatin (Merck s existing ZOCOR statin
    cholesterol modifying medicine) combined into one tablet
    (marketed today in the United States as VYTORIN and as INEGY in
    most other countries).

VYTORIN and ZETIA were approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration in July 2004 and October 2002, respectively.
    Together, these products, whether marketed as VYTORIN, ZETIA or
    under other trademarks locally, are referred to as the
     Cholesterol Products. 

Under the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements, the Partners
    established jointly-owned, limited purpose legal entities based
    in Canada, Puerto Rico, and the United States through which to
    carry out the contractual activities of the Partnership in these
    countries. An additional jointly-owned, limited purpose legal
    entity based in Singapore was established to own the rights to
    the intellectual property and to fund and oversee research and
    development and manufacturing activities of the Cholesterol and
    Respiratory Collaborations. In all other markets except Latin
    America, subsidiaries of Merck or Schering-Plough perform
    marketing activities for Cholesterol Products under contract
    with the Partnership. These legal entity and subsidiary
    operations are collectively referred to as the  Combined
    Companies.  In Latin America, the Partnership sells
    directly to Schering-Plough and Merck s Latin American
    subsidiaries and Schering-Plough and Merck compete against one
    another in the cholesterol market. Consequently, selling,
    promotion and distribution activities for the Cholesterol
    Products within Latin America are not included in the Combined
    Companies.

The Partnership is substantially reliant on the infrastructures
    of Merck and Schering-Plough. There are a limited number of
    employees of the legal entities of the Partnership and most
    activities are performed by employees of either Merck or
    Schering-Plough under service agreements with the Partnership.
    Profits, which are shared by the Partners under differing
    arrangements in countries around the world, are generally
    defined as net sales minus (1) agreed upon manufacturing
    costs and expenses incurred by the Partners and invoiced to the
    Partnership, (2) direct promotion expenses incurred by the
    Partners and invoiced to the Partnership, (3) expenses for
    a limited specialty sales force in the United States incurred by
    the Partners and invoiced to the Partnership, and certain
    amounts for sales force physician detailing of the Cholesterol
    Products in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and Italy,
    (4) administration expenses based on a percentage of
    Cholesterol Product net sales, which are invoiced by one of the
    Partners, and (5) other costs and expenses incurred by the
    Partners that were not contemplated when the Cholesterol
    Collaboration Agreements were entered into but that were
    subsequently agreed to by both Partners. Agreed upon research
    and development expenses incurred by

128

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Notes to
    Combined Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the Partners and invoiced to the Partnership are shared equally
    by the Partners, after adjusting for special allocations in the
    nature of milestones due to one of the Partners.

The Partnership s future results of operations, financial
    position, and cash flows may differ materially from the
    historical results presented herein because of the risks and
    uncertainties related to the Partnership s business. The
    Partnership s future operating results and cash flows are
    dependent on the Cholesterol Products. Any events that adversely
    affect the market for those products could have a significant
    impact on the Partnership s results of operations and cash
    flows. These events could include loss of patent protection,
    increased costs associated with manufacturing, increased
    competition from the introduction of new, more effective
    treatments, exclusion from government reimbursement programs,
    discontinuation or removal from the market of a product for
    safety or other reason, and the results of future clinical or
    outcomes studies. (Note 5)

Basis
    of Presentation   

The accompanying combined balance sheets and combined statements
    of net sales and contractual expenses, cash flows and
    partners  capital (deficit) include the Cholesterol and
    Respiratory Collaboration activities of the Combined Companies.
    The Respiratory Collaboration activities primarily pertain to
    clinical development work and pre-launch marketing activities.
    Spending on respiratory-related activities is not material to
    the income from operations in any of the years presented. In
    August 2007, the Partners announced that the New Drug
    Application filing for montelukast sodium/loratadine had been
    accepted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
    standard review. The Partners are seeking U.S. marketing
    approval of the medicine for treatment of allergic rhinitis
    symptoms in patients who want relief from nasal congestion.

Net sales include the net sales of the Cholesterol Products sold
    by the Combined Companies. Expenses include amounts that Merck
    and Schering-Plough have contractually agreed to directly
    invoice to the Partnership, or are shared through the
    contractual profit sharing arrangements between the Partners, as
    described above.

The accompanying combined financial statements were prepared for
    the purpose of complying with certain rules and regulations of
    the Securities and Exchange Commission and reflect the
    activities of the Partnership based on the contractual
    agreements between the Partners. Such combined financial
    statements include only the expenses agreed by the Partners to
    be shared or included in the calculation of profits under the
    contractual agreements of the Partnership, and are not intended
    to be a complete presentation of all of the costs and expenses
    that would be incurred by a stand-alone pharmaceutical company
    for the discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and
    marketing of pharmaceutical products.

Under the Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements, certain
    activities are charged to the Partnership by the Partners based
    on contractually agreed upon allocations of Partner-incurred
    expenses as described below. In the opinion of Management, any
    allocations of expenses described below are made on a basis that
    reasonably reflects the actual level of support provided. All
    other expenses are expenses of the Partners and accordingly, are
    reflected in each Partner s respective expense line items
    in their separate consolidated financial statements.

As described above, the profit sharing arrangements under the
    Cholesterol Collaboration Agreements provide that only certain
    Partner-incurred costs and expenses be invoiced to the
    Partnership by the Partners and therefore become part of the
    profit sharing calculation. The following paragraphs list the
    typical categories of costs and expenses that are generally
    incurred in the discovery, development, manufacture,
    distribution and marketing of the Cholesterol Products and
    provide a description of how such costs and expenses are treated
    in the accompanying combined statements of net sales and
    contractual expenses, and in determining profits under the
    contractual agreements.

Manufacturing costs and expenses   All contractually
    agreed upon manufacturing plant costs and expenses incurred by
    the Partners related to the manufacture of the Partnership
    products are included as  Cost of sales  in the
    accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual
    expenses,

129

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Notes to
    Combined Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

including direct production costs, certain production variances,
    expenses for plant services and administration, warehousing,
    distribution, materials management, technical services, quality
    control, and asset utilization. All other manufacturing costs
    and expenses incurred by the Partners not agreed to be included
    in the determination of profits under the contractual agreements
    are not invoiced to the Partnership and, therefore, are excluded
    from the accompanying combined financial statements. These costs
    and expenses include but are not limited to yield gains and
    losses in excess of jointly agreed upon yield rates and
    excess/idle capacity of manufacturing plant assets.

Direct promotion expenses   Direct promotion
    represents direct and identifiable out-of-pocket expenses
    incurred by the Partners on behalf of the Partnership, including
    but not limited to contractually agreed upon expenses related to
    market research, detailing aids, agency fees, direct-to-consumer
    advertising, meetings and symposia, trade programs, launch
    meetings, special sales force incentive programs and product
    samples. All such contractually agreed upon expenses are
    included in  Selling, general and administrative  in
    the accompanying combined statements of net sales and
    contractual expenses. All other promotion expenses incurred by
    the Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of
    profits under the contractual agreements are excluded from the
    accompanying combined financial statements.

Selling expenses   In the United States, Canada,
    Puerto Rico and other markets outside the United States
    (primarily Italy), the general sales forces of the Partners
    provide a majority of the physician detail activity at an agreed
    upon cost which is included in  Selling, general and
    administrative  in the accompanying combined statements of
    net sales and contractual expenses. In addition, the agreed upon
    costs of a limited specialty sales force for the United States
    market that calls on opinion leaders in the field of cholesterol
    medicine are also included in  Selling, general and
    administrative.  All other selling expenses incurred by the
    Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of
    profits under the contractual agreements are excluded from the
    accompanying combined financial statements. These expenses
    include the total costs of the general sales forces of the
    Partners detailing the Cholesterol Products in most countries
    other than the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Italy.

Administrative expenses   Administrative support is
    primarily provided by one of the Partners. The contractually
    agreed upon expenses for support are determined based on a
    percentage of Cholesterol Product net sales. Such amounts are
    included in  Selling, general and administrative  in
    the accompanying combined statements of net sales and
    contractual expenses. Selected contractually agreed upon direct
    costs of employees of the Partners for support services and
    out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Partners on behalf of the
    Partnership are also included in  Selling, general and
    administrative.  All other expenses incurred by the
    Partners not agreed to be included in the determination of
    profits under the contractual agreements are excluded from the
    accompanying combined financial statements. These expenses
    include, but are not limited to, certain U.S. managed care
    services, Partners  subsidiary management in most
    international markets, and other indirect expenses such as
    corporate overhead and interest.

Research and development ( R D )
    expenses   R D activities are performed by the
    Partners and agreed upon costs and expenses are invoiced to the
    Partnership. These agreed upon expenses generally represent an
    allocation of each Partner s estimate of full time
    equivalents devoted to the research and development of the
    cholesterol and respiratory products and include grants and
    other third-party expenses. These contractually agreed upon
    allocated costs are included in  Research and
    development  in the accompanying combined statements of net
    sales and contractual expenses. All other R D costs that
    are incurred by the Partners but not jointly agreed upon, are
    excluded from the accompanying combined financial statements.

130

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Notes to
    Combined Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

2.    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Principles
    of Combination   

The accompanying combined balance sheets and combined statements
    of net sales and contractual expenses, cash flows and
    partners  capital (deficit) include the Cholesterol and
    Respiratory Collaboration activities of the Combined Companies.
    Interpartnership balances and profits are eliminated.

Use of
    Estimates   

The combined financial statements are prepared based on
    contractual agreements between the Partners, as described above,
    and include certain amounts that are based on Management s
    best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used in determining
    such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns and
    government and managed care rebates. Because of the uncertainty
    inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these
    estimates.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

The net assets of the Partnership s foreign operations are
    translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates. The
    U.S. dollar effects arising from translating the net assets
    of these operations are included in Partners  capital
    (deficit), and are not significant.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of highly liquid
    money market instruments with original maturities of less than
    three months. In 2007, the Partnership changed certain cash
    management practices, increasing the amount of cash held by the
    Partnership. The Partnership s cash, which is primarily
    invested in highly liquid money market instruments, is used to
    fund trade obligations coming due in the month and for
    distributions to the Partners. Interest income earned on cash
    and cash equivalents is reported in  Selling, general and
    administrative  in the accompanying combined statements of
    net sales and contractual expenses and amounted to
    $8 million, $5 million and $2 million in 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

Inventories   

Substantially all inventories are valued at the lower of first
    in, first out cost or market.

Intangible
    Assets   

Intangible assets consist of licenses, trademarks and trade
    names owned by the Partnership. These intangible assets were
    recorded at the Partners  historical cost at the date of
    contribution, at a nominal value.

Revenue
    Recognition, Rebates, Returns and Allowances   

Revenue from sales of Cholesterol Products are recognized when
    title and risk of loss pass to the customer. Recognition of
    revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of
    sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations.
    Net sales of VYTORIN/INEGY are $2,779 million,
    $1,955 million and $1,028 million in 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. Net sales of ZETIA/EZETROL are
    $2,407 million, $1,929 million and $1,397 million
    in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

In the United States, sales discounts are issued to customers as
    direct discounts at the point-of-sale or indirectly through an
    intermediary wholesale purchaser, known as chargebacks, or
    indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are
    generally made with a limited right of return under certain
    conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales
    discounts and returns for which reliable estimates can be made
    at the time of sale. Reserves for chargebacks, discounts and
    returns and allowances are reflected as a

131

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Notes to
    Combined Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

direct reduction to accounts receivable and amounted to
    $44 million and $37 million at December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. Accruals for rebates are reflected as
     Rebates payable,  shown separately in the combined
    balance sheets.

Income
    Taxes   

Generally, taxable income or losses of the Partnership are
    allocated to the Partners and included in each Partner s
    income tax return. In some state jurisdictions, the Partnership
    is subject to an income tax, which is included in the combined
    financial statements and shared between the Partners. Except for
    these state income taxes, which are not significant to the
    combined financial statements, no provision has been made for
    federal, foreign or state income taxes. In January 2007, the
    Partnership adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes  (FIN 48). Adoption of FIN 48 had no
    impact on the Partnership s financial statements.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk   

The Partnership s concentrations of credit risk consist
    primarily of accounts receivable. At December 31, 2007,
    three customers each represented 28%, 27% and 15% of
     Accounts receivable, net.  These same three customers
    accounted for more than 70% of net sales in 2007. Bad debts for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been
    minimal. The Partnership does not normally require collateral or
    other security to support credit sales. In 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    the Partnership derived approximately 75%, 80% and 81%,
    respectively, of its combined net sales from the United States.

3.    

Inventories  

Inventories at December 31 consisted of:

The Partnership has entered into long-term agreements with the
    Partners for the supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients
    (API) and for the formulation and packaging of the Cholesterol
    Products at an agreed upon cost. In connection with these supply
    agreements, the Partnership has entered into capacity agreements
    under which the Partnership has committed to take a specified
    annual minimum supply of API and formulated tablets or pay a
    penalty. These capacity agreements are in effect for a period of
    seven years following the first full year of production by one
    of the Partners and expire beginning in 2011. The Partnership
    has met its commitments under the capacity agreements through
    December 31, 2007.

132

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Notes to
    Combined Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

4.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

The Partnership receives substantially all of its goods and
    services, including pharmaceutical product, manufacturing
    services, sales force services, administrative services and
    R D services, from its Partners. Summarized information
    about related party balances is as follows:

Selling, general and administrative expense includes
    contractually defined costs for physician detailing provided by
    Schering-Plough and Merck of $242 million and
    $197 million, respectively, in 2007; $204 million and
    $203 million, respectively, in 2006; and $196 million
    and $181 million, respectively, in 2005. These expenses are
    not necessarily reflective of the actual cost of the
    Partners  sales efforts in the countries in which the
    amounts are contractually defined. Included in the 2007 and 2006
    amounts are $60 million and $52 million, respectively,
    relating to contractually defined costs of physician detailing
    in Italy. These amounts were not paid by the Partnership to the
    Partners, but are a component of the profit sharing calculation.

Cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expense
    also includes contractually defined costs for distribution and
    administrative services provided by Merck and Schering-Plough of
    $34 million, $27 million, and $21 million in
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These amounts are not
    necessarily reflective of the actual costs for such distribution
    and administrative services.

The Partnership sells Cholesterol Products directly to the
    Partners, principally to Merck and Schering-Plough affiliates in
    Latin America. In Latin America, where the Partners compete with
    one another in the cholesterol market, Merck and Schering-Plough
    purchase Cholesterol Products from the Partnership and sell
    directly to third parties. Sales to Partners are included in
     Net sales  at their invoiced price in the
    accompanying combined statements of net sales and contractual
    expenses and are $82 million, $61 million, and
    $36 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

5.    

Legal and
    Other Matters  

The Partnership may become party to claims and legal proceedings
    of a nature considered normal to its business, including product
    liability and intellectual property. The Partnership records a
    liability in connection with such matters when it is probable a
    liability has been incurred and an amount can be reasonably
    estimated. Legal costs associated with litigation and
    investigation activities are expensed as incurred.

In February 2007, Schering-Plough received a notice from
    Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, a generic company, indicating that it
    had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application for a generic form
    of ZETIA and that it is challenging the U.S. patents that
    are listed for ZETIA. Schering-Plough and the Partnership intend
    to vigorously defend its patents, which they believe are valid,
    against infringement by generic companies attempting to market
    products prior to the expiration dates of such patents. As with
    any litigation, there can be no assurances of the outcomes
    which, if adverse, could result in significantly shortened
    periods of exclusivity.

On January 14, 2008, the Partnership announced the primary
    endpoint and other results of the ENHANCE trial (Effect of
    Combination Ezetimibe and High-Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin
    Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with
    Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia). ENHANCE was a
    surrogate endpoint trial conducted in 720 patients with
    Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia, a rare condition
    that affects approximately 0.2% of the population. The primary
    endpoint was the mean change in the intima-

133

Table of Contents   

Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership 

Notes to
    Combined Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

media thickness measured at three sites in the carotid arteries
    (the right and left common carotid, internal carotid and carotid
    bulb) between patients treated with ezetimibe/simvastatin
    10/80 mg versus patients treated with simvastatin
    80 mg alone over a two year period. There was no
    statistically significant difference between treatment groups on
    the primary endpoint. There was also no statistically
    significant difference between the treatment groups for each of
    the components of the primary endpoint, including the common
    carotid artery. The Partnership has been closely monitoring
    sales of the Cholesterol Products following release of the
    ENHANCE clinical trial results. To date, 2008 net sales of the
    Cholesterol Products have been below the Partnership s
    prior expectations.

During December 2007 and through February 26, 2008, Merck
    and Schering-Plough received joint letters from the House
    Committee on Energy and Commerce and the House Subcommittee on
    Oversight and Investigations and one letter from the Senate
    Finance Committee collectively seeking a combination of witness
    interviews, documents and information on a variety of issues
    related to the ENHANCE clinical trial, the sale and promotion of
    VYTORIN, as well as sales of stock by corporate officers of
    Merck and Schering-Plough. On January 25, 2008, Merck,
    Schering-Plough and the Partnership each received two subpoenas
    from the New York State Attorney General s Office seeking
    similar information and documents. Merck and Schering-Plough
    have also each received a letter from the Office of the
    Connecticut Attorney General dated February 1, 2008,
    requesting documents related to the marketing and sale of the
    Cholesterol Products and the timing of disclosures of the
    results of ENHANCE. The Partners and the Partnership are
    cooperating with these investigations and are working to respond
    to the inquiries. In addition, since mid-January 2008, the
    Partners and the Partnership have become aware of or been served
    with approximately 85 civil class action lawsuits alleging
    common law and state consumer fraud claims in connection with
    the sale and promotion of the Cholesterol Products. While it is
    not feasible to predict the outcome of the investigations or
    lawsuits arising from the ENHANCE trial, unfavorable outcomes
    could have a significant adverse effect on the
    Partnership s financial position, results of operations and
    cash flows.

The Partnership maintains insurance coverage with deductibles
    and self-insurance as Management believes is cost beneficial.
    The Partnership self-insures all of its risk as it relates to
    product liability and accrues an estimate of product liability
    claims incurred but not reported.

134

Table of Contents   

INDEPENDENT
    AUDITORS  REPORT  

The Partners of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership

We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of the
    Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership (the
     Partnership ) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    as described in Note 1, and the related combined statements
    of net sales and contractual expenses, partners  capital
    (deficit) and cash flows, as described in Note 1, for each
    of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007.
    These financial statements are the responsibility of the
    management of the Partnership, Merck   Co., Inc., and
    Schering-Plough Corporation. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
    auditing standards as established by the Auditing Standards
    Board (United States) and in accordance with the auditing
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
    Partnership is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
    perform, an audit of its internal control over financial
    reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control
    over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
    procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
    for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
    the Partnership s internal control over financial
    reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit
    also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
    the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
    assessing the accounting principles used and significant
    estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
    financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

The accompanying statements were prepared for the purpose of
    complying with certain rules and regulations of the Securities
    and Exchange Commission and, as described in Note 1, are
    not intended to be a complete presentation of the financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows of all the
    activities of a stand-alone pharmaceutical company involved in
    the discovery, development, manufacture, distribution and
    marketing of pharmaceutical products.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial
    position of the Merck/Schering-Plough Cholesterol Partnership,
    as described in Note 1, as of December 31, 2007 and
    2006, and the combined results of its net sales and contractual
    expenses and its combined cash flows, as described in
    Note 1, for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/  Deloitte  
    Touche LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 27, 2008

135

Table of Contents   

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SCHEDULE II.
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

For
    the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005  

Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted from assets to which
    they apply:

Allowances for accounts receivable:

136

<EX-10.D>
 2
 y50144exv10wd.htm
 EX-10.D: 2006 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

EX-10.D 

SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION 

2006 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

(As Amended and Restated Effective as of February 29, 2008)

SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION 
2006 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

(As Amended and Restated Effective as of February 29, 2008)

I. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE 

1.1  Purpose . The purpose of this Schering-Plough Corporation 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the
 Plan ) is to enable Schering-Plough Corporation to achieve superior financial performance, as
reflected in the performance of its Shares and other key financial or operating indicators by (i)
providing incentives and rewards to certain Employees who are in a position to contribute
materially to the success and long-term objectives of Schering-Plough, (ii) aiding in the
recruitment and retention of Employees of outstanding ability and (iii) providing Employees an
opportunity to acquire or expand equity interests in Schering-Plough, thus aligning the interests
of such Employees with those of Schering-Plough s shareholders. Schering-Plough expects that it
will benefit from the added interest that such Employees will have in the welfare of
Schering-Plough as a result of their ownership or increased ownership of Schering-Plough s Shares.

1.2  Effective Date; Shareholder Approval . The Plan is effective as of May 19, 2006, subject
to the approval of the Plan by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the Shares
present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of
Schering-Plough, or any adjournment of such meeting. Any Awards granted under the Plan prior to the
approval of the Plan by Schering-Plough s shareholders, as provided herein, shall be contingent on
such approval; if such approval is not obtained, the Plan shall have no effect, and any Awards
granted under the Plan shall be rescinded.

II. DEFINITIONS 

Capitalized terms used in the Plan have the following meanings, unless another definition is
indicated clearly by particular usage and context.

Acquired Company   means any business, corporation or other entity acquired by Schering-Plough
or its Affiliates or Subsidiaries.

Acquired Grantee   means the grantee of a stock-based award of an Acquired Company.

Affiliate   means a corporation or other entity controlled by, controlling or under common
control with Schering-Plough.

Award   means any form of incentive or performance award granted under the Plan, whether
singly or in combination, to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to such

terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations (if any) as the Committee may establish and
set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. Awards granted under the Plan may consist of:

(a)  Stock Options  awarded pursuant to Section 4.4;

(b)  Restricted Stock  awarded pursuant to Section 4.5;

(c)  Deferred Stock Units  awarded pursuant to Section 4.6;

(d)  Other Stock-Based Awards  awarded pursuant to Section 4.7;

(e)  Performance Awards , including  Qualified Performance Awards,  awarded
pursuant to Section 4.8; and

(f)  Substitute Awards  awarded pursuant to Section 4.9.

Award Certificate   means the document issued, either in writing or by electronic means, by
Schering-Plough to a Participant evidencing the grant of an Award and setting forth the specific
terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations applicable to the Award.

Beneficiary   means the person or persons designated by the Participant in accordance with
Section 7.6 to acquire the Participant s right in the Plan in the event of the Participant s death.

Board   means the Board of Directors of Schering-Plough.

Change in Control   means the happening of any of the following events:

(a) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section
13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of securities of Schering-Plough where
such acquisition causes such Person to own more than 50% of either ( x ) the then outstanding
Shares of Schering-Plough (the  Outstanding Shares ) or ( y ) the combined voting power of the
then outstanding voting securities of Schering-Plough entitled to vote generally in the election
of directors (the  Outstanding Voting Securities  provided, however, that for purposes of this
subsection (a) the following acquisitions will not constitute a Change in Control: (i) any
acquisition directly from Schering-Plough, (ii) any acquisition by Schering-Plough, (iii) any
acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by
Schering-Plough or any corporation controlled by Schering-Plough or (iv) any acquisition by any
corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of
subsection (c) below; and provided, further, that if any Person s beneficial ownership of the
Outstanding Shares or Outstanding Voting Securities reaches or exceeds 50% as a result of a
prior transaction, and such Person subsequently acquires beneficial ownership of additional

-2- 

Shares or additional voting securities of Schering-Plough, such subsequent acquisition will
not be treated as an acquisition that causes such Person to own more than 50% of the Outstanding
Shares or Outstanding Voting Securities;

(b) during any 12-month period, individuals who, as of the first day of such period,
constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to
the beginning of such 12-month period whose election, or nomination for election by the
Schering-Plough s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors
then comprising the Incumbent Board will be considered as though such individual were a member
of the Incumbent Board;

(c) consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation
or similar corporate transaction involving Schering-Plough, or the acquisition of assets or
stock of another entity by Schering-Plough (each a  Business Combination ), in each case,
unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and
entities who were beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Shares or Outstanding
Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or
indirectly, more than 50% of, respectfully, the then outstanding shares of the common stock and
the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally
in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such
Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such
transaction owns Schering-Plough or substantially all of Schering-Plough s assets either
directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Shares and
Outstanding Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation
resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of
Schering-Plough or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns,
directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectfully, the then outstanding shares of common
stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power
of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such
ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members
of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were
members of the Incumbent Board on the later of (A) the time of the execution of the initial
agreement, (B) the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination or (C) the
beginning of the 12-month period ending on the effective date of the Business Combination;

(d) any one Person acquires (or has acquired during any 12-month period ending on the
date of the most recent acquisition by such Person) assets of Schering-Plough having a fair
market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets
of Schering-Plough immediately prior to such sale, other than an acquisition by (i) a Person who
was a shareholder of Schering-Plough immediately

-3- 

before the asset acquisition in exchange for or with respect to such Person s Shares, (ii)
an entity whose total or voting power immediately after the transfer is at least 50% owned,
directly or indirectly, by Schering-Plough, (iii) a person or group that, immediately after the
transfer, directly or indirectly owns at least 50% of the total value or voting power of the
outstanding stock of Schering-Plough or (iv) an entity whose total value or voting power
immediately after the transfer is at least 50% owned, directly or indirectly, by a person
described in clause (iii) above; or

(e) the complete liquidation of Schering-Plough.

The definition of Change in Control for purposes of the Plan is intended to conform to the
description of  Change in Control Events  in Treas. Prop. Reg. 1.409A-3(g)(5), or in subsequent IRS
guidance describing what constitutes a change in control event for purposes of Code section 409A.
Accordingly, no Change in Control will be deemed to occur with respect to a transaction or event
described in paragraphs (a) through (e) above unless the transaction or event would constitute a
 Change in Control Event  as described in Treas. Prop. Reg. 1.409A-3(g)(5), or in subsequent IRS
guidance under Code section 409A.

Change in Control Price   means the higher of (a) the highest reported sales price of a Share
in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or other national
exchange on which Shares may then be listed during the 60-day period prior to and including the
effective date of a Change in Control or (b) if the Change in Control is the result of a tender or
exchange offer or a business combination, the highest price per Share paid in such tender or
exchange offer or business combination; provided, however, that in the case of Stock Options, the
Change in Control Price shall be in all cases the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date such
Stock Option is exercised or cancelled. To the extent that the consideration paid in any
transaction described in clause (b) above consists all or in part of securities or other non-cash
consideration, the value of such securities or other non-cash consideration shall be determined in
the sole discretion of the Committee.

Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

Committee   means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, or such other
successor committee or subcommittee of the Board formed to act on performance-based compensation
for Covered Employees, which is comprised solely of two or more persons who are outside directors
within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C)(i) of the Code and the applicable regulations and
non-employee directors within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act.

Controlled Group Member   means Schering-Plough and each other company that is required to be
aggregated with Schering-Plough under Code Sections 414(b), (c) and (m).

Corporation   means Schering-Plough Corporation.

-4- 

Covered Employee   means an Employee who is, or who the Committee determines may be, a
 covered employee  within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code in the fiscal year in which
Schering-Plough would expect to be able to claim a tax deduction with respect to a Performance
Award.

Deferred Stock Account   means a hypothetical bookkeeping account established and maintained
by Schering-Plough on behalf of a Participant pursuant to Section 4.6(a) to track Deferred Stock
Units awarded to the Participant pending the distribution of Shares in settlement of such units.

Deferred Stock Unit   means the Award of an unfunded contractual right granted under Section
4.6 to receive one Share in the future, subject to any restrictions, as the Committee, in its
discretion, may determine.

Disabled   or   Disability   means an inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by
reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result
in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.

Dividend Equivalent   means an amount equal to the cash dividend or the Fair Market Value of
the stock dividend that would be paid on each Share underlying an Award if the Share were duly
issued and outstanding on the dividend record date.

Effective Date   means May 19, 2006.

Employee   means any individual who performs services as a common law employee for
Schering-Plough or an Affiliate or Subsidiary.

Exchange Act   means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exercise Price   means the price per Share, as fixed by the Committee, at which Shares may be
purchased under a Stock Option.

Fair Market Value   of a Share means either:

(a) The closing sales price of a Share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the
applicable date,

(b) If no sales of Shares are reported for such date, the mean between the bid and asked
price of a Share on such Exchange at the close of the market on such date, or

(c) In the event that the method for determining fair market value described in clauses (a)
or (b) is not practicable, the fair market value of a Share determined in

-5- 

accordance with any other reasonable method approved by the Committee in its discretion.

GAAP   means United States generally accepted accounting principles.

Incentive Stock Option   means a Stock Option granted under Section 4.4 of the Plan that meets
the requirements of Section 422 of the Code and any regulations or rules promulgated thereunder and
is designated in the Award Certificate to be an Incentive Stock Option.

Involuntary Termination   means a Termination of Employment initiated by Schering-Plough or an
Affiliate or Subsidiary other than a Termination for Cause or a Termination Due to Business
Divestiture.

Nonqualified Stock Option   means any Stock Option granted under Section 4.4 of the Plan that
is not an Incentive Stock Option.

Other Stock-Based Award   means an Award (other than a Stock Option, Restricted Stock or
Deferred Stock Unit) granted under Section 4.7 of the Plan that consists of, or is denominated in,
payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to,
Shares.

Participant   means an Employee or Acquired Grantee who has been granted an Award under the
Plan.

Performance Award   means an Award granted under Section 4.8 of the Plan that is granted,
vested or paid solely on account of the attainment of a specified performance target in relation to
one or more Performance Measures.

Performance Cycle   means a period typically measured by Schering-Plough s fiscal year or
years over which the level of attainment of one or more Performance Measures shall be assessed;
provided, however, that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine to designate a Performance
Cycle that is less than a full fiscal year.

Performance Measure   means, with respect to any Performance Award, the business criteria
selected by the Committee to measure the level of performance of Schering-Plough during a
Performance Cycle. The Committee may select as the Performance Measure for a Performance Cycle any
one or combination of the following corporate measures, as interpreted by the Committee:

(a) Net operating profit after taxes;

(b) Operating profit before taxes;

(c) Return on equity;

-6- 

(d) Return on assets or net assets;

(e) Total shareholder return;

(f) Total shareholder return (as compared with a peer group of Schering-Plough);

(g) Earnings before income taxes;

(h) Earnings per Share;

(i) Net income;

(j) Free cash flow;

(k) Free cash flow per Share;

(l) Revenue (or any component thereof);

(m) Revenue growth;

(n) Share performance;

(o) Relative Share performance;

(p) Economic value added; and/or

(q) Return on capital.

Plan   means the Schering-Plough Corporation 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as set forth in this
document and as may be amended from time to time.

Prior Plan   means the Schering-Plough Corporation 2002 Stock Incentive Plan.

Qualified Performance Award   means a Performance Award that is intended by the Committee to
meet the requirements for  qualified performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Code
Section 162(m) and Treasury Regulation Section 1.162-27(e).

Qualified Performance Award Determination Period   means the period within which Committee
determinations regarding Performance Measures, targets and payout formulas in connection with a
Qualified Performance Award must be made. The Qualified Performance Award Determination Period is
the period beginning on the first day of a Performance Cycle and ending no later than 90 days after
commencement of the Performance Cycle; provided, however, that in the case of a Performance Cycle
that is less than 12 months in duration, the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period shall
end no later than the date on which 25% of the Performance Cycle has elapsed.

-7- 

Reporting Person   means an Employee who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section
16(a) of the Exchange Act.

Restricted Stock   means Shares issued pursuant to Section 4.5, which are subject to such
restrictions as the Committee, in its discretion, shall impose.

Restriction Period   means the period of time during which the Restricted Stock Awards will
remain subject to restrictions imposed by the Committee and set forth in the Award Certificate.

Retirement   means, for purposes of a particular Award, an Employee s  retirement  as defined
in the Committee s grant guidelines in effect as of the date the Award is granted to the Employee
or, if no such grant guidelines are in effect as of the date of grant (or if such guidelines are in
effect, but do not define  retirement ), an Employee s Termination of Employment on or after the
earliest date the Employee is eligible to retire under Schering-Plough s tax-qualified retirement
plans, or in the case of a non-U.S. Employee, under the Worldwide Retirement Plan.

Section 409A Specified Employee   means, with respect to Terminations of Employment that occur
between April 1st of a calendar year (beginning with the 2006 calendar year) and the following
March 31st, any Employee who meets the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) below at any time
during the 12-month period ending on December 31st of the calendar year immediately preceding such
April 1st.

(a) An officer of Schering-Plough or any other Controlled Group Member having annual
compensation greater than $135,000 in 2005 or $140,000 in 2006 (and as adjusted under Section
416(i)(1) of the Code for years after 2006). Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee will be
treated as an officer for purposes of the Plan only if such Employee is one of the top 50
highest paid employees of Schering-Plough and all other Controlled Group Members who exceed the
applicable annual compensation threshold described herein at any time during a calendar year.

(b) A  5% owner  of Schering-Plough. A  5% owner  means any person who owns (or is
considered as owning within the meaning of Code Section 318) more than 5% of the outstanding
stock of Schering-Plough or stock possessing more than 5% of the total combined voting power of
all stock of Schering-Plough. In determining percentage ownership hereunder, Controlled Group
Members shall be treated as separate employers.

(c) A  1% owner  of Schering-Plough having an annual compensation from Schering-Plough of
more than $150,000.  1% owner  means any person who owns (or is considered as owning within the
meaning of Code Section 318) more than 1% of the outstanding stock of Schering-Plough or stock
possessing more than 1% of the total combined voting power of all stock of Schering-Plough. In
determining percentage ownership, Controlled Group Members shall be treated as separate
employers.

-8- 

However, in determining whether an individual has annual compensation or more than
$150,000, compensation from each Controlled Group Member shall be taken into account.

(d) For purposes of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above,  annual compensation  shall mean
the Form W-2 compensation of a Participant for the applicable calendar year.

Shares   means shares of common stock, $.50 par value per share, of Schering-Plough.

Stock Option   means a right granted under Section 4.4 of the Plan to purchase from
Schering-Plough a stated number of Shares at the Exercise Price. Stock Options awarded under the
Plan shall be in the form of either Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options.

Subsidiary   means any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any
period in which at least a 50% voting or profit interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by
Schering-Plough or any successor to Schering-Plough.

Termination Due to Business Divestiture   means a Termination of Employment due to a
transaction or series of related transactions (other than a transaction or series of transactions
that are a part of a Change in Control) that result in a divestiture, sale, transfer, assignment or
other disposition of any division, subsidiary, business unit, product line or group, or any other
asset of Schering-Plough or any of its affiliates.

Termination for Cause   shall have the definition prescribed in the current employment
agreement, if any, between Schering-Plough and the relevant Employee or, in the absence of such
definition, shall mean a Termination of Employment initiated by Schering-Plough or an Affiliate or
Subsidiary incident to or connected with a determination that the Employee has engaged in
misappropriation, theft, embezzlement, kick-backs, bribery or similar deliberate, gross or willful
misconduct or dishonest acts or omissions. Termination for Cause shall also include such a
Termination of Employment incident to or in connection with acts or omissions of the Employee that
the Committee reasonably determines to be willfully or wantonly harmful to, or detrimental to the
interests of, Schering-Plough or any of its Affiliates or Subsidiaries, monetarily or otherwise.

Termination of Employment   means the date of cessation of an Employee s employment
relationship with Schering-Plough and any Affiliate or Subsidiary for any reason, with or without
cause, as determined by Schering-Plough. A transfer of an Employee between and among
Schering-Plough, an Affiliate or a Subsidiary shall not be deemed a Termination of Employment for
purposes of the Plan.

-9- 

III. ADMINISTRATION 

3.1  The Committee . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.

3.2  Authority of the Committee . The Committee shall have authority, in its sole and
absolute discretion and consistent with applicable law and regulation, and subject to the terms of
the Plan, to:

(a) Interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to the Plan;

(b) Prescribe the rules and regulations that it deems necessary for the proper operation
and administration of the Plan, and amend or rescind any existing rules or regulations relating
the Plan;

(c) Select Employees to receive Awards under the Plan;

(d) Determine the form of an Award, the number of Shares subject to each Award, all the
terms and conditions of an Award, including, without limitation, the conditions on exercise or
vesting, the designation of Stock Options as Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock
Options, and the circumstances in which an Award may be settled in cash or Shares or may be
cancelled, forfeited or suspended, and the terms of the Award Certificate;

(e) Determine whether Awards will be granted singly, in combination or in tandem;

(f) Establish and interpret Performance Measures in connection with Performance Awards,
evaluate the level of performance over a Performance Cycle and, in the case of Qualified
Performance Awards, certify the level of performance attained with respect to Performance
Measures;

(g) Waive or amend any terms, conditions, restrictions or limitations on an Award, except
that the prohibition on the repricing of Stock Options, as described in Section 4.4(h), and the
limitations on elections to defer payment of Deferred Stock Units, as described in Section
4.6(e), may not be waived;

(h) Except to the extent that any such action would result in the imposition on a
Participant of an  additional tax  under Section 409A of the Code, accelerate the vesting,
exercise or lapse of restrictions on an Award when such action or actions would be in the best
interest of Schering-Plough;

(i) Make any adjustments permitted by the Plan (including but not limited to adjustment of
the number of Shares available under the Plan or any Award) and any Award granted under the Plan
as may be appropriate pursuant to Article 

-10- 

(j) Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, determine under which
circumstances Awards may be deferred and the extent to which a deferral will be credited with
Dividend Equivalents and interest thereon;

(k) Determine whether a Nonqualified Stock Option or Restricted Stock Award may be
transferable to family members, a family trust or a family partnership;

(l) Establish any sub-plans and make any modifications to the Plan that the Committee may
determine to be necessary to implement and administer the Plan in countries outside the United
States;

(m) Appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for proper administration of the Plan;
and

(n) Take any and all other actions it deems necessary or advisable for the proper operation
or administration of the Plan.

3.3  Committee Determinations . All determinations of the Committee shall be made in its sole
discretion, in the best interest of Schering-Plough, not as a fiduciary, and in keeping with the
objectives of the Plan and need not be uniform as to similarly situated individuals. Committee
determinations shall be made by a majority of its members present at a meeting at which a quorum is
present and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in the Plan
and any Awards granted under the Plan. Any determination of the Committee that is reduced to
writing and signed by all of the members of the Committee shall be as fully effective as if it had
been made at a meeting duly held.

3.4  Delegation of Authority . The Committee, in its discretion and consistent with
applicable law and regulations, may delegate some or all of its authority and duties under the Plan
to such other individual, individuals or committee as it may deem advisable, under such conditions
and subject to such limitations as the Committee may establish. Notwithstanding the foregoing, only
the Committee shall have authority to grant and administer Awards to Covered Employees and other
Reporting Persons, to establish and certify Performance Measures for Qualified Performance Awards
and to grant Awards to any Employee who is acting as a delegate of the Committee in respect of the
Plan.

3.5  Employment of Advisors . The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants
and other advisors, and the Committee, Schering-Plough and the officers and directors of
Schering-Plough may rely upon the advice, opinions or valuations of the advisors employed.

3.6  No Liability . No member of the Committee, nor any person acting as a delegate of the
Committee in respect of the Plan, shall be liable for any losses incurred by any person resulting
from any action, interpretation or construction made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any
Award granted under the Plan.

-11- 

IV. AWARDS

4.1  Eligibility . All Employees shall be eligible to receive Awards under the Plan.

4.2  Participation . The Committee, at its sole discretion, shall select from time to time
Participants from those persons eligible under Section 4.1 to receive Awards under the Plan.

4.3  Forms of Award . Awards shall be in the form determined by the Committee, in its
discretion, and shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate. Awards may be granted singly or in
combination or tandem with other Awards.

4.4  Stock Options . The Committee may grant Stock Options under the Plan to those Employees
whom the Committee may from time to time select, in the amounts and pursuant to such other terms
and conditions that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine and set forth in the Award
Certificate, subject to the following provisions.

(a)  Form . Stock Options granted under the Plan may, at the discretion of the
Committee, be in the form of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options or a
combination of the two, subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (g) below with
respect to grants of Incentive Stock Options. The Committee shall designate the form of the
Stock Option at the time of grant and such form shall be specified in the Award Certificate.
Where both a Nonqualified Stock Option and an Incentive Stock Option are granted to an
Employee at the same time, such Awards shall be deemed to have been granted in separate
grants, shall be clearly identified, and in no event will the exercise of one such Award
affect the right to exercise the other Award.

(b)  Amount of Shares . The Committee may grant Stock Options to an Employee in
such amounts as the Committee may determine, subject to the limitations set forth in Section
5.1 of the Plan. The number of Shares subject to a Stock Option shall be set forth in the
Award Certificate.

(c)  Exercise Price . The Exercise Price of Stock Options granted under the Plan
shall be determined by the Committee at the time of grant and set forth in the Award
Certificate. In no event shall the Exercise Price with respect to any Share subject to a Stock
Option be set at a price that is less than the grant date Fair Market Value of a Share.

(d)  Option Term . Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(iv) of this
Section 4.4, all Stock Options granted under the Plan shall lapse no later than the tenth
anniversary of the date of grant.

(e)  Timing of Exercise . Except as the Committee may otherwise determine at the
time of grant, and subject to (1) the Committee s authority under Section 3.2(g) to waive or
amend any terms, conditions, limitations or restrictions of an Award, (2)

-12- 

Section 5.4 relating to Changes in Control and (3) the special forfeiture provisions of
Section 7.2, each Stock Option granted under the Plan shall be exercisable in whole or in
part, subject to the following conditions, limitations and restrictions.

(i)   Vesting  . The Committee will determine and set forth in the Award Certificate the
date on which the Stock Options subject to the Award may first be exercised. Unless the
Award Certificate provides otherwise, and except as otherwise provided in this Section
4.4(e) and in Section 5.4 relating to Changes in Control, no Stock Option shall be
exercisable prior to the one-year anniversary of the date of grant.

(ii)   Retirement  . Upon a Participant s Retirement,

(A) All Stock Options granted to the Participant during the one-year period
immediately preceding the Participant s Retirement date that have not become
exercisable as of the such Retirement date shall be forfeited;

(B) All Stock Options granted to the Participant more than one year prior to the
Participant s Retirement date that have not become exercisable as of such Retirement
date shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule set
out in the applicable Award Certificate; and

(C) To the extent that Stock Options have become exercisable as of the
Participant s Retirement date, or become exercisable after such date in accordance with
paragraph (B) above, such Stock Options must be exercised, if at all, within five years
after the Participant s Retirement date, or, if earlier, no later than the original
expiration date of the Stock Option.

(D) In the event the Participant s death occurs after Retirement, the
Participant s Stock Options that have not become exercisable in accordance with
paragraph (B) as of the date of the Participant s death shall become immediately
exercisable and all of the Participant s Stock Options must be exercised, if at all,
within the later of (x) five years from the Participant s Retirement date or, if
earlier, the original expiration date of Stock Option and (y) one year from the
Participant s date of death.

(iii)   Termination Due to Business Divestiture  . Upon a Participant s Termination Due
to Business Divestiture, all Stock Options granted to the Participant that have not become
exercisable as of the date of such Termination Due to Business Divestiture shall become
immediately exercisable and must be exercised, if at all, within five years after such
termination date, but in no event later than the original expiration date of the Stock
Option.

(iv)   Disability  . Upon the Disability of a Participant, all Stock Options granted to
the Participant that have not become exercisable as of the date of

-13- 

Disability shall become immediately exercisable and shall remain exercisable for the
full duration of the Stock Option s original term.

(v)   Death  . Upon a Participant s Termination of Employment due to his or her death
during the term of a Stock Option, all Stock Options held by the Participant at the time
of his or her death that are not already exercisable shall become immediately exercisable
and all Stock Options shall remain exercisable for the longer of (A) the full duration of
the Stock Option s original term and (B) one year from the Participant s date of death.
Stock Options of a deceased Participant may be exercised only by the Participant s
Beneficiary or, if none, by the legal representative of the Participant s estate or by the
person given authority to exercise such Stock Options by the Participant s will or by
operation of law. In the event a Stock Option is exercised by the executor or
administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or persons to whom the Stock
Option has been transferred under the Participant s will or the applicable laws of descent
and distribution, Schering-Plough shall be under no obligation to deliver Shares unless
and until Schering-Plough is satisfied that the person or persons exercising the Stock
Option is or are the duly appointed executor(s) or administrator(s) of the deceased
Participant or the person to whom the Stock Option has been transferred under the
Participant s will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution.

(vi)   Other Terminations  . Upon an Employee s Termination of Employment for any
reason other than death, Disability, Retirement, Termination Due to Business Divestiture
or Termination for Cause, all Stock Options that have not become exercisable as of the
date of termination shall be forfeited and to the extent that Stock Options have become
exercisable as of such date, such Stock Options must be exercised, if at all, within three
months after such Termination of Employment (one year in the case of an Involuntary
Termination), but in no event later than the original expiration date of the Stock Option.

(f)  Method of Exercise; Payment of Exercise Price . A Stock Option may be
exercised by giving written notice to Schering-Plough specifying the number of Shares to be
purchased, which shall be accompanied by full payment of the Exercise Price plus applicable
taxes, if any. No Stock Option shall be exercised for less than the lesser of 100 Shares or
the full number of Shares for which the Stock Option is then exercisable. No stock
certificates shall be registered and delivered, and no Participant shall have any rights to
dividends or other rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares subject to the Stock Option
until the Participant has given written notice of exercise, made full payment of the Exercise
Price for such Shares (including taxes) and, if requested by Schering-Plough, has given the
representation described in Section 7.4. Payment of the Exercise Price may be made in cash or
by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer, or postal or express money order. In addition,
at the discretion of the Committee, payment of all or a portion of the Exercise Price may be
made by  

-14- 

(i) Delivering a properly executed exercise notice to Schering-Plough or its
agent, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to
Schering-Plough the amount of sale proceeds with respect to the portion of the Shares to be
acquired having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the sum of the
applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid;

(ii) Tendering (actually or by attestation) to Schering-Plough previously
acquired Shares that have been held by the Participant for at least six months, subject to
paragraph (iv), and that have a Fair Market Value on the day prior to the date of exercise
equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid, provided that the
Board has specifically approved the repurchase of such Shares (unless such approval is not
required by the terms of the By-Laws of Schering-Plough) and the Committee has determined
that, as of the date of repurchase, Schering-Plough is, and after the repurchase will
continue to be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due; or

(iii) Provided such payment method has been expressly authorized by the Board or
the Committee in advance and subject to any requirements of applicable law and regulations,
instructing Schering-Plough to reduce the number of Shares that would otherwise be issued
by such number of Shares as have in the aggregate a Fair Market Value on the date of
exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid.

(iv) The Committee, in consideration of applicable accounting standards, may waive
any holding period on Shares required to tender pursuant to clause (ii).

(g)  Incentive Stock Options . Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan
shall be subject to the following additional conditions, limitations and restrictions:

(i)   Eligibility  . Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees of
Schering-Plough or an Affiliate or Subsidiary that is a  subsidiary  or  parent
corporation , within the meaning of Code Section 424, of Schering-Plough. In no event may
an Incentive Stock Option be granted to an Employee who owns stock possessing more than 10%
of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of Schering-Plough or such
Affiliate or Subsidiary.

(ii)   Timing of Grant  . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted under the Plan
after the 10-year anniversary of earlier of (A) the date the Plan is adopted by the Board
and (B) the date the Plan is approved by Schering-Plough s shareholders.

(iii)   Amount of Award  . The aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of grant of the
Shares with respect to which such Incentive Stock Options first become exercisable during
any calendar year under the terms of the Plan for any Participant may not exceed $100,000.
For purposes of this $100,000 limit, the Participant s Incentive Stock Options under this
Plan and all Plans maintained by

-15- 

Schering-Plough and its Affiliates and Subsidiaries shall be aggregated. To the extent
any Incentive Stock Option first becomes exercisable in a calendar year and such limit
would be exceeded, such Incentive Stock Option shall thereafter be treated as a
Nonqualified Stock Option for all purposes.

(iv)   Timing of Exercise  . In the event that an Incentive Stock Option is exercised by
a Participant more than three months after a Participant s Termination of Employment (or
more than 12 months after the Participant is Disabled), such Incentive Stock Option shall
thereafter be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option for all purposes. For this purpose, an
Employee s employment relationship shall be treated as continuing intact while the Employee
is on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence (such as temporary
employment with the Government) duly authorized in writing by Schering-Plough if the period
of such leave does not exceed three months or, if longer, so long as the Employee s right
to reemployment with Schering-Plough or an Affiliate or Subsidiary is guaranteed either by
statute or by contract. If the period of leave exceeds three months and the Employee s
right to reemployment is not guaranteed either by statute or by contract, the employment
relationship will be deemed to terminate on the first date immediately following such
three-month period.

(v)   Transfer Restrictions  . In no event shall the Committee permit an Incentive Stock
Option to be transferred by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution, and any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable, during
his or her lifetime, only by the Participant.

(h)  No Repricing . Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.3, in no event
shall the Committee decrease the Exercise Price of a Stock Option after the date of grant or
cancel outstanding Stock Options and grant replacement Stock Options with a lower Exercise
Price without first obtaining the approval of the holders of a majority of the Shares present
in person or by proxy at a meeting of Schering-Plough s shareholders and entitled to vote at
such meeting.

4.5  Restricted Stock . The Committee may grant Restricted Stock under the Plan to such
Employees as the Committee may from time to time select, in such amounts and subject to such terms,
conditions and restrictions (including, without limitation, transfer restrictions) and Restriction
Periods as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine and set forth in the Award Certificate.
The Committee, in its discretion, may condition an Award of Restricted Stock on the Participant
giving the representation described in Section 7.4.

(a)  Payment of Restricted Stock . As soon as practicable after Restricted
Stock is awarded, a certificate or certificates for all such Shares of Restricted Stock shall
be registered in the name of the Participant and, at the discretion of Schering-Plough, be
either (i) delivered to the Participant or (ii) held by Schering-Plough on behalf of the
Participant until all restrictions have lapsed. The Participant shall

-16- 

thereupon have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to such Shares, including
the right to vote and receive dividends or other distributions made or paid with respect to
such Shares, except that such Shares shall be subject to the forfeiture provisions of clause
(i) below. The Committee may, in its discretion, impose and set forth in the Award
Certificate such other restrictions on Restricted Stock for such Restriction Period or
Periods as it deems appropriate. Except as the Committee may otherwise determine, and subject
to (1) the Committee s authority under Section 3.2 to waive or amend any terms, conditions,
limitations or restrictions of an Award, (2) Section 5.4 relating to Changes in Control and
(3) the special forfeiture provisions of Section 7.2, such Shares shall be subject to the
following provisions.

(i)   Forfeiture and Lapse of Restriction  . Shares of Restricted Stock shall be
forfeited by a Participant upon the Participant s Termination of Employment during the
Restriction Period for any reason other than the Participant s death, Disability or
Termination Due to Business Divestiture. Subject to clause (ii) below and Section 5.4
relating to Changes in Control, restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock shall lapse at
the end of the Restriction Period set forth in the Award Certificate.

(ii)   Accelerated Lapse  . Notwithstanding the foregoing, all restrictions on Shares
of Restricted Stock shall immediately lapse upon the death or Disability of the
Participant. The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in the applicable Award
Certificate that restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock shall also lapse upon the
Participant s Retirement or Involuntary Termination.

(b)  Legend . In order to enforce any restrictions that the Committee may
impose on Restricted Stock, the Committee shall cause a legend or legends setting forth a
specific reference to such restrictions to be placed on all certificates for Shares of
Restricted Stock. As restrictions are released, a new certificate, without the legend, for
the number of Shares with respect to which restrictions have been released shall be issued
and delivered to the Participant as soon as possible thereafter.

4.6  Deferred Stock Units . The Committee may grant Deferred Stock Units under the Plan
to those Employees whom the Committee may from time to time select, in such amounts and pursuant to
such other terms and conditions that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine and set forth
in the Award Certificate, subject to the following provisions.

(a)  Deferred Stock Account . Deferred Stock Units awarded to a Participant
shall be credited to a Deferred Stock Account established and maintained by Schering-Plough on
behalf of the Participant. No Participant shall be a shareholder with respect to any Shares
underlying Deferred Stock Units credited to his Deferred Stock Account, nor shall the
Participant (or the Participant s Beneficiary) have any right to or interest in any specific
assets of Schering-Plough or its Affiliates or

-17- 

Subsidiaries, including any Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan, until such
Shares are actually distributed to the Participant.

(b)  Dividend Equivalents . Unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time
of grant and sets forth in the applicable Award Certificate, in the event of Schering-Plough s
payment of dividends on Shares, Dividend Equivalents shall be applied as follows.

(i)   Stock Dividends  . Dividend Equivalents relating to stock dividends shall be
credited to a Participant s Deferred Stock Account as of the dividend payment date in the
form of additional Deferred Stock Units, based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the
dividend payment date.

(ii)   Non-Stock Dividends  . Dividend Equivalents relating to dividends other than
stock dividends shall be distributed immediately to the Participant as additional
compensation on the dividend payment date.

(c)  Payment of Shares . Subject to paragraph (d) below and Section 5.4 relating to
Changes in Control, Deferred Stock Units shall be paid in Shares, at the rate of one Share per
each Deferred Stock Unit, at such time or times and in such manner as the Committee shall
determine at the time of grant and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, which can be
either:

(i)   Lump Sum  . A single lump sum payable on a specified date not earlier than the
six-month anniversary of the date the Deferred Stock Units were awarded to the
Participant, or

(ii)   Installments  . In a set number of equal or unequal periodic installments
commencing on a specified date not earlier than the six-month anniversary of the date the
Deferred Stock Units were awarded to the Participant.

The timing and form of payment of Shares in settlement of Deferred Stock Units shall be set
forth in the Award Certificate at the time of grant and, to the extent such Deferred Stock Units
are subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, shall not be subject to
modification or acceleration by the Committee, except as provided in paragraph (d) below and in
Section 5.4. The Committee, in its discretion, may condition the issuance of Shares in
connection with Deferred Stock Units on the Participant giving the representation described in
Section 7.4.

(d)  Termination and Forfeiture . Unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise,
and subject to (1) the Committee s authority under Section 3.2 to waive or amend any terms,
conditions, limitations or restrictions of an Award, (2) Section 5.4 relating to Changes in
Control and (3) the special forfeiture provisions of Section 7.2, any undistributed Deferred
Stock Units remaining in a Participant s Deferred Stock Account shall be forfeited by the
Participant upon the Participant s Termination of Employment for any reason other than other
than the death,

-18- 

Disability, Retirement, Termination Due to Business Divestiture or Involuntary
Termination of the Participant.

(i)   Death  . Upon the death of a Participant prior to full payment of the
Participant s Deferred Stock Account, the remaining balance of the Participant s Deferred
Stock Account shall be paid in Shares to the Participant s Beneficiary or, if none, to the
legal representative of the Participant s estate or to the person to whom the
Participant s Deferred Stock Unit payment rights are transferred under Participant s will
or by operation of law, in a single lump sum payment as soon as administratively feasible
after the Participant s death. Schering-Plough shall be under no obligation to deliver
Shares in satisfaction of a Deferred Stock Unit unless and until Schering-Plough is
satisfied that the person or persons to whom the Shares are being transferred are the duly
appointed executor(s) or administrator(s) of the deceased Participant or the person to
whom the Deferred Stock Units have been transferred under the Participant s will or by the
applicable laws of descent and distribution.

(ii)   Disability  . In the event a Participant becomes Disabled prior to full payment
of the Participant s Deferred Stock Account, the remaining balance of the Participant s
Deferred Stock Account shall be paid in Shares at the scheduled time and in the scheduled
manner set out in the applicable Award Certificate at the time of grant; provided, however
that the Committee may determine at the time of grant and set forth in an Award
Certificate that if the Participant becomes Disabled prior to the scheduled payment date
or dates of the Deferred Stock Units, the remaining balance the Participant s Deferred
Stock Account shall be paid to the Participant in a single lump sum distribution as soon
as administratively feasible after the date the Participant becomes Disabled.

(iii)   Retirement  . Upon the Retirement of a Participant prior to full payment of the
Participant s Deferred Stock Account, the Participant shall forfeit all unpaid Deferred
Stock Units that were awarded to the Participant during the one-year period immediately
preceding the Participant s Retirement date and all other Deferred Stock Units remaining
in the Participant s Deferred Stock Account shall be paid at the scheduled time and in the
scheduled manner set out in the applicable Award Certificate at the time of grant;
provided, however that the Committee may determine at the time of grant and set forth in
an Award Certificate that the entire unpaid balance of the a Participant s Deferred Stock
Account shall be forfeited upon the Participant s Retirement. Alternatively, to the extent
permitted under Section 409A of the Code, the Committee may determine at the time of grant
and set forth in an Award Certificate that, in the event of the Participant s Retirement
prior to the scheduled payment date or dates of the Deferred Stock Units, the remaining
balance the Participant s Deferred Stock Account shall be paid to the Participant in a
single lump sum distribution as soon as administratively feasible after the Participant s
Retirement date, but not earlier than the six-month anniversary of the Participant s
Retirement date if the Participant is a Section 409A Specified Employee.

-19- 

(iv)   Termination Due to Business Divestiture  . Upon a Participant s Termination Due
to Business Divestiture prior to full payment of the Participant s Deferred Stock Account,
the remaining balance of the Participant s Deferred Stock Account shall be paid in Shares
at the scheduled time and in the scheduled manner set out in the applicable Award
Certificate at the time of grant. Alternatively, to the extent permitted under Section
409A of the Code, the Committee may determine at the time of grant and set forth in an
Award Certificate that, in the event of the Participant s Termination Due to Business
Divestiture prior to the scheduled payment date or dates of the Deferred Stock Units, the
remaining balance the Participant s Deferred Stock Account shall be paid to the
Participant in a single lump sum distribution as soon as administratively feasible after
the Participant s termination date, but not earlier than the six-month anniversary of the
Participant s termination date if the Participant is a Section 409A Specified Employee.

(v)   Involuntary Termination  . Upon the Involuntary Termination of a Participant
prior to full payment of the Participant s Deferred Stock Account, the Participant shall
forfeit  

(A) All unpaid Deferred Stock Units that were awarded to the Participant during
the one-year period immediately preceding the Participant s Involuntary Termination
date; and

(B) A prorated portion of the remaining Deferred Stock Units under each
Deferred Stock Unit Award determined by subtracting from the number of unpaid Deferred
Stock Units remaining under such Award the product of (I) the number of unpaid Deferred
Stock Units remaining under such Award, multiplied by (II) a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of full months worked by the Participant between the date of grant
and the Involuntary Termination date, and the denominator of which is the total number
of full months between the date of grant and the originally scheduled payment date.

All other Deferred Stock Units remaining in the Participant s Deferred Stock
Account shall be paid at the scheduled time and in the scheduled manner set out in the
applicable Award Certificate at the time of grant.

(e)  Payment Deferrals . Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code, the Committee may from time to time and on a case by case basis permit a Participant to
elect to defer payment of his Deferred Stock Units, or change the form of payment of Shares
issued in connection with Deferred Stock Units. Elections to defer the payment date or change
the form of payment shall be subject to the following limitations, which may not be waived by
the Committee:

-20- 

(i) Such election must be made, if at all, no less than 12 months prior to the
originally scheduled payment date set out in the Award Certificate for the Deferred Stock
Units with respect to which the election is made;

(ii) Such election may not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on
which the election is made; and

(iii) Except with respect to an election to receive payment upon Disability, the
first scheduled payment must be deferred pursuant to the election for a period of at least
five years from the original payment date set out in the Award Certificate for the
Deferred Stock Units with respect to which the election is made.

For purposes of this paragraph (e), each scheduled installment payment under a Deferred Stock
Unit Award shall be deemed to be a separate payment.

(f)  Committee Discretion . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary
(including anything in Section 3.2 relating to the authority of the Committee or Section 5.4
relating to Changes in Control) in no event shall the Committee have discretion under the Plan
to accelerate the payment date or deferred payment date of Deferred Stock Units, except to the
extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code and applicable U.S. Treasury Department or
Internal Revenue Service guidance issued in connection with Section 409A of the Code.

4.7  Other Stock-Based Awards . Subject to compliance with the requirements of Section
409A of the Code, the Committee may, from time to time, grant to an Employee Other Stock-Based
Awards under the Plan. These Awards may include, among other things Shares, restricted stock
options, stock appreciation rights that are settled in Shares, and phantom or hypothetical Shares.
The Committee shall determine, in its discretion, the terms, conditions, restrictions and
limitations, if any, that shall apply to Other Stock-Based Awards granted pursuant to this Section
4.7 (including whether Dividend Equivalents shall be credited or paid with respect to any such
Award), which terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations shall be set forth in the Award
Certificate. The Committee, in its discretion, may condition the delivery of Shares in connection
with an Award under this Section 4.7 on the Participant giving the representation described in
Section 7.4.

4.8  Performance Awards . The Committee may grant Performance Awards under the Plan only to
such Employees as the Committee may from time to time select, in such amounts and subject to such
terms and conditions as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine. Performance Awards granted
under the Plan shall be subject to the following provisions.

(a)  General . Performance Awards that are not Qualified Performance Awards
shall be based on such Performance Cycles, Performance Measures and vesting or payout formulas
(which may be the same as or different than those applicable to

-21- 

Performance Awards that are designated as Qualified Performance Awards) as the Committee,
in its discretion, may establish for such purposes.

(b)  Form of Payment . Performance Awards may be paid in cash, Shares, Stock
Options, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Other Stock-Based Awards or any combination
of the foregoing in such proportions as the Committee may determine, in its discretion, and
set forth in the Award Certificate. To the extent that a Performance Award is paid in Shares,
Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units and/or Other Stock-Based Awards, the
amount of each such form of Award that is payable shall be based on the Fair Market Value of a
Share on the date of grant, subject to such reasonable Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock
Unit discount factors and/or Stock Option valuation methodologies as the Committee may, in its
discretion, apply. Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units and Other Stock-Based
Awards granted in connection with a Performance Award shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 4.7, respectively.

(c)  Qualified Performance Awards . A Performance Award granted to a Covered
Employee under the Plan may, at the discretion of the Committee, be designated as a Qualified
Performance Award. Qualified Performance Awards under the Plan may be granted either
separately or at the same time as Awards that are not designated as Qualified Performance
Awards; provided, however, that in no event may the payment of an Award that is not a
Qualified Performance Award be contingent upon the failure to attain a specific level of
performance on the Performance Measure(s) applicable to a Qualified Performance Award for the
same Performance Cycle. In the event the Committee designates an Award as a Qualified
Performance Award, any determinations of the Committee pertaining to Performance Measures and
other terms and conditions of such Qualified Performance Award (other than a determination
under paragraph (iii)(D) below to reduce the amount of the Award) shall be in writing and made
within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period. A Performance Award that the
Committee designates as a Qualified Performance Award shall be subject to the following
additional requirements.

(i)   Performance Cycles  . Performance Awards that are designated as Qualified
Performance Awards shall be awarded in connection with a Performance Cycle. The Committee
shall determine the length of a Performance Cycle within the Qualified Performance Award
Determination Period. In the event that the Committee determines that a Performance Cycle
shall be a period greater than one fiscal year, a new Qualified Performance Award may be
granted and a new Performance Cycle may commence prior to the completion of the
Performance Cycle associated with the prior Qualified Performance Award.

(ii)   Participants  . Within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period,
the Committee shall determine the Covered Employees who shall be eligible to receive a
Qualified Performance Award for such Performance Cycle.

-22- 

(iii)   Performance Measures; Targets; Vesting and Payout Formulas  .

(A) Within the Qualified Performance Award Determination Period, the Committee
shall fix and establish, in writing, (1) the Performance Measure(s) that shall apply to
the Qualified Performance Award for the Performance Cycle; (2) the target amount of
such Qualified Performance Award that shall be payable to each such Covered Employee;
and (3) the vesting and/or payout formula for computing the actual amount of such
Qualified Performance Award that shall become vested and/or payable with respect to
each level of attained performance. Towards this end, such vesting and/or payout
formula shall, based on objective criteria, set forth for the applicable Performance
Measure(s) the minimum level of performance that must be attained during the
Performance Cycle before any such Qualified Performance Award shall become vested
and/or payable and the percentage of the target amount of such Award that shall be
vested and/or payable to each Covered Employee upon attainment of various levels of
performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.

(B) The Committee may, in its discretion, select Performance Measures that
measure the performance of Schering-Plough or one or more business units, divisions,
Affiliates or Subsidiaries of Schering-Plough. The Committee may select Performance
Measures that are absolute or relative to the performance of one or more comparable
companies or an index of comparable companies.

(C) In applying Performance Measures, the Committee may, in its discretion,
exclude unanticipated, unusual or infrequently occurring items (including any event
described in Section 5.3 and the cumulative effect of changes in the law, regulations
or accounting rules), and may determine within the Qualified Performance Award
Determination Period to exclude other items.

(D) Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph (c)(iii) to the contrary, the
Committee may, on a case by case basis and in its sole discretion, reduce, but not
increase, the amount of any Qualified Performance Award that is payable to a Covered
Employee with respect to a Performance Cycle, provided, however, that no such reduction
shall result in an increase in the dollar amount of any such Qualified Performance
Award payable to any other Covered Employee.

(iv)   Committee Certification  . No Qualified Performance Award shall vest or be
paid to a Covered Employee under the Plan unless and until the Committee certifies in
writing the level of attainment of the applicable Performance Measure(s) for the
applicable Performance Cycle.

-23- 

(v)   Limitation on Awards  . Subject to Sections 5.1 and 5.3, the dollar value of
any Qualified Performance Award payable in cash to any Covered Employee shall not exceed
$3 million (or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, $6,000,000) for any 12-month
Performance Cycle; provided that for any Performance Cycle that is the same as a
performance period under the Operations Management Team Incentive Plan, such amounts shall
serve as combined limits under both this Plan and the Operations Management Team Incentive
Plan. For any Performance Cycle greater than 12 months in duration, this maximum will be
adjusted proportionately.

(vi)   Code Section 162(m)  . It is the intent of Schering-Plough that Qualified
Performance Awards granted to Covered Employees under the Plan shall satisfy the
applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder so that
Schering-Plough s tax deduction for Qualified Performance Awards is not disallowed in
whole or in part by operation of Code Section 162(m). If any provision of this Plan
pertaining to Qualified Performance Awards, or any Award to a Covered Employee under the
Plan that the Committee designates as a Qualified Performance Award, would otherwise
frustrate or conflict with such intent, that provision or Award shall be interpreted and
deemed amended so as to avoid such conflict.

4.9  Substitute Awards . The Committee may make Awards under the Plan to Acquired
Grantees through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding stock-based awards
previously granted to such Acquired Grantees. Such assumed or substituted Awards will be subject to
the terms and conditions of the original awards made by the Acquired Company, with such adjustments
therein as the Committee considers appropriate to give effect to the relevant provisions of any
agreement for the acquisition of the Acquired Company. Any grant of Stock Options pursuant to this
Section 4.9 will be subject to the rules set out in Section 424 of the Code and any final
regulations published thereunder, regardless of whether the Stock Option is intended to be an
Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.

4.10  Termination for Cause . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if a
Participant incurs a Termination for Cause, then all of the Participant s outstanding Awards under
the Plan (whether or not vested or exercisable) will immediately be cancelled and forfeited and the
special forfeiture provisions of Section 7.2 shall apply. The exercise of any Stock Option or the
payment of any Award may be delayed, in the Committee s discretion, in the event that a potential
Termination for Cause is pending.

V. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN; ADJUSTMENTS 

5.1  Shares Available . The Shares issuable under the Plan are authorized but unissued
Shares or Shares held in Schering-Plough s treasury. Subject to adjustment in accordance with
Section 5.3, the total number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be issued under the Plan
may not exceed 92,000,000 Shares, which includes the number of Shares that have been approved by
Schering-Plough shareholders for issuance under the Prior

-24- 

Plan, but which have not been awarded under the Prior Plan as of the Effective Date and which are
no longer available for issuance under Prior Plan for any reason (including without limitation, the
discontinuance or termination of the Prior Plan). Subject to adjustment in accordance with Section
5.3, from such aggregate limit:

(a) No more than an aggregate of 46,000,000 Shares may be issued under Incentive Stock
Options during the term of the Plan;

(b) No more than an aggregate of 46,000,000 Shares may be issued in the form of
Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares during
the term of the Plan; and

(c) The maximum aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Stock Options may be
granted to any one Participant during any fiscal year of Schering-Plough may not exceed
3,000,000 Shares.

5.2  Counting Rules .

(a)  Shares Counted . For purposes of determining the number of Shares remaining
available for issuance under the Plan (including Shares originally approved under the Prior
Plan, but made available for issuance under this Plan in accordance with Section 5.1), only
Awards payable in Shares shall be counted. In addition, Shares that are tendered or withheld
in payment of all or part of the Exercise Price of a Stock Option, or in satisfaction of the
withholding obligations of an Award shall be counted against the remaining Shares and shall no
longer be available for issuance under the Plan.

(b)  Shares Not Counted . The following Shares relating to Awards under this Plan
(or Awards under the Prior Plan that are outstanding as of the Effective Date) are not counted
as issued Shares for purposes of determining the number of Shares remaining available for
issuance under the Plan, and shall remain available for issuance under the Plan.

(i) Shares underlying awards that are settled in cash in lieu of Shares;

(ii) Shares underlying Awards that expire, are forfeited, cancelled or terminate for
any other reason without the issuance of Shares;

(iii) Shares issued in connection with Awards that are assumed, converted or
substituted as the result of Schering-Plough s acquisition of an Acquired Company or the
combination of Schering-Plough with another company; and

(iv) Shares of Restricted Stock that are forfeited and returned to Schering-Plough
upon a Participant s Termination of Employment.

-25- 

5.3  Adjustments . If there is a change in the outstanding Shares by reason of any stock
split, reverse stock split, dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares,
other securities or other property), extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, split-up,
spin-off, reorganization, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities, the
issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities, or other similar
corporate transaction or event, then in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or
potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, an adjustment in the number or
kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, the number of Shares underlying an outstanding
Award, the Exercise price of a Stock Option or the number of Deferred Stock Units credited to a
Deferred Stock Account will be made by the Committee and such adjustment will be conclusive and
binding for all purposes under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustments shall be
made with respect to Qualified Performance Awards granted to a Covered Employee to the extent such
adjustment would cause the Award to fail to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section
162(m) of the Code.

5.4  Consequences of a Change in Control . Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, Awards that are outstanding as of the effective date of a Change in Control shall be subject
to the following provisions.

(a)  Replacement Awards . Any Award granted hereunder shall be deemed to apply
to the securities, cash or other property (subject to adjustment by cash payment in lieu of
fractional interests) to which a holder of the number of Shares equal to the number of Shares
underlying the Participant s Awards would have been entitled pursuant to the Change in
Control, and proper provisions shall be made to ensure that this clause is a condition to any
transaction that would result in a Change in Control; provided, however, that during the
60-day period beginning on the date of Change in Control, the Committee (or, if applicable,
the board of directors of the entity assuming Schering-Plough s obligations under the Plan)
may, in its discretion, take any of the following actions with respect to each Award that is
outstanding as of the effective date of Change in Control:

(i) Modify or adjust the Award to reflect the Change in Control; or

(ii) Cancel the Award and cause the acquiring or surviving corporation to replace
it with an equivalent right after the Change in Control.

(b)  Stock Options . All outstanding Stock Options that have not become
exercisable as of the effective date of a Change in Control shall continue to become
exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule set out in the applicable Award
Certificate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a Participant incurs an Involuntary
Termination within two years after the effective date of a Change in Control, all of the
Participant s outstanding Stock Options shall become immediately vested and exercisable as of
the date of such Involuntary Termination and shall remain exercisable for the full duration
of the Stock Option s original term, notwithstanding the Participant s Termination of
Employment. In addition,

-26- 

during the 60-day period beginning on the date of Change in Control, the Committee may,
in its discretion, cancel all or a portion of a Participant s remaining Stock Options and, in
consideration of such cancellation, pay the Participant with respect to each Share issuable
under the cancelled Stock Option an amount in cash equal to the amount by which the Change in
Control Price exceeds the Exercise Price of the cancelled Stock Option.

(c)  Deferred Stock Units . All Deferred Stock Units credited to a
Participant s Deferred Stock Account but not yet distributed as of the effective date of the
Change in Control shall be paid in Shares at the scheduled time and in the scheduled manner
set out in the applicable Award Certificate at the time of grant. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event a Participant incurs an Involuntary Termination within two years
after the effective date of a Change in Control, all Deferred Stock Units credited to a
Participant s Deferred Stock Account but not yet distributed as of the date of such
Involuntary Termination shall become immediately vested and non-forfeitable and shall be
distributed in a single lump sum cash payment, in lieu of Shares, as soon practicable
thereafter (but in no event more than 30 days after the date of such Involuntary
Termination) at a dollar value per Deferred Stock Unit equal to the Fair Market Value of a
Share on the date of termination.

(d)  Restricted Stock and Other Stock-Based Awards . All restrictions and
conditions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards shall continue to
apply for the duration of the Restriction Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the
event a Participant incurs an Involuntary Termination within two years after the effective
date of a Change in Control, all restrictions and conditions on any Shares of Restricted
Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards shall immediately lapse or be deemed satisfied, as the case
may be, as of the date of such Involuntary Termination and all such Awards shall become
vested and non-forfeitable as of such date.

(e)  Performance Awards . The Committee shall set out in the Award Certificate
for each Performance Award the terms and conditions that shall apply to such Performance
Award in the event the Award is outstanding as of the effective date of a Change in Control.

5.5  Fractional Shares . No fractional Shares shall be issued under the Plan. In the
event that a Participant acquires the right to receive a fractional Share under the Plan, such
Participant shall receive, in lieu of such fractional Share, cash equal to the Fair Market Value of
the fractional Share as of the date of settlement.

VI. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 

6.1  Amendment . The Plan may be amended at any time and from time to time by the Board
without the approval of shareholders of Schering-Plough, except that no material revision to the
terms of the Plan will be effective without first obtaining the approval of

-27- 

the amendment by the holders of a majority of the Shares present in person or by proxy at a meeting
of Schering-Plough s shareholders and entitled to vote at such meeting. A revision is  material 
for this purpose if, among other changes, it (a) materially increases the number of Shares that may
be issued under the Plan (other than an increase pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan), (b) changes
the types of Awards available under the Plan, (c) expands the class of persons eligible to receive
Awards under the Plan, (d) extends the term of the Plan, (e) decreases the Exercise Price at which
Stock Options may be granted, (f) reduces the Exercise Price of outstanding Stock Options, or (g)
results in the replacement of outstanding Stock Options with new Awards that have an Exercise Price
that is lower than the Exercise Price of the replaced Stock Options. No amendment of the Plan made
without the Participant s written consent may adversely affect any right of a Participant with
respect to an outstanding Award. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Plan is intended to
incorporate all applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code and guidance issued thereunder
by the U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service, and the Plan will be deemed to be
amended as necessary to comply with those requirements.

6.2  Termination . The Plan shall terminate upon the earlier of the following dates or
events to occur:

(a) 
       
     The adoption of a resolution of the Board terminating the Plan; or 

(b) 
       
     December 31, 2011. 

No Awards shall be granted under this Plan after it has been terminated. However, the
termination of the Plan shall not alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person,
without such person s consent, under any Award theretofore granted under the Plan. After the
termination of the Plan, any previously granted Awards shall remain in effect and shall continue to
be governed by the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate.

VII. GENERAL PROVISIONS 

7.1  Nontransferability of Awards . No Award under the Plan shall be subject in any manner
to alienation, anticipation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or transfer, and no other
persons will otherwise acquire any rights therein, except as provided below.

(a) Any Award may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent or distribution.

(b) The Committee may provide in the Award Certificate that all or any part of the
vested portion of a Nonqualified Stock Option may, subject to the prior written consent of
the Committee, be transferred to one or more of the following classes of donees:

(i) a family member;

-28- 

(ii) a trust for the benefit of a family member; or

(iii) a limited partnership whose partners are solely family members, or any other legal
entity set up for the benefit of family members.

For purposes of this paragraph (b), a family member means a Participant s spouse, children,
grandchildren, parents, grandparents, siblings, nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews,
including adopted, in-laws and step family members.

(c) Any transferred Award will be subject to all of the same terms and conditions as
provided in the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate. The Participant or the
Participant s estate will remain liable for any withholding tax that may be imposed by any
federal, state or local tax authority. The Committee may, in its discretion, disallow all or
a part of any transfer of an Award pursuant to paragraph (b) above unless and until the
Participant makes arrangements satisfactory to the Committee for the payment of any
withholding tax. The Participant must immediately notify the Committee, in the form and
manner required by the Committee, of any proposed transfer of an Award pursuant to paragraph
(b). No transfer will be effective until the Committee consents to the transfer in writing.

(d) Except as otherwise provided in the Award Certificate, any Nonqualified Stock
Option transferred by a Participant pursuant to this paragraph (d) may be exercised by the
transferee only to the extent that the Award would have been exercisable by the Participant
had no transfer occurred. The transfer of Shares upon exercise of the Award will be
conditioned on the payment of any withholding tax.

(e) Restricted Stock may be freely transferred after the restrictions lapse or are
satisfied and the Shares are delivered; provided, however, that Restricted Stock awarded to
an affiliate of Schering-Plough may be transferred only pursuant to Rule 144 under the
Securities Act, or pursuant to an effective registration for resale under the Securities Act.
For purposes of this paragraph (e),  affiliate  will have the meaning assigned to that term
under Rule 144.

(f) In no event may a Participant transfer an Incentive Stock Option other than by
will or the laws of descent and distribution.

7.2  Special Forfeiture Provision . Except as otherwise provided in the current employment
agreement between Schering-Plough and the relevant Employee (which agreement shall take precedent
over this Section 7.2), and if the Committee, in its discretion, provides otherwise in the
applicable Award Certificate, if a Participant either  

(a) incurs a Termination for Cause or

-29- 

(b) incurs a Termination of Employment for any reason other than other than death,
Disability, Retirement, Termination Due to Business Divestiture or Involuntary Termination
and, within one year after such Termination of Employment, without prior written approval of
the Committee, enters into an employment or consulting arrangement (including service as an
agent, partner, stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person
engaged in any business in which Schering-Plough or its Affiliates or Subsidiaries is engaged
that, in the sole judgment of the Committee, is competitive with Schering-Plough or any
Affiliate or Subsidiary, then the Participant shall forfeit and return to Schering-Plough  

(i) the amount of any profit realized upon the exercise of any Stock Options at any
time on or after the date that is ninety (90) days immediately prior to the date of the
Participant s Termination of Employment;

(ii) all shares of Restricted Stock that are not then vested or which vested during
the three-month period immediately preceding such Termination of Employment; and

(iii) all Shares issued to the Participant in payment of the Participant s Deferred
Stock Units during the three-month period immediately preceding such Termination of
Employment.

7.3  Withholding of Taxes . The Committee, in its discretion, may satisfy a Participant s
tax withholding obligations by any of the following methods or any method as it determines to be in
accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Participant resides, has domicile or
performs services.

(a)  Stock Options . As a condition to the delivery of Shares pursuant to the
exercise of a Stock Option, the Committee may require that the Participant, at the time of
exercise, pay to Schering-Plough by cash, certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or
postal or express money order an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding
obligations. The Committee may, however, in its discretion, accept payment of tax withholding
obligations through any of the Exercise Price payment methods described in Section 4.4(f).

(b)  Other Awards Payable in Shares . The Participant shall satisfy the
Participant s tax withholding obligations arising in connection with the release of
restrictions on Restricted Stock or the payment of Deferred Stock Units or Other Stock-Based
Awards by payment to Schering-Plough by cash, certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or
postal or express money order an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding
obligations, provided that the format is approved by Schering-Plough or a designated
third-party administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to the requirements of
applicable law, Schering-Plough may also satisfy the Participant s tax withholding
obligations by other methods, including selling or withholding Shares that would otherwise be
available for delivery,

-30- 

provided that the Committee has specifically approved such payment method in advance.

(c)  Cash Awards . Schering-Plough may satisfy a Participant s tax withholding
obligations arising in connection with the payment of any Award in cash by withholding cash
from such payment.

7.4  Investment Representation . As a condition to any distribution of Shares pursuant to
Awards under the Plan, Schering-Plough may require a Participant to represent in writing that such
Shares are being acquired for the Participant s own account for investment and not with a view to,
or for sale in connection with, the distribution of any part thereof.

7.5  Code Section 83(b) Elections . Neither Schering-Plough, any Affiliate or Subsidiary, nor
the Committee shall have any responsibility in connection with a Participant s election, or attempt
to elect, under Code Section 83(b) to include the value of a Restricted Stock Award in the
Participant s gross income for the year of payment. Any Participant who makes a Code Section 83(b)
election with respect to any such Award shall promptly notify the Committee of such election and
provide the Committee with a copy thereof.

7.6  Beneficiary Designations . Designations of Beneficiaries by a Participant shall be
made in writing and filed with Schering-Plough in such form and in such manner as the Committee may
from time to time prescribe. A Participant may change his or her Beneficiaries in the same manner
at any time prior to the death of the Participant. If a Participant dies without having designated
any surviving Beneficiaries, the Participant s remaining interests in Awards under the Plan shall
be distributed to the legal representative of his estate or in accordance with the Participant s
will.

7.7  No Implied Rights . The establishment and operation of the Plan, including eligibility
as a Participant, shall not be construed as conferring any legal or other right upon any Employee
for the continuation of his or her employment for any Performance Cycle or any other period.
Schering-Plough expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and in
Schering-Plough s sole discretion, to discharge any individual and/or treat him or her without
regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her as a Participant in the Plan.

7.8  No Obligation to Exercise Options . The granting of a Stock Option shall impose no
obligation upon the Participant to exercise such Stock Option.

7.9  No Rights as Shareholders . A Participant granted an Award under the Plan shall have no
rights as a shareholder of Schering-Plough with respect to the Award unless and until such time as
certificates for the Shares underlying the Award are registered in such Participant s name. The
right of any Participant to receive an Award by virtue of participation in the Plan shall be no
greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of Schering-Plough.

-31- 

7.10  Indemnification of Committee . Schering-Plough shall indemnify, to the full extent
permitted by law, each person made or threatened to be made a party to any civil or criminal action
or proceeding by reason of the fact that he, or his testator or intestate, is or was a member of
the Committee or a delegate of the Committee so acting.

7.11  No Required Segregation of Assets . Neither Schering-Plough nor any Affiliate or
Subsidiary shall be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by Awards
granted pursuant to the Plan. In no event shall any interest be paid or accrued on any Award,
including unpaid installments of an Award.

7.12  Nature of Payments . All Awards made pursuant to the Plan are in consideration of
services for Schering-Plough or its Affiliates or Subsidiaries. Any gain realized pursuant to
Awards under the Plan constitutes a special incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be
taken into account as compensation for purposes of any of the employee benefit plans of Schering-
Plough or any Affiliate or Subsidiary except as may otherwise be specifically provided in the
applicable employee benefit plan.

7.13  Compliance with Applicable Law . The obligations of Schering-Plough to issue or
transfer Shares pursuant to Awards shall be subject to (a) the effectiveness of a registration
statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Shares, (b) the
condition that the Shares be listed (or authorized for listing upon official notice of issuance)
upon each stock exchange upon which Shares are listed and (c) compliance with all applicable laws
and approvals by all governmental or regulatory agency as may be required. With respect to
Reporting Persons, it is the intent of Schering-Plough that the Plan and all transactions under the
Plan comply with all applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the Exchange Act.
If any provision or this Plan or of any grant of an Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict
with such intent, that provision shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid such
conflict. No Participant will be entitled to a grant, exercise, transfer or payment of any Award if
the grant, exercise, transfer or payment would violate the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 or any other applicable law. In addition, it is the intent of Schering-Plough that the Plan
and applicable Awards under the Plan comply with the applicable provisions of Sections 162(m) and
422 of the Code, and to the extent an Award is subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code, it is the intent of Schering-Plough that the Award be administered in a manner that satisfies
such requirements. To the extent that any legal requirement of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or
Section 162(m), 409A or 422 of the Code as set forth in the Plan ceases to be required under such
Section, that Plan provision shall cease to apply. The Committee may revoke any Award if it is
contrary to law or modify a Award (to the extent permitted by applicable law) to bring it into
compliance with any valid and mandatory government regulation.

7.14  Headings . Section and paragraph headings are for reference only. In the event of a
conflict between the title and content of a section or paragraph, the content shall control.

-32- 

7.15  Governing Law; Severability . The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken
thereunder shall be governed by the internal substantive laws, and not the choice of law rules, of
the State of New Jersey and construed accordingly, to the extent not superseded by applicable
federal law. If any provision of the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or
unenforceable in whole or in part, the unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect any other provision of the Plan or part thereof, each of which shall remain in full force
and effect.

-33- 

</EX-10.D>

<EX-10.E.VIII>
 3
 y50144exv10wewviii.htm
 EX-10.E.VIII: EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH BRENT SAUNDERS

EX-10.E.VIII 

Exhibit
10(e)(viii)  

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

This Agreement is made by and between Schering-Plough Corporation, a New Jersey Corporation
(the  Company ), and Brent Saunders (the  Executive ), as of the 19th day of December, 2006 (the
 Commencement Date ). This Agreement is a restatement of and supersedes and replaces (i) the
letter from the Company to Executive dated October 6, 2003 offering employment as Senior Vice
President, Global Compliance and Business Practices and (ii) the change of control Employment
Agreement between the Company and the Executive dated as of November 1, 2003.

Definitions applicable to capitalized terms not defined where first mentioned below are set
forth in Section 7 of this Agreement.

1. Employment Period .

Executive joined the Company on November 1, 2003. Beginning on the Commencement Date until
the later of the fifth anniversary thereof and for successive one-year periods thereafter (the
 Employment Period ), the Company agrees to continue in its employ and the Executive hereby agrees
to remain in the employ of the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, provided, however, that either party may terminate the Employment Period by providing
the other party with written notice of such termination at least one-year prior to the fifth
anniversary (or a subsequent anniversary) of the Commencement Date on which such termination is to
be effective. Subject to the Company s obligation to provide severance benefits as may be specified
in this Agreement and except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, Executive and
the Company acknowledge that this employment relationship may be terminated at any time and for any
or no cause or reason, at the option of either the Company or Executive.

2. Duties and Scope of Employment .

(a)  Position . During the Employment Period, the Company shall continue to employ
Executive as Senior Vice President, Global Compliance and Business Practices of the Company or in
such other substantially equivalent position requested by the Company s Chief Executive Officer
( CEO ) for which the Executive is qualified by education, training, and experience. Executive
shall continue to serve as an officer of the Company and be a member of the Executive Management
Team (the  EMT ). Further, so long as Executive is required on the Company s behalf to make (i)
Certifications pursuant to the Corporate Integrity Agreement between the Company and the Office of
Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, effective July 29, 2004, or
(ii) the CMS-required ASP certification under Medicare, Part B, Executive shall not be required to
report to anyone other than Mr. Hassan and shall, be provided with the opportunity to report to
and discuss related matters directly with the Board of Directors (or an appropriate sub-committee
thereof) at the regular meetings of the Board held during the time period covered by his required
certifications.

(b)  Duties . During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and
sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote reasonable attention
and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent
necessary to discharge the responsibilities and duties assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use
the Executive s reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities
and duties. During the Employment Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the
Executive to (i) serve on civic or charitable boards or committees, or with the written approval of
the CEO, on corporate boards or committees, (ii) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or
teach at educational institutions, and (iii) manage personal investments, so long as such
activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive s responsibilities
as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement.

3. Compensation .

During the Employment Period, the Company shall pay Executive the following as compensation
for services to the Company:

(a)  Base Salary . Executive s annualized base salary is currently $500,000 less
applicable deductions payable in accordance with the Company s normal payroll practices as in
effect from time to time for its senior executives. From time to time and at least annually,
Executive s base salary shall be subject to review and increase above Executive s then current base
salary pursuant to the Company s normal review policy for other similarly situated senior
executives of the Company. Executive s base salary shall not be subject to any decrease without
Executive s consent.

(b)  Operations Management Team Incentive Plan . During the Employment Period,
Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Company s Operations Management Team 
 Incentive Plan or any successor or replacement plan (the  Incentive Plan ) at a level
determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or its delegate (the
 Compensation Committee ) to be appropriate based on Executive s position, job performance and
Company policy. Executive s current target annual incentive under the Incentive Plan is 55% of
Executive s annual base salary. Executive s target annual incentive as a percentage of base salary
shall not be subject to any decrease without Executive s consent. Payment of incentive
compensation, if the performance criteria determined by the Compensation Committee are met, will be
made by March 15 of the year following the relevant Incentive Plan year, unless Executive elects to
defer payment pursuant to an applicable deferred compensation plan of the Company.

(c)  Long Term Incentive Plans . Executive is, and shall remain, a participant at the
levels determined by the Compensation Committee, in the (i) Schering-Plough Corporation Cash Long
Term Incentive Plan and the Schering-Plough Corporation Long-Term Performance Share Unit Incentive
Plan for the performance period beginning January 1, 2004 and ending December 31, 2006, and (ii)
Schering-Plough Corporation Transformational Performance Contingent Shares Program for the
performance period beginning January 1, 2004 and ending December 31, 2008. Executive shall
participate in successor or replacement plans at a level determined by the Compensation Committee.

-2- 

(d)  Incentive Equity Awards . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be
eligible to participate in the Company s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and any successor or replacement
plan, in accordance with the terms of the Stock Plan and any applicable grants (except as provided
herein), at a level determined by the Compensation Committee.

4. Enhanced Benefits and Perquisites .

(a)  General Benefits . During the Employment Period, Executive shall, to the extent
eligible, be entitled to participate in all employee welfare and retirement benefit plans and
programs provided by the Company to its senior executives in accordance with the terms of those
plans or programs as they may be modified from time to time. Executive shall be entitled to
post-retirement welfare benefits on the same terms as such benefits are made available by the
Company to its senior executives at the time of Executive s retirement. If, however, Executive s
participation in any such plan or program could result in adverse or unintended tax consequences to
any participant in such plan or program, the Company shall be entitled to pay to Executive the cost
of equivalent benefits outside such plan or program or provide Executive with substantially
equivalent benefits through a separate program without regard to the tax treatment applicable to
such payment or separate program in lieu of permitting the Executive to participate in such
program.

(b)  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan . Executive shall participate in the
Company s SERP.

(c)  Executive Life Insurance . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be
eligible for Executive Life Insurance coverage with a face amount of $1,750,000 in accordance with
the terms of the Company s Executive Life Insurance program.

(d)  Vacation . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to four weeks
paid vacation per annum, subject to adjustment in accordance with the Company s normal vacation
policies applicable to senior executives.

(e)  Relocation Benefits . Executive acknowledges that the Company may, at any time
during the Employment Period, relocate his place of employment to such location as may at that time
constitute the Company s principal offices. Executive shall be entitled to relocation benefits
pursuant to the Company s relocation benefit program.

(f)  Expenses . Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all
reasonable expenses incurred by Executive during the Employment Period for business purposes in
accordance with the policies, practices, and procedures of the Company and its Affiliated Companies
provided generally to other peer executives of the Company and its Affiliated Companies.

(g)  Fringe Benefits . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to
fringe benefits as in effect generally with respect to senior executives of the Company and its
Affiliated Companies. As of the date of this Agreement, these fringe benefits include tax and
financial planning services. Executive shall be entitled to prompt reimbursement (in no event to
be made later than two and one half months after the year in which the costs were incurred) for

-3- 

(i) financial planning services in an amount up to $8,000 in the first year of utilization and
up to $5,000 annually thereafter as needed, and (ii) tax preparation in an amount up to $2,500
annually. Executive shall first submit invoices for such services to the Company for payment and
seek reimbursement if unpaid. To the extent required by applicable law, such fringe benefits shall
result in imputed income which shall be subject to withholding from the Executive s wages in the
amount and manner prescribed by such law.

(h)  Office and Support Staff . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be
entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to
personal secretarial and other assistance on the same or similar terms as those provided generally
to senior executives of the Company and its Affiliated Companies.

(i)  Directors and Officers Insurance . The Company will not diminish the amount or
change the type of Directors and Officers Liability insurance coverage applicable to Executive (as
an executive during the Employment Period and as a former executive thereafter), as in effect on
the date of this Agreement, without his advance written consent.

5. Cause, Voluntary, Involuntary and Good Reason Terminations. 

(a)  Death, Disability, Cause and Voluntary Terminations without Good Reason . If,
during the Employment Period, Executive s employment is terminated due to Executive s death or
Disability, by the Executive without Good Reason or by the Company for Cause, the Company shall
have no obligation to the Executive other than the obligation to promptly pay to the Executive his
unpaid accrued base salary through the Termination Date and to pay or provide, promptly when due,
any Other Benefits, as well as payments or benefits required by applicable law.

(b)  Involuntary and Good Reason Terminations . If, during the Employment Period,
Executive s employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause, Disability or by
non-renewal of the Employment Period pursuant to Section 1, or if the Executive terminates
employment for Good Reason, the Company shall provide the Executive with the Other Benefits
promptly when due. In addition, provided that the Executive signs a Satisfactory Release within 35
days following the Termination Date and the Executive does not revoke it within 7 days after the
date he executes such Release, then Executive shall be entitled to:

(i) payment, within 30 days following the effective date of the Satisfactory Release, of a
severance benefit equal to the product of two multiplied by the sum of the Executive s current base
salary plus the highest target incentive opportunity under the Incentive Plan for any of the past
three years (each as in effect immediately prior to the Executive s Termination Date but without
regard for any reduction that constituted the grounds, or part of the grounds, for Executive s Good
Reason termination);

(ii) during the 2-year period following Executive s employment termination, continue to
participate in the Company s health and welfare programs applicable to, and (to the extent
permissible under applicable law) on the same terms as, other senior executives of the Company at
the time of the termination of the Executive s employment; provided, however that such benefits
shall cease on the date that Executive becomes eligible for similar benefits from a

-4- 

new employer and Executive shall notify the Company in writing of such benefits eligibility within
30 days following the effective date of Executive s benefits eligibility from the new employer; and
provided further, that if Executive s participation in any such program of the Company could result
in adverse or unintended tax consequences to any participant in such program (including the
Executive), the Company shall be entitled to provide Executive with substantially equivalent
benefits through a separate program (including the provision of such benefits through the purchase
of insurance) without regard to the tax treatment applicable to such separate program in lieu of
permitting the Executive to participate in such program;

(iii) payment, within 30 days following the effective date of the Satisfactory Release, of the
Enhanced SERP Benefit; and

(iv) credit for two additional years of service and age for purposes of determining
eligibility for coverage and rate of contribution under the Company s retiree medical plan or any
replacement or successor plan.

For purposes of this provision,  Satisfactory Release  shall mean a release of claims in a form
reasonably prescribed by the Company that (1) releases, and forever discharges, all claims that
Executive has or may have against the Company and its Affiliated Companies and its and their
employees, directors and agents (other than claims relating to Other Benefits), and (2) becomes
irrevocable if not revoked by Executive within seven (7) days after he signs it; provided that the
form of release shall not contain any post-employment covenants, including those covenants to which
the Executive may be subject pursuant to Subsection 5(c) below or otherwise.

(c)  Non-competition and Non-solicitation . In the event of voluntary termination of
the Executive s employment during the Employment Period by the Executive without Good Reason (i)
the Executive shall not engage in Competition (as defined below) during the one-year period
immediately following Executive s termination of employment, and (ii) the Executive shall not
engage in Solicitation (as defined below) during the two-year period immediately following
Executive s termination of employment. For purposes of this Section 5, the term Competition shall
mean that Executive, without the written approval of the CEO, commences employment with, or
provides consulting services to, any pharmaceutical enterprise that is engaged in research,
development, and/or sales of human and/or pharmaceutical products (unless sales from pharmaceutical
products constitute less than 20% of total sales of the company conducting the enterprise and the
consolidated affiliates of that company); provided that service solely as a member of the Board of
Directors of a company whose annual sales are less than $100 million on a consolidated basis with
all affiliated companies shall not be considered Competition. Further, the term Competition
specifically excludes (i) companies whose primary purpose is to provide consulting and/or audit
services so long as those companies have revenues in excess of $100 million, and (ii) law firms
whose primary purpose is to provide legal services. For purposes of this Section 5, the term
Solicitation shall mean that without the written approval of the CEO or his delegate, the
Executive, directly or indirectly, solicits, encourages or participates in the solicitation or
hiring of, any person who is currently an employee of the Company or independent contractor doing
business with the Company or who was an employee of the Company at any time during the last three
(3) months of the Employment Period by any employer other than the Company for any position as an
employee, independent contractor, consultant or otherwise; provided that the Executive shall not be
considered to have engaged in

-5- 

Solicitation for purposes of this Section 5 if an employer other than the Company solicits or
hires, with no participation or involvement by the Executive, any current or former employee,
independent contractor or consultant of the Company who is not or was not employed in, or providing
direct services to, a business area of the Company for which Executive (immediately prior to the
termination of his employment) had no direct authority or responsibility; and provided further that
the term Solicitation shall not preclude Executive from giving references.

6. Change of Control. 

(a)  General . In the event of any Change of Control following the effective date of
this Agreement and during the Employment Period, Subsection 6(b) shall supersede Section 
Subsection 6(d) shall supersede Subsection 3(a); Subsection 6(e) shall supersede Subsections 3(b);
Subsections 6(f) through (i) shall supersede Section  and the other provisions of this Section 6
shall supplement the other provisions of Sections 3 and 4; in each case until the expiration of the
COC Employment Period triggered by such Change of Control. If the Executive s employment is not
terminated before the end of the applicable COC Employment Period, immediately following such COC
Employment Period, the provisions of this Section 6 shall cease to apply unless and until another
Change of Control occurs during the Employment Period and the provisions of Sections 2, 3(a), 3(b)
and 5 shall again apply if the Employment Period has not yet expired. Effective upon the
termination of Executive s employment for any reason during a COC Employment Period, any previous
restrictions imposed under this Agreement or any other agreement upon the Executive regarding
engaging in post-termination competitive activity against the Company or soliciting current or
former employees or independent contractors of the Company shall immediately cease to be
applicable.

For purposes of this Section 6, if (i) the Executive s employment with the Company is
terminated prior to a Change of Control, (ii) the Executive reasonably demonstrates that such
termination of employment either (A) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps
reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or a Section 409A Change in Control Event or
(B) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change of Control or a Section 409A
Change in Control Event and (iii) a Section 409A Change in Control Event is actually consummated,
then such termination shall be deemed to have occurred during a COC Employment Period.

(b)  Position and Duties . During a COC Employment Period, (i) the Executive s position
(including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties and
responsibilities shall be at least commensurate in all material respects with the most significant
of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding
the COC Employment Period; and (ii) the Executive s services shall be performed at the location
where the Executive was employed immediately preceding any such Change of Control or any office or
location less than 35 miles from such location and that is not in a different state than such
location. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any activities have been
conducted by the Executive during the three years immediately prior to a Change of Control, the
reinstatement or continued conduct of such activities (or the reinstatement or conduct of
activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to any related Change of Control shall
not thereafter be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive s responsibilities to
the Company and its subsidiaries.

-6- 

(c)  Incentive Compensation, Employee Benefits and Fringe Benefits . Except as
otherwise set forth in this Agreement, during a COC Employment Period, the Executive (and eligible
family members or dependents, as applicable) shall be entitled to participate in all incentive,
profit-sharing, stock option, stock award, savings and retirement, and health and welfare benefit
plans (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, employee life,
group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) practices, policies
and programs and to receive paid vacation, fringe benefits, and expense reimbursement, all as
applicable generally to other peer executives of the Company and its Affiliated Companies, but in
no event shall such plans, practices, policies, programs and benefits provide the Executive with
incentive opportunities (cash or equity), savings opportunities, retirement benefit opportunities,
health and welfare benefits, vacation pay, fringe benefits, and expense reimbursement, which are,
in each case, less favorable in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the
Company and its Affiliated Companies for the Executive under such plans, practices, policies and
programs as in effect at any time during the 120-day period immediately preceding the Change of
Control, or if more favorable to the Executive, those provided generally at any time thereafter to
other senior executives of the Company and its Affiliated Companies.

(d)  Annual Base Salary . During a COC Employment Period, the Executive shall receive,
in accordance with the Company s normal payroll practices in effect from time to time for its
senior executives, an Annual Base Salary which shall be reviewed no more than 12 months after the
last salary increase awarded to the Executive prior to the beginning of the COC Employment Period
and thereafter at least annually. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or
reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be
reduced after such an increase and the term Annual Base Salary as used in this Section 6 shall
refer to Annual Base Salary as so increased.

(e)  Annual Bonus . In addition to Annual Base Salary, for each fiscal year ending
during a COC Employment Period, Executive shall be awarded an annual bonus in cash at least equal
to the Executive s highest target incentive opportunity under the Incentive Plan for any of the
past three years (the  Annual Bonus ). Each such Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than the
15 th  day of the third month of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year for which
the Annual Bonus is awarded, unless the Executive shall have elected to defer the receipt of such
Annual Bonus in accordance with an applicable deferred compensation plan of the Company.

(f)  Death . The Executive s employment shall terminate automatically upon the
Executive s death during a COC Employment Period without further obligation to the Executive s
legal representative s under this Agreement other than for payment of any Unpaid Accrued
Obligations and any Other Benefits which shall be at least equal to the most favorable benefits
provided by the Company and Affiliated Companies to the estates and beneficiaries of senior
executives of the Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs, and policies
relating to death benefits and survivor benefits as in effect at any time during the 120-day period
immediately prior to the COC Employment Period, or if more favorable to the Executive s estate
and/or beneficiaries, as in effect on the date of the Executive s death with respect to other peer
executives of the Company and their beneficiaries. Unpaid Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the
Executive s estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in

-7- 

cash within 30 days of the Termination Date, and the Other Benefits shall be provided promptly
when due.

(g)  Disability . If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of the
Executive has occurred during a COC Employment Period, it may give the Executive Notice of
Termination. In such event, the Executive s employment with the Company shall terminate effective
on the Termination Date, provided that, within the 30 days after Executive s receipt of the Notice
of Termination, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive s
duties. In the event of Executive s termination of employment due to Disability, Unpaid Accrued
Obligations shall be paid in cash to the Executive within 30 days following the Termination Date,
and the Other Benefits shall be provided promptly when due.

(h)  Termination for Cause or Voluntary Termination without Good Reason . If the
Executive s employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or voluntarily by the Executive
without Good Reason during the COC Employment Period, the Employment Period shall terminate and the
Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay the
Executive (i) his unpaid Annual Base Salary through the Termination Date, and (ii) any unpaid Other
Benefits. In such case, all Unpaid Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump
sum in cash within 30 days following the Termination Date, and the Other Benefits shall be provided
promptly when due.

(i)  Termination for Good Reason or without Cause . If, during the COC Employment
Period, the Executive s employment shall be terminated by the Company other than for Cause or
Disability or by the Executive for Good Reason, the Company shall:

(1) within 30 days following the Executive s Termination Date, pay the Executive a single sum
cash amount equal to the sum of (i) the Unpaid Accrued Obligations; (ii) the product of three (or
the number of whole and partial years from the Executive s Termination Date until his
65 th  birthday, if less) multiplied by the sum of the Executive s Annual Base Salary,
plus the Executive s Annual Bonus, plus the greater of the Highest Profit Sharing Contribution or
the highest aggregate Company contribution to the Executive s account under the Company s
qualified and nonqualified defined contribution retirement plans for any of the three years
immediately preceding the Executive s Termination Date; and (iii) the Executive s Enhanced SERP
Benefit; and

(2) for the lesser of (x) three years after the Executive s Termination Date and (y) the
period through the Executive s 65 th  birthday, continue health and welfare benefits to
the Executive (and the Executive s family, if applicable) at least equal to those which would have
been provided in accordance with Subsection 6(c) hereof had the Executive not been terminated or,
if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to
other senior executives of the Company and its Affiliated Companies and their families; provided
that such benefits coverage shall be secondary to any health and welfare benefits coverage for
which the Executive becomes eligible under any plan or arrangement sponsored by a subsequent
employer of the Executive; and provided further, that if Executive s participation in any such
program could result in adverse or unintended tax consequences to any participant in such program
(including the Executive), the Company shall be entitled to provide Executive, with substantially
equivalent benefits through a separate program (including the provision of

-8- 

such benefits through the purchase of insurance) without regard to the tax treatment
applicable to such separate program in lieu of permitting the Executive to participate in such
program;

(3) to the extent not theretofore paid or provided, pay or provide to the Executive all Other
Benefits promptly when due;

(4) waive any and all  reduction factors  imposed as a result of Executive s age with respect
to the Executive s nonqualified supplemental or excess employee pension benefit plan if the
Executive is at least age 50 as of the Termination Date; and

(5) if the Executive is age 50 or greater as of the Termination Date, provide the Executive
with coverage under the terms of the Company s retiree medical plan (effective at the end of the
post-employment period of extended health coverage) without regard to years of service for
eligibility purposes but assuming the maximum Company-provided subsidy (if any) applies and
applying 3 additional years of service credit for purposes of rate of contribution under such plan
or any replacement or successor plan; provided, however that if the Executive is age 45 or older at
the end of the post-employment period of extended health coverage, provide the Executive, upon
reaching age 55 and upon reaching the end of the period of extended health coverage following
Executive s Termination Date pursuant to Subsection 6(i)(2) hereof, with eligibility for the
Company s retiree medical plan or any replacement or successor plan (including, without limitation,
any supplemental coverage applicable to executives) as if the Executive had, as of the Termination
Date, satisfied the age and service conditions for such plans and assuming the maximum
Company-provided subsidy (if any) applies.

7. Definitions. 

(a)   Affiliated Company   shall mean any corporation or other entity controlled by, controlling
or under common control with the Company.

(b)   Annual Base Salary   shall mean an annual base salary at least equal to 24 times the
highest semi-monthly base salary paid or payable, including (without limitation) any base salary
which has been earned but deferred, to Executive by the Company and its Affiliated Companies in
respect of any month in the 12-month period immediately preceding the month in which a Change of
Control occurs.

(c)   Annual Bonus   shall have the meaning set forth in Subsection 6(e) of this Agreement.

(d)   Cause   shall mean termination initiated by the Company (with advance approval by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors) or by the Executive incident to or connected (i)
Executive s conviction relating to charges that Executive engaged in misappropriation, theft,
embezzlement, kick-backs, or bribery whether in connection with Executive s employment with the
Company or otherwise, , or (ii) the Company s reasonable determination that Executive engaged in
other deliberate, gross or willful misconduct or dishonest acts or omissions (including, but not
limited to, commission of a felony) resulting in significant harm to the Company.

(e)   Change of Control   shall mean the happening of any of the following events:

-9- 

(1) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section
13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a
 Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d 3 promulgated under the Exchange
Act) of securities of the Company where such acquisition causes such Person to own 20% or more of
either (x) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company
Common Stock ) or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the
Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting
Securities  provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (1), the following
acquisitions shall not be deemed to result in a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly
from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit
plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by
the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies
with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (3) of this Section 7(e); and provided, further, that
if any Person s beneficial ownership of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities reaches or
exceeds 20% as a result of a transaction described in clause (A) or (B) above, and such Person
subsequently acquires beneficial ownership of additional voting securities of the Company, such
subsequent acquisition shall be treated as an acquisition that causes such Person to own 20% or
more of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities; or

(2) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board )
cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any
individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for
election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a
member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial
assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect
to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or
consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or

(3) consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or
similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or a sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets
or stock of another entity by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (each, a  Business
Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially
all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the
Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to
such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of,
respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the
then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the
case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without
limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or
substantially all of the Company s assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business
Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as
the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination
or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the

-10- 

Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly
or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the
corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed
prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of
directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the
Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the
Board, providing for such Business Combination; or

(4) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of
the Company.

(f)   COC Employment Period   shall mean the period from the date on which a Change of Control
occurs until the earlier of the third anniversary of such date or the Executive s 65 th 
birthday.

(g)   Confidential Information   shall mean information in any form whose unauthorized or
unintended publication or disclosure will adversely affect the interests of the Company. It
includes, but is not limited to, the following:

Third party information provided under a confidentiality agreement; 

Long-range strategic plans; 

Critical formulas and trade secrets; 

Merger and acquisition plans; 

Operational plans; 

Research   Information relating to Company sponsored research and development projects,
including a product s regulatory status; 

Technical   Product or process specifications, manufacturing processes, test results,
performance characteristics, special formulations, unique designs, unique software and
identity of vendors and suppliers of unique materials; 

Marketing   Customer lists, schedules of new product availability and delivery periods,
pending price changes, strategic plans, in-house marketing forecasts and other marketing
plans; 

Financial   Budgets, product costs and profit margins on specific products; and other
non-public financial audit and accounting information; 

Organization   Information regarding opening, closing, expanding, or modifying of
Company facilities until the time and date specifically authorized for public disclosure;
transfer of responsibilities or transfer of key employees until formal announcements;
policy manuals; telephone directories; organization charts; 

-11- 

Human Resources   Sensitive personal data pertaining to employees, such as salaries and
compensation, medical records, performance appraisals or reviews, personal history
statements and personnel files, letters of a personal and/or professional nature; 

Other information not generally known and relating to any phase of Company business
which provides an opportunity to obtain an advantage over competitors who do not have or
know the information. 

(h)   Disability   shall mean the absence of the Executive from the Executive s duties with the
Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive days as a result of incapacity due to mental or
physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the
Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive s legal representative.

(i)   Enhanced SERP Benefit   shall mean an amount equal to the excess of (i) the sum of (A) the
lump-sum actuarial equivalent (as of the date that the Enhanced SERP Benefit is paid to the
Executive or his beneficiaries (the  SERP Payout Date )) of the normal retirement benefit under the
Company s Retirement Plan (utilizing actuarial assumptions no less favorable to the Executive than
those in effect under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Executive s Termination Date)
and (B) the lump-sum actuarial equivalent of the normal retirement benefit under the SERP (as of
the SERP Payout Date and utilizing actuarial assumptions no less favorable to the Executive than
those in effect under the SERP immediately prior to the Executive s Termination Date) which the
Executive would have received if the Executive s employment had continued for two years (or three
years if the Date of Termination occurs during a COC Employment Period) after the Executive s
Termination Date or through age 65, if sooner, assuming for this purpose that all accrued benefits
were fully vested, and, if the Termination Date occurs during a COC Employment Period, assuming
that the Executive s compensation in each of the three years (or the shorter period to age 65, if
applicable) would have been that required by Subsections 6(d) and 6(e) of this Agreement, over (ii)
the lump-sum actuarial equivalent (as of the SERP Payout Date) of the Executive s actual normal
retirement benefit (paid or payable), if any, under the Retirement Plan and the SERP based on
actual age, service and compensation as of the Executive s Termination Date.

(j)   Good Reason   shall mean any of the events described in (1)-(5) below if the Company fails
to cure such events within 20 business days after receiving notice thereof from the Executive:

(1) the assignment to the Executive of any duties that are materially inconsistent with the
Executive s education, training and experience, or a significant diminution in the Executive s
authorities, responsibilities, status or title (as described in Section 2 or Subsection 6(b) of
this Agreement, as applicable), it being understood that (x) a change in the person to whom the
Executive reports (other than as described in (2) or (3) below) or (y) modifications to
organizational responsibilities resulting in changes to Executive s functional areas of
responsibility that do not significantly diminish Executive s core role in the Company would not
constitute  Good Reason 

-12- 

(2) a change in the status of the person to whom the Executive reports from the CEO of a
publicly-traded company to the CEO of a non-publicly traded company; or

(3) for so long as Executive is required on the Company s behalf to make (i) Certifications
pursuant to the Corporate Integrity Agreement between the Company and the Office of Inspector
General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, effective July 29, 2004, or (ii) the
CMS-required ASP certification under Medicare, Part B, a change in the person holding the title of
CEO, and to whom the Executive reports, to a person other than Mr. Fred Hassan; or

(4) any significant reduction by the Company of the Executive s total compensation in the
aggregate, unless such reduction was part of a reduction approved by the Company s Board of
Directors (or a Committee thereof) for a group of senior executives in addition to the Executive;
or

(5) during a COC Employment Period, any failure by the Company to comply with any of the
provisions of Subsections 6(b) through 6(e) of this Agreement.

(k)   Highest Profit Sharing Contribution   shall mean the annual aggregate of the highest
contributions made under the Company s Profit Sharing Incentive Plan and the highest hypothetical
contributions made under the Company s Profit Sharing Benefits Equalization Plan or any successor
or replacement plans thereto, for any of the three calendar years preceding the Executive s
Termination Date.

(l)   Invention(s)   shall mean any design, discovery, idea, process, product, device,
substance, compound, biological or chemical entity, machine or article or process of manufacture,
or any improvement of the foregoing, whether patentable or not, which is:

(1) Conceived, discovered or made by a Company employee either solely or jointly with others
either (A) during the term of his/her employment or (B) after the term of his/her employment, based
on Confidential Information; and

(2) Related to the Company s actual or anticipated business or activities, or is related to
the Company s actual or anticipated research and development efforts, or is suggested by, or
results from any tasks assigned to any employee and/or temporary worker or from work performed by
an employee for, or on behalf of, the Company, whether or not such conception, discovery or making
occurs during regularly scheduled work hours or results from the use of the Company s facilities,
materials, resources or personnel.

(m)   Notice of Termination   shall mean a written notice which (i) indicates the specific
termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in
reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the
Executive s employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Termination Date (as
defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date
(which date shall be not more than thirty days after the giving of such notice). The failure by
the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance
which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Executive
or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company,

-13- 

respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive s or the
Company s rights hereunder.

(n)   Other Benefits   shall mean all amounts or benefits other than Unpaid Accrued Obligations
required to be paid or provided or which the Executive (or his beneficiaries) is eligible to
receive under the applicable terms of any plan, program, agreement, corporate governance document,
or other arrangement of the Company or any Affiliated Company.

(0)   Retirement Plan   shall mean the Company s defined benefit retirement plan.

(p)   Section 409A Change in Control Event   shall mean the happening of any of the following
events:

(1) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section
13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning
of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company where such
acquisition causes such Person to own more than 50% of either ( x ) the then outstanding Shares of
the Company (the  Outstanding Shares ) or ( y ) the combined voting power of the then outstanding
voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the
 Outstanding Voting Securities  provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (1) the
following acquisitions will not constitute a Section 409A Change in Control Event: (A) any
acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by
any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any
corporation controlled by the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a
transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (3) below; and provided,
further, that if any Person s beneficial ownership of the Outstanding Shares or Outstanding Voting
Securities reaches or exceeds 50% as a result of a prior transaction, and such Person subsequently
acquires beneficial ownership of additional Shares or additional voting securities of the Company,
such subsequent acquisition will not be treated as an acquisition that causes such Person to own
more than 50% of the Outstanding Shares or Outstanding Voting Securities;

(2) during any 12-month period, individuals who, as of the first day of such period,
constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority
of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the
beginning of such 12-month period whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s
shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the
Incumbent Board will be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board;

(3) consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or
similar corporate transaction involving the Company, or the acquisition of assets or stock of
another entity by the Company (each a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such
Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were
beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Shares or Outstanding Voting Securities
immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than
50% of, respectfully, the then outstanding shares of the common stock and

-14- 

the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally
in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business
Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction
owns the Company or substantially all of the Company s assets either directly or through one or
more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to
such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Shares and Outstanding Voting Securities, as the case
may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such
Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectfully,
the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business
Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such
corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and
(C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from
such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board on the later of (x) the time of the
execution of the initial agreement, (y) the action of the Board providing for such Business
Combination or (z) the beginning of the 12-month period ending on the effective date of the
Business Combination;

(4) any one Person acquires (or has acquired during any 12-month period ending on the date of
the most recent acquisition by such Person) assets of the Company having a fair market value equal
to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company
immediately prior to such sale, other than an acquisition by (A) a Person who was a shareholder of
the Company immediately before the asset acquisition in exchange for or with respect to such
Person s Shares, (B) an entity whose total or voting power immediately after the transfer is at
least 50% owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company, (C) a person or group that, immediately
after the transfer, directly or indirectly owns at least 50% of the total value or voting power of
the outstanding stock of the Company or (D) an entity whose total value or voting power
immediately after the transfer is at least 50% owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described
in clause (C) above; or

(5) the complete liquidation of the Company.

The definition of Section 409A Change in Control Event for purposes of this Agreement is
intended to conform to the description of  Change in Control Events  in Treas. Prop. Reg.
1.409A-3(g)(5), or in subsequent IRS guidance describing what constitutes a Change in Control Event
for purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ).
Accordingly, no Section 409A Change in Control Event will be deemed to occur with respect to a
transaction or event described in paragraphs (1) through (5) above unless the transaction or event
would constitute a  Change in Control Event  as described in Treas. Prop. Reg. 1.409A-3(g)(5), or
in subsequent IRS guidance under Code section 409A.

(q)   SERP   shall mean any excess or supplemental retirement plans in which the Executive
participates.

(r)   Termination Date   shall mean (i) if the Executive s employment is terminated by the
Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, the date of the other party s receipt of
the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein, (ii) if the Executive s employment
is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by the

-15- 

Executive other than for Good Reason, the Termination Date shall be the date on which the
Notice of Termination is delivered or any later date as may be mutually agreed upon; (iii) if the
Executive s employment is terminated by reason of death, the Termination Date shall be the date of
the death; and (iv) if the Executive s employment is terminated by reason of Disability of the
Executive, the Termination Date shall be the 30 th  day after Executive s receipt of the
Notice of Termination from the Company.

(s)   Unpaid Accrued Obligations   shall mean unpaid Annual Base Salary accrued through the
termination date, any unpaid accrued vacation pay, and the Executive s Annual Bonus multiplied by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the current fiscal year through the
Termination Date, and the denominator of which is 365.

8. Certain Additional Payments .

(a) Except as set forth below, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or
distribution in the nature of compensation (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code )) made or provided to or for the benefit of
the Executive, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement or otherwise (each, a  Payment ) would be subject to the excise tax imposed by
Section 4999 of the Code (together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such
excise tax, the  Excise Tax ), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional
payment ( Gross-Up Payment ), at or before the time the Excise Tax is due (whether by withholding
or otherwise) in an amount such that after payment by the Executive of all taxes (and any interest
or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes
(and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the
Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax
imposed upon the Payments. The Company s obligation to make Gross-Up Payments under this Section 8
shall not be conditioned upon the Executive s termination of employment.

(b) Subject to the provisions of Subsection 8(c), all determinations required to be made under
this Section 8, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such
Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be
made by such nationally recognized certified public accounting firm that the Company may designate
(the  Accounting Firm ). The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations both
to the Company and the Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of notice from the
Executive that there has been a Payment or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In
the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity
or group effecting a Change of Control, the Executive may appoint another nationally recognized
accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be
referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall
be borne solely by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 8,
shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within ten days of the receipt of the Accounting
Firm s determination. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company
and the Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code
at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that
Gross-Up Payments

-16- 

which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ( Underpayment ), consistent
with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event the Company exhausts or does not
seek to pursue its remedies pursuant to Subsection 8(c) and the Executive thereafter is required to
make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the
Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to
or for the benefit of the Executive.

(c) The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue
Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of a Gross-Up Payment. Such
notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten business days after the
Executive is informed in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such
claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such
claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which the Executive gives
such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes
with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the
expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:

(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company
relating to such claim,

(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company
shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without
limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney
reasonably selected by the Company,

(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest
such claim, and

(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such
claim;

provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including
additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest, and shall indemnify
and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax, income tax or other tax
(including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such representation
and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this
Subsection 8(c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest
and, at its sole discretion, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings,
hearings and conferences with the applicable taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at
its sole discretion, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or
contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to
a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one
or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that, if the Company
directs the Executive to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall pay the amount of
such payment to the Executive, on an interest-free basis, and shall indemnify and hold the
Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or

-17- 

income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to such
payment or with respect to any imputed income in connection with such payment; and further
provided, that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the
taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is
limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company s control of the contest shall
be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the
Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the
Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.

(d) If, after the receipt by the Executive of a Gross-Up Payment or an amount paid by the
Company pursuant to Subsection 8(c), the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with
respect to the Excise Tax to which such Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to such claim, the
Executive shall (subject to the Company s complying with the requirements of Subsection 8(c), if
applicable) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid
or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Executive of an
amount paid by the Company pursuant to Subsection 8(c), a determination is made that the Executive
shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the
Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30
days after such determination, then such payment shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be
repaid and the amount of such payment shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up
Payment required to be paid.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company may, in its sole
discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing
authority, for the benefit of the Executive, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and the
Executive hereby consents to such withholding.

9.  Code Section 409A Provisions .

Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or elsewhere to the contrary, if, based on Internal
Revenue Service guidance available as of the date the payment or provision of any amount or other
benefit is specified to be made under this Agreement or elsewhere, the Company reasonably
determines that the payment or provision of such amount or other benefit at such specified time may
potentially subject the Executive to  additional tax  under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code
(together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to, or in connection with, such tax,
a  409A Tax ) with respect to the payment of such amount or the provision of such benefit, and if
payment or provision thereof at a later date would likely avoid any such 409A Tax, then the payment
or provision thereof shall be postponed to the earliest business day on which the Company
reasonably determines such amount or benefit can be paid or provided without incurring any such
409A Tax, but in no event later than the first business day after the six-month anniversary of the
Termination Date (the  Delayed Payment Date ). In addition, if the Company reasonably determines
that such 409A Tax with respect to the provision of a benefit can likely be avoided by replacing
the benefit with the payment of an amount in cash equal to the cost of a substantially equivalent
benefit then, in lieu providing such benefit, the Company may make such cash payment, subject to
the preceding sentence. In the event a benefit is to be provided during the period commencing on
the Executive s separation from service and

-18- 

ending on the Delayed Payment Date and the provision of such benefit during that period would
be treated as a payment of nonqualified deferred compensation in violation of Section
409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, then continuation of such benefit during that period shall be
conditioned on payment by the Executive of the full premium or other cost of coverage and as of the
Delayed Payment Date the Company shall reimburse the Executive for the premiums or other cost of
coverage paid by the Executive, which but for this paragraph would have been paid by the Company.
Any such reimbursement shall include interest at the rate set out in the last sentence of this
paragraph. The Company and the Executive may agree to take other actions to avoid the imposition
of 409A Tax at such time and in such manner as permitted under Section 409A. In the event that this
Section 9 requires a delay of any payment, such payment shall be accumulated and paid in a single
lump sum on the Delayed Payment Date together with interest for the period of delay, compounded
monthly, equal to the prime or base lending rate then used by CitiBank, N.A., in New York City and
in effect as of the date the payment would otherwise have been provided.

10. Directorships, Other Offices .

In the event of termination of employment, Executive shall immediately, unless otherwise
requested by the Company s Board of Directors, resign from all directorships, trusteeships, other
offices and employment held at that time with the Company or any of its Affiliated Companies.

11. Confidentiality and Inventions .

The Company s most valuable assets include its Confidential Information and Inventions (which
are defined in Section 7). As a condition of employment, and in exchange for payment of the
Executive s salary, wages, and other compensation, the Executive (including the Executive s heirs,
executors, administrators and assigns) and the Company agree that:

(a)  Obligation to Others . The Executive has no obligation to any former employer or
third party which is inconsistent with this Agreement or which restricts the Executive s activities
with the Company in any way. Also, the Executive shall not at any time disclose to the Company or
cause the Company to use any confidential information belonging to others, including the
Executive s former employers.

(b)  Obligations to Company During Employment .

(1)  Company s Confidential Information  .  Unauthorized disclosure of the Company s
Confidential Information, either to outsiders, including temporary workers or to co-employees who
do not have a legitimate need to know of it, could irreparably harm the Company and subject it to
significant competitive disadvantage. To protect the Company s Confidential Information, the
Executive will not:

(A) 
       
     disclose it to any co-worker, unless he/she has a business need to know of it; 

(B) 
       
     disclose it to any non-employee for any reason; and 

-19- 

(C) 
       
     use it for the Executive s own benefit or profit. 

This restriction shall not apply to Confidential Information that:

(A) 
       
     a Company officer authorizes the Executive, in writing, to release; 

(B) 
       
     is or becomes public knowledge through no fault of the Executive; 

(C) 
       
     is made lawfully available to the Executive by an independent third party
(provided there is no agreement between the Company and that third party which
obligates the Company s employees to keep it in confidence); 

(D) 
       
     the Executive lawfully already knew of when the Executive received it from the
Company and the Executive can demonstrate such prior knowledge; or 

(E) 
       
     the Executive is required by law, regulation, rule, act or order of any
governmental authority or agency to disclose, provided however, that the Executive
gives the Company sufficient advance written notice to permit it to take appropriate
lawful recourse to protect its interests. 

(2)  Confidential Information of Third Parties.  On occasion, a third party may share its
confidential information with the Company for their mutual benefit (e.g., in connection with a
licensing arrangement or potential merger or acquisition). Should such information be entrusted to
the Executive, the Executive shall not disclose it, either to co-workers (unless they have a
business need to know of it) or to outsiders.

(3)  Ownership of Inventions, Patents, Trademarks, Trade Secrets, and Tangible Work Product. 
Since the Company is paying a salary, wages and other compensation to the Executive, the Company
owns all of the rights to the inventions and work product that the Executive creates or conceives
during the Employment Period. To ensure that the Company s rights to its property are protected,
the Executive shall promptly disclose to the Company and keep adequate records on any invention
that the Executive conceives, discovers or makes during the Employment Period. Without further
payment from or charge to the Company, the Executive agrees that the following, if created or
conceived during the Employment Period, shall be the Company s exclusive property and the Executive
shall assign to the Company all of the following:

(A) 
       
     any Invention conceived, discovered or made by the Executive; 

(B) 
       
     any patent, patent application or record relating to any Invention that the
Executive makes; 

(C) 
       
     any trade secrets developed by or disclosed to the Executive during the course
of the Executive s employment; and 

(D) 
       
     any tangible work product prepared by the Executive in the course and scope of
the Executive s employment, including but not limited to, any copyrightable subject
matter, research, research and/or business data. 

-20- 

(4)  Ownership of Copyrights  .  All works made for hire shall vest in the Company. All other
works, whether copyrightable or not, that the Executive creates in the course of the Executive s
employment, are deemed, upon their creation, to be assigned to the Company. This includes, but is
not limited to, all rights in and to the copyright throughout the world, all of its renewals and
extensions, the right to make and distribute copies of it, the right to translate it, and the right
to all derivative works from it. The Executive will execute all documents which are necessary or
desirable to record any assignment of copyright or other transfer of ownership in any work that the
Executive creates in the course of the Executive s employment, without further charge to the
Company.

(5)  Obtaining and Enforcement of Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights.  At the Company s
request, and without charge, the Executive shall execute any patent applications, assignments, or
other instruments which the Company considers necessary to apply for and obtain Letters Patent in
the United States and any foreign country and take all necessary action to protect the Company s
interest in them. The Executive shall execute any documents or instruments which the Company
considers necessary to vest title in the Company to any invention, patents, patent applications or
records relating to any invention and/or tangible work product.

(6)  Removal of Company Property.  The Executive shall not remove any of the Company s
property from its premises, unless the Executive needs it to perform the Executive s duties for the
Company or the Executive is specifically authorized to do so.

(c)  Obligations to Company When Your Employment Terminates .

(1)  Continuing Obligations  .  Each party s obligations described in Section 11(b) above
survive the termination of the Executive s employment.

(2)  Return of Company Property . The Executive will turn over all of the Company s property
to a designated Company representative prior to the Executive s separation. The Executive will not
retain any copies or reproductions of correspondence, memoranda, reports, notebooks, drawings,
data, photographs or other documents relating in any way to the Company s business.

12. Remedies; Injunction .

(a) Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in Sections 5 and 11 of
this Agreement are reasonable and necessary to protect and preserve the legitimate interests,
properties, goodwill and business of the Company and its Affiliated Companies, that the Company
would not have entered into this Agreement in the absence of such restrictions and that irreparable
injury will be suffered by the Company should Executive breach any of the provisions of those
sections. Executive represents and acknowledges that (i) Executive has been advised by the Company
to consult legal counsel with respect to this Agreement, and (ii) that Executive has had full
opportunity, prior to execution of this Agreement, to review thoroughly this Agreement with
counsel.

(b) Executive further acknowledges and agrees that a breach of any of the restrictions in
Sections 5 or 11 cannot be adequately compensated by monetary damages. Executive agrees

-21- 

that the Company will be entitled to a return of the cash consideration set forth in this
Agreement as being conditioned on the covenants contained in Sections 5 and 11 and that all
remaining stock options will be forfeited if Executive breaches the provisions of either of those
sections and that, in any event, the Company will be entitled to preliminary and permanent
injunctive relief, without the necessity of proving actual damages, as well as provable damages and
an equitable accounting of all earnings, profits and other benefits arising from any violation of
Sections 5 or 11, which rights will be cumulative and in addition to any other rights or remedies
to which the Company and/or its Affiliated Companies may be entitled. In the event that any of the
provisions of Sections 5 or 11 should ever be adjudicated to exceed the time, geographic, service,
or other limitations permitted by applicable law in any jurisdiction, it is the intention of the
parties that the provision will be amended to the extent of the maximum time, geographic, service,
or other limitations permitted by applicable law, that such amendment will apply only within the
jurisdiction of the court that made such adjudication and that the provision otherwise be enforced
to the maximum extent permitted by law.

(c) Executive irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees that any suit, action or other legal
proceeding arising out of Sections 5 or 10, including without limitation, any action commenced by
the Company and/or its Affiliated Companies for preliminary and permanent injunctive relief and
other equitable relief, may be brought in the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey, or if such court does not have jurisdiction or will not accept jurisdiction, in any court
of competent jurisdiction, (ii) consents to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any
such suit, action or proceeding, and (iii) waives any objection which Executive may have to the
laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court.

13. Intellectual Property .

To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, all intellectual property (including
patents, trademarks, and copyrights) which are made, developed or acquired by Executive in the
course of Executive s employment with the Company will be and remain the absolute property of the
Company, and Executive shall assist the Company in perfecting and defending its rights to such
intellectual property.

-22- 

14. Non-Exclusivity. 

Except as specifically expressed herein, nothing contained herein is intended to alter the
terms of any benefit plan or program. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, the Company or
its Affiliated Companies, as applicable, reserves the right to amend or terminate any of its or
their employee benefit plans at any time. In the event that an amendment to an employee benefit
plan adopted after the effective date of this Agreement specifically conflicts with an express
promise made in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to honor the promise through
comparable means outside the affected employee benefit plan without regard to any differences in
the tax impact to the Executive. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive s
continuing or future participation in any benefit plan provided by the Company or any of its
affiliates for which the Executive may qualify.

15. Full Settlement .

In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action
by way of mitigation of the amounts and benefits (other than as required pursuant to Section
5(b)(ii)) payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts
and benefits (other than as required pursuant to Section 5(b)(ii)) shall not be reduced whether or
not the Executive obtains other employment. In the event of a Change of Control, the Company
agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law and with respect to disputes that arise out of
events occurring during the applicable COC Employment Period, all legal fees and expenses up to
$25,000 which the Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any contest by the Company, the
Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this
Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the
Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement); provided, however that if
the Company ultimately prevails in a court of competent jurisdiction with regard to any such
contest, the Executive agrees to reimburse the Company for any and all legal fees and expenses paid
by the Company in accordance with this sentence. Such reimbursement shall become payable within 30
days after the expiration of the applicable period to appeal such outcome or, if an appeal is
taken, 30 days after final resolution of such appeal. Interest shall accrue on any delayed payment
at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code.

16. Governing Law .

This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
New Jersey.

17. Assignments; Transfers; Effect of Merger .

(a) No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or
transferred by the Company except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred
pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or
pursuant to the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, provided
that the assignee or transferee is the successor to all or substantially all of the assets of the
Company.

-23- 

(b) This Agreement will not be terminated by any merger, consolidation or transfer of assets
of the Company referred to above. In the event of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of
assets, the provisions of this Agreement will be binding upon the surviving or resulting
corporation or the person or entity to which such assets are transferred.

(c) The Company agrees that concurrently with any merger, consolidation or transfer of assets
referred to above, it will cause any successor or transferee unconditionally to assume, either
contractually or as a matter of law, all of the obligations of the Company hereunder.

(d) This Agreement will inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by or against, Executive
or Executive s personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs,
distributes, designees and legatees. None of Executive s rights or obligations under this
Agreement may be assigned or transferred by Executive other than Executive s rights to compensation
and benefits, which may be transferred only by will or operation of law. If Executive should die
while any amounts or benefits have been accrued by Executive but not yet paid as of the date of
Executive s death and which would be payable to Executive hereunder had Executive continued to
live, all such amounts and benefits unless otherwise provided herein will be paid or provided in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement to such person or persons appointed in writing by
Executive to receive such amounts or, if no such person is so appointed, to Executive s estate. In
the event of Executive s death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, references in this
Agreement to  Executive  shall be deemed to refer, as appropriate, to his heirs, beneficiaries,
estate, executor, or other legal representative.

18. Modification .

No provisions of this Agreement may be waived, modified or discharged unless such waiver,
modification or discharge is agreed to in writing signed by both Executive and the CEO. No waiver
by any party hereto at any time of any breach by any other party hereto of, or compliance with, any
condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a
waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent
time.

19. Notices .

All notices and other communications hereunder shall be writing and shall be given delivery to
the other party in person or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, addressed as follows:

If to the Executive :

Brent Saunders 
 Address 

-24- 

If to the Company:  
 
Schering-Plough Corporation 
2000 Galloping Hill Road 
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033 
Attention: Corporate Secretary

20. Entire Agreement .

This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject
matter contained herein and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements,
communications, representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by any officer, employee or
representative of any party hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There shall
be no contractual or similar restrictions on Executive s right to terminate his employment with the
Company, or on his post-employment activities, other than those expressly set forth in this
Agreement or in the terms of grant of any Schering-Plough equity compensation award held by the
Executive. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the respective rights and obligations
of the parties under this Agreement shall survive any termination of Executive s employment. This
Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of
which together shall be deemed to be one and the same document. Signatures delivered by facsimile
shall be effective for all purposes.

The undersigned hereby execute this Agreement as of the date first above written.

SCHERING PLOUGH CORPORATION 

Dated:                                               
     By   

C. Ron Cheeley  

Senior Vice President, 
Global Human Resources  

Dated:                                               

Brent Saunders  

-25- 

</EX-10.E.VIII>

<EX-10.J>
 4
 y50144exv10wj.htm
 EX-10.J: SEVERANCE BENEFIT PLAN

EX-10.J 

Exhibit 10.J

Schering-Plough Corporation  

Severance Benefit Plan  

Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008  

Preamble  

Schering-Plough Corporation ( Schering-Plough ) established the Schering-Plough Severance
Benefit Plan (the  Plan ) for the purpose of providing severance benefits to certain Employees
whose employment terminates on or after February 4, 2004. The Plan constitutes a formal employee
welfare benefit plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ). The Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective for all terminations occurring on or
after January 1, 2008, and supersedes any policy, plan or program theretofore maintained or in
effect under which severance benefit payments were made prior to January 1, 2008, by
Schering-Plough or any of its U.S. affiliated companies (or their predecessors) including any of
the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates, which were acquired by Schering-Plough effective November 19,
2007, as part of Schering-Plough s acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V.

The Plan, as set forth herein, is intended to alleviate in part or in full financial hardships
that may be experienced by certain of those Employees of Schering-Plough and its U.S. affiliated
companies, whose employment is terminated for certain reasons. In essence, benefits under the Plan
are intended to be supplemental unemployment benefits. The Plan is not intended to be included in
the definitions of  employee pension benefit plan  and  pension plan  set forth under Section 3(2)
of ERISA as a  severance pay arrangement  within the meaning of Section 3(2)(b)(i) of ERISA.
Rather, the Plan is intended to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a
 severance pay plan  within the meaning of regulations published by the Secretary of Labor at Title
29,  Code of Federal Regulations , Section 2510.3-2(b). Accordingly, the benefits paid by the Plan
are not deferred compensation and no employee shall have a vested right to such benefits.

The Plan shall continue until such time as it is amended or terminated in accordance with Article
6.

-i- 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page  

ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS

1 

ARTICLE 2 PARTICIPATION AND ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS

6 

ARTICLE 3 BENEFITS

8 

ARTICLE 4 METHOD OF SEVERANCE PAYMENTS

11 

ARTICLE 5 THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE

12 

ARTICLE 6 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

13 

ARTICLE 7 CLAIMS PROCEDURES

14 

ARTICLE 8 MISCELLANEOUS

15 

-ii- 

Article 1  
  Definitions  

When used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below.

1.01 
       
       Administrative Committee   means Schering-Plough Corporation s Employee Benefits
Committee or its designee. 

1.02 
       
       Base Pay   means the Employee s highest Weekly Base Rate of Pay during the 12-month
period prior to his or her termination. 

In the case of a Termination Due to Change of Control, Base Pay shall mean the sum of (a)
Employee s highest Weekly Base Rate of Pay during the 12-month period prior to his or her
termination or, if greater, the Employee s Weekly Base Rate of Pay in effect immediately
prior to such Change of Control, and (b) an amount equal to 1/52 of the Employee s annual
Target Incentive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating Base Pay in
order to determine a Participant s benefit under Column A of Exhibit B, Base Pay shall not
include any portion of the Employee s Target Incentive. 

1.03 
       
       Benefits   means the benefits that a Participant is eligible to receive pursuant to
Article 3 of the Plan. 

1.04 
       
       Change of Control   means a Change of Control (or Change in Control) as defined in
the Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan and any successor to such plan. 

1.05 
       
       Company   means Schering-Plough Corporation and its U.S. affiliated companies. 

1.06 
       
       Comparable Position   means employment with the Company or a successor employer in
which the individual s level of responsibilities would not constitute a Demotion. For
purposes of a Termination Due to Change of Control, a position shall not be a Comparable
Position if such position would require the Employee s principal business location to be
relocated more than 50 miles from the Employee s principal business location immediately prior
to the Change of Control. 

1.07 
       
       Corporate Integrity Agreement   means the five-year settlement agreement entered into
between the Company and the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, effective July 29, 2004. 

1.08 
       
       Demotion   means continued employment in a position that, as determined by the
Administrative Committee, constitutes a demotion under Schering-Plough s U.S. compensation
guidelines or a position that is one or more levels lower on a Company-recognized career
ladder, whether or not such employment is with the Company or a successor employer. 

1.09 
       
       Decline to Relocate   means a termination of a Participant s employment as a result
of his or her rejection of an offer of continued employment in the same position or a 

-1- 

Comparable Position that would require relocation of the Participant s principal business
location of more than 50 miles. 

1.10 
       
       Employee   means any regular full-time or regular part-time employee of the Company
who is employed in the United States and as to whom the terms and conditions of employment are
not covered by a collective bargaining agreement unless the collective bargaining agreement
specifically provides for coverage under the Plan. For this purpose, a regular part-time
employee shall be an employee who is regularly scheduled to work approximately 20 to 32 hours
per week. The term  Employee  shall not include (a) temporary employees (including college
coops, summer employees, high school coops, flexible workforce employees and any other such
temporary classifications); (b) any individual characterized by the Company as an  independent
contractor  or as a  contract worker;  (c) officers and other employees of the Company who are
parties to employment agreements; (d) officers or other employees of the Company who
participate in any severance plan of the Company that provides for the payment of severance
benefits in connection with a Change of Control of the Company and such individual qualifies
for the payment of such benefits; (e) any other individual who is not treated by the Company
as an employee for purposes of withholding federal income taxes, regardless of any contrary
Internal Revenue Service, governmental, or judicial determination relating to such employment
status or tax withholding; or (f) effective April 13, 2005, any employee of the Company who
(i) is not a U.S. citizen, (ii) is on temporary assignment in the United States, and (iii)
normally works outside the United States. In the event that an individual engaged in an
independent contractor or similar non-employee capacity is subsequently reclassified by the
Company, the Internal Revenue Service, or a court as an employee, such individual, for
purposes of the Plan, shall be deemed an Employee from the actual (and not effective) date of
such classification, unless expressly provided otherwise by the Company. 

An Employee also includes any employee of the Company otherwise satisfying the definition
for Employee above who works in the United States permanently or who normally works in the
United States and receives compensation from one of the Company s United States affiliates
or participating companies but is on temporary assignment outside of the United States. 

1.11 
       
       Employment Service Date   means the first day on which an individual became an
Employee. 

1.12 
       
       Employment Termination Date   means the date on which the employment of the Employee
by the Company is terminated. 

1.13 
       
       ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

1.14 
       
       Job Elimination   means a termination of a Participant s employment by the Company
due to job elimination, as determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion,
for purposes of the Plan only. 

-2- 

1.15 
       
       Job Restructuring   means a termination of a Participant s employment by the Company
due to a change in required competencies or qualifications for the Participant s job, as
determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion, for purposes of the Plan
only. 

1.16 
       
       Misconduct   means conduct which includes (a) falsification of company
records/misrepresentation; (b) theft; (c) acts or threats of violence; (d) refusal to carry
out assigned work; (e) unauthorized possession of alcohol or illegal drugs on company
premises; (f) being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs during work hours; (g)
willful intent to damage or destroy company property; (h) violation of the Standards of Global
Business Practices; (i) acts of discrimination/harassment; (j) conduct jeopardizing the
integrity of our products; (k) violation of Company rules, policies, and/or practices; or (l)
other conduct considered to be detrimental to the Company. 

1.17 
       
       Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates   means each of the affiliates of Organon
BioSciences N.V. that is both organized under the laws of the United States and employs
individuals who are paid through a U.S. source payroll system. 

1.18 
       
       Participant   means any Terminated Employee eligible for Benefits in accordance with
Article 2. 

1.19 
       
       Plan   means the Schering-Plough Severance Benefit Plan, as set forth herein, and as
the same may from time to time be amended. 

1.20 
       
       Plan Year   means the period commencing on each January 1 during which the Plan is in
effect and ending on the subsequent December 31. 

1.21 
       
       Severance Benefit Plan Committee   means the Committee that reviews initial benefit
claims under the Plan, which shall be comprised of no less than three members who shall
include the Company s Executive Director of Global Benefits, and Vice Presidents of Human
Resources representing the Company s major operating groups as the Company shall appoint. 

1.22 
       
       Target Incentive   means an Employee s target incentive for any given year under the
Company s annual incentive plan applicable to the Employee immediately preceding his or her
termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, in the event of a Termination Due to
Change of Control, Target Incentive shall mean the greater of the Target Incentive described
in the preceding sentence or the Target Incentive in effect immediately preceding the Change
of Control. 

1.23 
       
       Terminated Employee   means an Employee who has experienced an Employment Termination
Date. 

1.24 
       
       Termination Due to Change of Control   means a termination of a Participant s
employment by the Company within two years following a Change of Control that is involuntary
or that is as a result of his or her written rejection of an offer of continued employment
with the Company or an affiliate if such employment is not a Comparable Position. For
purposes of the preceding sentence, an involuntary termination shall be 

-3- 

deemed to occur as of the sixtieth (60th) day (or such longer period of time as the Company
shall establish not to exceed one year) immediately following the later of (a) the date on
which the Participant rejects in writing an offer of continued employment with the Company
or an affiliate for a position that is not a Comparable Position; or (b) the date of the
Change of Control. 

1.25 
       
       Termination Due to Non-Performance   means a termination of an Employee s employment
by the Company due to the Employee s failure to perform his or her job assignments in a
satisfactory manner, as determined by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion, for
purposes of the Plan only. In addition, a Termination Due to Non-Performance means a
termination of an Employee s employment by the Company due to the Employee being deemed an
 ineligible person  pursuant to the Corporate Integrity Agreement. 

1.26 
       
       Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring   means termination of an Employee s
employment by the Company due to a Decline to Relocate, a Job Elimination, a Job
Restructuring, or such other termination determined by the Administrative Committee. 

An Employee who has been absent from employment on a (a) short-term disability leave, or (b)
long-term disability leave or  medical no pay  leave lasting, in the aggregate, for a period
of less than two years shall be deemed to have suffered a Termination Due to Workforce
Restructuring if neither the Employee s latest position nor a Comparable Position exists for
the Employee once he or she is released to return to work. Nothing in this paragraph shall
prevent such an Employee from experiencing a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring as a
result of a Job Elimination, Job Restructuring, or other determination by the Administrative
Committee or its designee to the extent otherwise provided under this Plan. 

1.27 
       
       Voluntary Resignation   means a resignation that is a voluntary separation from
employment initiated by the Employee. 

1.28 
       
       Weekly Base Rate of Pay   means 

(a) 
       
     for a regular full-time Employee paid on a weekly payroll period basis, the
Employee s weekly rate of pay. 

(b) 
       
     for a regular full-time Employee paid on a bi-monthly payroll period basis, the
Employee s rate of pay for one payroll period divided by 2.166. 

(c) 
       
     for a regular part-time Employee paid on any hourly basis, the Employee s
highest base hourly rate during the last 12 months multiplied by the average number of
weekly hours worked during that 12-month period. 

1.29 
       
       Years of Service   means the total number of a Participant s full years of active
service with the Company subject to the following rules: 

(a) 
       
     For purposes of determining a Participant s number of Years of Service, a full
year of active service is any consecutive twelve-month period of service occurring 

-4- 

after the Participant s most recent break in service lasting one year or more. For
example, a Participant whose Employment Service Date is June 21, 2003 will be
credited with one Year of Service at the end of the business day June 20, 2004
provided that he or she has been continuously employed by the Company through that
date. 

(b) 
       
     For purposes of determining a Participant s number of Years of Service, such
Participant shall be treated as if his or her Employment Termination Date was December
31 of the calendar year in which his or her actual Employment Termination Date occurs. 

(c) 
       
     Any break in a Participant s active service for a period of less than one year
shall be disregarded for purposes of calculating a Participant s number of Years of
Service. For example, a Participant who was hired on June 1, 2000, was terminated on
February 3, 2002, rehired on December 18, 2002, and terminated again on March 3, 2003
shall have three Years of Service under the Plan. 

(d) 
       
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant s service earned prior to
incurring a break in service of less than 12 months and for which the Participant
received a severance benefit under this Plan or any other severance plan or arrangement
sponsored by the Company shall not be credited as Years of Service under the Plan. For
example, a Participant who was hired on January 1, 2000, terminated on June 1, 2001 and
received a severance benefit in connection with those years of service and was rehired
on January 1, 2007 shall, as of December 31, 2008, be credited with one Year of
Service. 

(e) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Participant s active service
with any of the Organon BioSciences U.S. Affiliates, which were acquired by
Schering-Plough effective November 19, 2007, as part of Schering-Plough s acquisition
of Organon BioSciences N.V., shall be taken into account when calculating the
Participant s number of Years of Service. 

-5- 

Article 2  
  Participation and Eligibility for Benefits  

(a) 
       
     Subject to Sections 2.01(b), 2.02, and 2.03, any Terminated Employee (other
than an employee who is employed in Puerto Rico) who has provided the Company with at
least 90 consecutive days of service and incurs a Termination Due to Workforce
Restructuring, a Termination Due to Non-Performance, or a Termination Due to Change of
Control shall become a Participant and shall be eligible for Benefits in accordance
with the provisions of this Plan. A Terminated Employee who is eligible to participate
in the Plan as a result of a Termination Due to Change of Control shall not otherwise
be deemed to have incurred a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring or a
Termination Due to Non-Performance. 

For purposes of determining whether a Participant who either (i) transferred employment
from NeoGenesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to the Company in connection with the asset
purchase agreement, dated February 14, 2005; (ii) became an Employee as a result of the
Company s collaborative agreement with Bayer HealthCare AG, dated October 1, 2004; or
(iii) became an employee of the Company in connection with the Company s acquisition of
Organon BioSciences N.V., effective November 19, 2007, has satisfied the 90 consecutive
days of service requirement set forth in this Section 2.01(a) above, his or her service
shall include service with NeoGenesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bayer HealthCare AG, or
Organon BioSciences N.V. or its affiliate, as appropriate. In no event shall such
individual be credited with such prior service for purposes of calculating his or her
severance benefits under the Plan. 

(b) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Terminated Employee shall
not be considered to have incurred a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring, a
Termination Due to Non-Performance, or a Termination Due to Change of Control for the
purposes of the Plan, if his or her employment is discontinued due to (i) a Voluntary
Resignation; (ii) voluntary resignation after reaching early or normal retirement date
under the Company s qualified pension plan; (iii) the divestiture of a business unit of
the Company if the Employee is offered a Comparable Position with the Company or a
successor employer; (iv) a rejection of an offer of a Comparable Position that is not a
Decline to Relocate; (v) a Decline to Relocate and such Terminated Employee was on
international assignment immediately preceding his or her termination; (vi) discharge
for Misconduct; (vii) being placed on layoff status; (viii) failure to transfer to
another location after initially accepting the transfer within the acceptance period of
the offer; (ix) a termination of employment during or immediately following a long-term
disability leave or a  medical no pay  leave lasting, in the aggregate, at least two
years; (x) death; or (xi) his or her refusal to cooperate with the screening process
pursuant to the Corporate Integrity Agreement. 

(c) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event shall any Employee
or former Employee who is receiving benefits under a Company-sponsored long-term 

-6- 

disability plan and/or who was on  medical no pay  leave of absence lasting, in the
aggregate, for a period of two consecutive years or more ending at or immediately
preceding the time of his or her termination of employment be eligible for Benefits
under this Plan. For clarification purposes, the determination of whether an Employee
or former Employee is ineligible for benefits as a result of the two-year leave of
absence restriction set forth in the preceding sentence shall be made by aggregating
any time periods in which the Employee or former Employee had received benefits under a
Company-sponsored long-term disability plan together with any consecutive time periods
that he or she was on  medical no pay  leave. 

2.02 
       
      Termination of Eligibility for Benefits . A Participant shall cease to participate in
the Plan, and all Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of the earliest of: 

(a) 
       
     Termination of the Plan prior to, or more than two years following, a Change of
Control; 

(b) 
       
     Inability of the Company to pay Benefits when due; 

(c) 
       
     Completion of payment to the Participant of the Benefits for which the
Participant is eligible; and 

(d) 
       
     The Administrative Committee s determination, in its sole discretion, of the
occurrence of the Employee s Misconduct, regardless of whether such determination
occurs before or after the Employee s Employment Termination Date, unless the
Administrative Committee determines in its sole discretion that Misconduct shall not
cause the cessation of Benefits in a particular case. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Administrative Committee must act in good faith in making such a determination at
any time within the two years following a Change of Control. 

2.03 
       
      Waiver and Release . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, unless
determined otherwise by the Administrative Committee in its sole discretion, no Benefits shall
be due or paid under the Plan to any Employee, unless the Employee executes (and does not
rescind) a written waiver and release, in a form prescribed by Schering-Plough, of any and all
claims against Schering-Plough, its affiliates, and all related parties arising out of the
Employee s employment or termination of employment. 

-7- 

Article 3  
  Benefits  

3.01 
       
      Amount of Severance Pay . The amount of severance pay payable to a Participant shall
be equal to the number of weeks of the Participant s Base Pay corresponding to his or her
Years of Service at his or her Employment Termination Date as set forth on that portion of
Exhibit A applicable to the reason for his or her termination from employment (determined by
the Company, in its sole discretion) as listed on Exhibit A hereto. 

In the event of a Termination Due to Change of Control, the amount of severance pay payable
to a Participant shall be equal to the number of weeks of the Participant s Base Pay
corresponding to his or her Years of Service at his or her Employment Termination Date as
set forth under Column B of Exhibit B applicable to his or her band as listed on Exhibit B
hereto. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Termination Due to Change of Control for a
Participant who was an E-grade employee of Schering-Plough (or its affiliates) as of
December 31, 2003, the amount of severance pay payable to the Participant shall be equal to
the greater of the benefits as listed under Columns A and B under Exhibit B hereto as
applicable to E-grade employees and to his or her Years of Service at his or her Employment
Termination Date. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Termination Due to Change of Control for a
Participant who was a weekly/hourly or a semi-monthly employee of Schering-Plough (or its
affiliates) as of December 31, 2003, the amount of severance pay payable to the Participant
shall be equal to the greater of the benefits as listed under Columns A and B under
Exhibit B hereto as applicable to his or her pay status and Years of Service at his or her
Employment Termination Date. 

Set forth on Exhibit C is a description of the manner in which eligible employees of certain
acquired companies and/or divisions will be deemed to mapped to the Schering-Plough
Compensation Bands for purposes of Exhibits A and B until such employees receive an actual
Compensation Band classification under the Schering system. 

3.02 
       
      Medical and Dental Benefits . A Participant covered under any of the Company s group
medical and dental plans prior to his or her Employment Termination Date shall be provided the
opportunity to elect to continue such coverage in accordance with the provisions of the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, Section 4980B of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 601, et seq., of ERISA ( COBRA ) and in accordance with
the Company s regular COBRA coverage payment practices. 

Participants who experience a Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring or Termination due
to Non-Performance shall be eligible to continue medical and dental benefits under COBRA
coverage at active employee rates, as the same may be changed from time to time, for the
greater of (a) three months or (b) the number of weeks of severance under Section 3.01 (to a
maximum of 12 months) following his or her Employment Termination Date. 

-8- 

Participants who experience a Termination Due to Change of Control shall be eligible (a) to
continue medical and dental benefits under COBRA coverage at active employee rates, as the
same may be changed from time to time, for the greater of (i) three months or (ii) the
number of weeks of severance pay under Section 3.01 (to a maximum of 18 months) following
his or her Employment Termination Date, and (b) for retiree medical benefits under the terms
of the retiree medical coverage generally applicable to the Company s retiree medical
eligible retirees provided that such Participants are at least age 50 at the time of their
termination of employment. 

3.03 
       
      Life Insurance . Participants who experience a Termination Due to Workforce
Restructuring or Termination Due to Non-Performance shall be eligible to receive continued
basic life insurance coverage for the greater of (a) three months or (b) the number of weeks
of severance under Section 3.01 (to a maximum of 12 months) following his or her Employment
Termination Date. 

Participants who experience a Termination Due to Change of Control shall be eligible to
receive continued basic life insurance coverage for the greater of (a) three months or
(b) the number of weeks of severance under Section 3.01 (to a maximum of 18 months)
following his or her Employment Termination Date. At the end of the coverage period, the
Participant may convert the life insurance coverage to a personal policy. 

3.04 
       
      Incentive Plan Payments . A Participant s entitlement to an incentive payment under
the annual incentive plan applicable to such Participant following a termination of employment
and the amount of such incentive payment, if any, shall be determined solely by reference to
the applicable terms of such annual incentive plan; provided, however, for purposes of
calculating a Participant s severance pay with respect to a Termination Due to Change of
Control, a Participant s Base Pay shall include a pro rata portion of his or her Target
Incentive as described under the definition of Base Pay in Section 1.02 of the Plan. 

3.05 
       
      Reduction for Other Payments; Offsets . The Benefits payable hereunder to any
Participant shall be reduced by any and all payments required to be made by the Company or its
affiliates under federal, state, and local law, under any employment agreement or special
severance arrangement or under any other separation policy, plan, or program. The Benefits
payable hereunder to any Participant shall also be reduced by (a) any benefits previously paid
to such Participant under this or any other separation or severance plan sponsored by the
Company with respect to any periods of service with respect to which Benefits are being paid
under this Plan, including any severance benefits paid prior to November 19, 2007 under a U.S.
severance plan, practice or arrangement of Organon Biosciences, N.V.; and (b) any and all
amounts that the Participant owes to the Company or an affiliate. 

3.06 
       
      Effect on Other Benefit Plans . Except as expressly provided herein, nothing under
the Plan shall constitute an extension of eligibility for, or the vesting or exercise periods
relating to, any employee benefit or equity compensation plan or an agreement with the
Company. 

-9- 

3.07 
       
      Different Severance Benefits . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Human Resources
representative having jurisdiction over the Participant may recommend, and the Senior Vice
President Global Human Resources, acting on behalf of the Company, will have complete
discretion to approve a different amount of severance pay and/or benefits, either higher or
lower (including no severance pay and/or benefits at all), than otherwise provided on
Exhibit A, provided that no such discretion shall be applicable to a Termination Due to Change
of Control. 

3.08 
       
      Change of Control Notification . Not later than six months following a Change of
Control, the Company shall notify all of its otherwise eligible Employees (who were Employees
as of the day immediately before the Change of Control) who have not been given notice of
termination of whether they will, until the second anniversary of such Change of Control,
continue in the same job, be offered a Comparable Position, or be involuntarily terminated. 

-10- 

Article 4  
  Method of Severance Payments  

4.01 
       
      Method of Payment . The severance pay to which a Participant is eligible, as
calculated pursuant to Article 3, shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this
Article 4. 

(a) 
       
     Severance payments payable under this Plan shall be made in a single sum cash
payment. 

(b) 
       
     Payment shall be made by mailing to the last address provided by the
Participant to the Company. Separate payment(s) shall be made to pay any earned and
unused vacation pay for the year during which the Employment Termination Date occurs.
In no event shall interest be credited on any amounts for which a Participant may
become eligible. 

(c) 
       
     In general, payments shall be made as promptly as practicable after the
participant s Employment Termination Date, the execution of the release required under
Section 2.03, and the expiration of the required release revocation period. 

-11- 

Article 5  
  The Administrative Committee  

5.01 
       
      Authority and Duties . The Administrative Committee shall have the full power,
authority, and discretion to construe, interpret, and administer the Plan, to correct
deficiencies therein, and to supply omissions. All decisions, actions, and interpretations of
the Administrative Committee shall be final, binding, and conclusive upon the parties, subject
only to determinations by the applicable claims fiduciary with respect to denied claims for
Benefits. Unless the Administrative Committee determines otherwise, the Human Resources
Managers of the Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Administrative
Committee in all respects set forth in this Section 5.01. 

5.02 
       
      Records . The Company shall supply to the Administrative Committee all records and
information necessary to the performance of the Administrative Committee s duties. 

5.03 
       
      Payment . The Company shall make payments of Benefits, in such amount as determined
by the Administrative Committee under Article 3, from its general assets to Participants in
accordance with the terms of the Plan, as directed by the Administrative Committee. 

-12- 

Article 6  
  Amendment and Termination  

6.01 
       
      Amendment and Termination . The Plan may be amended, suspended, discontinued, or
terminated at any time by the Board of Directors of Schering-Plough Corporation or its
designee, in whole or in part, for any reason, and without either the consent of or the prior
notification to any Participant. No such amendment shall give the Company the right to
recover any amount paid to a Participant prior to the date of such amendment. Any such
amendment, however, may cause the cessation and discontinuance of payments of Benefits to any
person or persons under the Plan. No such amendment made following a Change of Control may
reduce the benefits to which any Participant may become entitled in the two years following
such Change of Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment of any kind may be made
to the Plan for a period of two years following a Change of Control. 

-13- 

Article 7  
  Claims Procedures  

7.01 
       
      Claim . Each eligible terminated Employee may contest the administration of Benefits
by completing and filing with the Severance Benefit Plan Committee a written request for
review in the manner specified by the Administrative Committee. Each such application must be
filed within 60 days following the Employee s termination of employment and must be supported
by such information as the Severance Benefit Plan Committee deems relevant and appropriate. 

7.02 
       
      Appeals of Denied Claims for Benefits . In the event that any claim for benefits is
denied in whole or in part, the claimant whose claim has been so denied shall be notified of
such denial by the Severance Benefit Plan Committee within 90 days of receipt of the claim
(unless the Severance Benefit Plan Committee determines that special circumstances require an
extension of time of up to an additional 90 days for processing the claim). The notice
advising of the denial shall specify the reason(s) for denial, make specific reference to
relevant Plan provisions, describe any additional material or information necessary for the
claimant to perfect the claim (explaining why such material or information is needed), and
shall advise the claimant of the procedure for the appeal of such denial and a statement of
the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an
adverse benefit determination on appeal. All appeals shall be made by the following
procedure: 

(a) 
       
     A claimant whose claim has been denied shall file with the Administrative
Committee a notice of desire to appeal the denial. Such notice shall be filed within
60 days of notification by the Severance Benefits Plan Committee of the initial claim
denial, be made in writing, and set forth all of the facts upon which the appeal is
based. Appeals not timely filed shall be barred. 

(b) 
       
     The Administrative Committee shall consider the merits of the claimant s
written presentations, the merits of any facts or evidence in support of the denial of
benefits, and such other facts and circumstances as the Administrative Committee shall
deem relevant. 

(c) 
       
     The Administrative Committee shall render a determination upon the appealed
claim within 60 days of its receipt of such appeal (unless the Administrative Committee
determines that special circumstances require an extension of time of up to an
additional 60 days for processing the appeal). The determination shall specify the
reason(s) for the denial, make specific reference to relevant Plan provisions, and
contain a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section
502(a) of ERISA. 

(d) 
       
     The determination so rendered shall be binding upon all parties. 

No Employee may bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA until the
Employee has exhausted his or her rights under this Section 7.02. 

-14- 

Article 8  
  Miscellaneous  

8.01 
       
      Nonalienation of Benefits . None of the payments, benefits, or rights of any
Participant shall be subject to any claim of any creditor, and, in particular, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, all such payments, benefits and rights shall be free from attachment,
garnishment, trustee s process, or any other legal or equitable process available to any
creditor of such Participant. No Participant shall have the right to alienate, anticipate,
commute, plead, encumber, or assign any of the benefits or payments which he or she may expect
to receive, contingently or otherwise, under the Plan. 

8.02 
       
      No Contract of Employment . Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any
modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any
benefits shall be construed as giving any Participant or Employee, or any person whosoever,
the right to be retained in the service of the Company, and all Participants and other
Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been
adopted. 

8.03 
       
      Severability of Provisions . If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions
hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been
included. 

8.04 
       
      Heirs, Assigns, and Personal Representatives . The Plan shall be binding upon the
heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of the parties, including each
Participant, present and future. 

8.05 
       
      Headings and Captions . The headings and captions herein are provided for reference
and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in
the construction of the Plan. 

8.06 
       
      Number . Except where otherwise clearly indicated by context, the singular shall
include the plural, and vice-versa. 

8.07 
       
      Unfunded Plan . The Plan shall not be funded. No Participant shall have any right
to, or interest in, any assets of Schering-Plough that may be applied by Schering-Plough to
the payment of Benefits. 

8.08 
       
      Payments to Incompetent Persons, Etc . Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a
minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting
therefore shall be deemed
paid when paid to such person s guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to
provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge Schering-Plough,
the Administrative Committee and all other parties with respect thereto. 

8.09 
       
      Lost Payees . Benefits shall be deemed forfeited if the Administrative Committee is
unable to locate a Participant to whom Benefits are due. Such Benefits shall be reinstated 

-15- 

if application is made by the Participant for the forfeited Benefits within one year of the
Participant s Employment Termination Date and while the Plan is in operation. 

8.10 
       
      Controlling Law . The Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of
the State of New Jersey to the extent not superseded by federal law. 

-16- 

Schering-Plough Corporation  
 Severance Pay Plan  
 Exhibit A  

Termination Due to Workforce Restructuring 

(chart shows amount of severance pay in weeks of Base Pay)  

-17- 

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Severance Pay Plan   
  Exhibit A (Cont d)  

Termination Due to Non-Performance 

(chart shows amount of severance pay in weeks of Base Pay)  

-18- 

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Severance Pay Plan   
  Exhibit B  

Termination Due to Change of Control 

(   chart shows amount of severance pay in weeks of Base Pay   ) 

Column A  

Column B   

(If this column is applicable, multiply applicable number 

(If this column is applicable, multiply applicable number  

of weeks by Base Pay excluding Target Incentive) 

of weeks by Base Pay including 1/52 of Target Incentive)  

1  
       
     For this purpose, Base Pay excludes Target Incentive. 

-19- 

Schering-Plough Corporation   
  Severance Pay Plan   
  Exhibit C  

1. For purposes of Exhibits A and B, Participants who were former employees of the Organon
business group and became Employees of the Company in connection with the Company s November 19,
2007 acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V., and have not yet been classified under the
Schering-Plough Compensation Band system, shall be treated as having a Schering-Plough Compensation
Band designation according to the following schedule:

Organon Classification 
       
     Deemed Schering-Plough Band 

Non-Exempt Grades 54-60

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 8-13

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 14-SE

Bands D   O 

2. For purposes of Exhibits A and B, Participants who were former employees of the Diosynth
business group and became Employees of the Company in connection with the Company s November 19,
2007 acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V., and have not yet been classified under the
Schering-Plough Compensation Band system, shall be treated as having a Schering-Plough Compensation
Band designation according to the following schedule:

Diosynth RTP Classification 
       
     Deemed Schering-Plough Band 

Non-Exempt Grades 1-12

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 4-13

Bands A   C 

Exempt Grades 14-SE

Bands D   O 

3. For purposes of Exhibits A and B, Participants who were former employees of the Intervet
business group and became Employees of the Company in connection with the Company s November 19,
2007 acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V., and have not yet been classified under the
Schering-Plough Compensation Band system, shall be treated as having a Schering-Plough Compensation
Band designation according to the following schedule:

-20- 

</EX-10.J>

<EX-12>
 5
 y50144exv12.htm
 EX-12: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12 

Exhibit 12  

SCHERING-PLOUGH
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPUTATION
    OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  

(1)  

(Loss)/income before income taxes includes the purchase
    accounting impacts of the OBS acquisition, 

*  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, earnings were
    insufficient to cover fixed charges by $1.6 billion. 

**  

For the year ended December 31, 2004, earnings were
    insufficient to cover fixed charges by $332 million. 

***  

For the year ended December 31, 2003, earnings were
    insufficient to cover fixed charges by $70 million. 

Earnings  consist of income/(loss) before income
    taxes and equity income, plus fixed charges (other than
    capitalized interest and preference dividends), amortization of
    capitalized interest and distributed income of equity investee.
    Schering-Plough includes interest expense or interest income on
    unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
     Fixed charges  consist of interest expense,
    capitalized interest, preference dividends and one-third of
    rentals which Schering-Plough believes to be a reasonable
    estimate of an interest factor on leases. Total rent expense was
    $156 million, $118 million, $110 million,
    $100 million and $91 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

137

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 y50144exv21.htm
 EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21 

Exhibit 21  

Schering-Plough
    Corporation and Subsidiaries 

Subsidiaries
    of the Registrant As of 

December 31,
    2007  

State or Country of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Organization 

AESCA Pharma GmbH

Austria

Avondale Chemical Co. Ltd. 

Ireland

Beneficiadora e Industrializadora S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Dashtag

United Kingdom

Diosynth RTP Inc. 

U.S.A.

DNAX Research, Inc. 

California

Douglas Industries, Inc. 

Delaware

Essex Asia Limited

Hong Kong

Essex Chemie A.G. 

Switzerland

Essex Holdings GmbH

Germany

Essex Italia S.p.A. 

Italy

Essex Pharma GmbH

Germany

Fulford (India) Limited

India

Global Animal Management Inc. 

Delaware

Hydrochemie GmbH

Germany

Intervet Deutschland GmbH

Germany

Intervet do Brasil Veterinaria Ltda

Brazil

Intervet Holding B.V.

Netherlands

Intervet Inc. 

U.S.A

Intervet Innovation GmbH

Germany

Intervet International B.V. 

Netherlands

Intervet International GmbH

Germany

Intervet International Inc. 

U.S.A.

Intervet Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Intervet Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands

Intervet Pharma R D S.A. 

France

Intervet Productions SA

France

Intervet Productions Srl

Italy

Intervet UK Ltd

United Kingdom

Intervet UK Production Ltd

United Kingdom

Interveterinaria SA de CV

Mexico

Laboratorios Intervet S.A. 

Spain

MSP Technology (US) Company LLC

Delaware

Multilan AG

Switzerland

N.V. Organon

Netherlands

Nanjing Organon Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 

China

Nippon Organon K.K. 

Japan

Nobilon International B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon (Ireland) Ltd. 

Ireland

Organon AG

Switzerland

138

State or Country of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Organization 

Organon Agencies B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon Belgie NV

Belgium

Organon BioSciences International B.V.

Netherlands

Organon BioSciences Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon BioSciences N.V.

Netherlands

Organon BioSciences Reinsurance Limited

Ireland

Organon China B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon Development GmbH

Germany

Organon Europe B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon Holding B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon International B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon International Inc. 

U.S.A.

Organon Laboratories Ltd. 

United Kingdom

Organon Mexicana S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Organon Middle East Ltd. Cyprus

Cyprus

Organon Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon Participations B.V. 

Netherlands

Organon Polska Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland

Organon S.A. 

France

Organon USA Inc. 

U.S.A.

P.T. Schering-Plough 
    Indonesia

Indonesia

Sherico, Ltd. 

Switzerland

Schering Bermuda Ltd

Bermuda

Schering Corporation

New Jersey

Schering-Plough (China), Ltd. 

Bermuda

Schering-Plough (Ireland) Company

Ireland

Schering-Plough (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa

Schering-Plough (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore

Schering-Plough (Singapore) Research Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore

Schering-Plough A/S

Denmark

Schering-Plough AB

Sweden

Schering-Plough Animal Health Corporation

Delaware

Schering-Plough Animal Health Kabushiki Kaisha

Japan

Schering-Plough Animal Health Limited

Thailand

Schering-Plough B.V. 

Netherlands

Schering-Plough C.A. 

Venezuela

Schering-Plough Canada, Inc. 

Canada

Schering-Plough Central East A.G. 

Switzerland

Schering-Plough Compania Limitada

Chile

Schering-Plough Corporation

Philippines

Schering-Plough del Caribe, Inc. 

New Jersey

Schering-Plough del Ecuador, S.A. 

Ecuador

Schering-Plough del Peru S.A. 

Peru

Schering-Plough Farma Lda. 

Portugal

Schering-Plough HealthCare Products, Inc. 

Delaware

Schering-Plough Holdings (Ireland) Company

Ireland

139

State or Country of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Organization 

Schering-Plough Holdings France, SAS

France

Schering-Plough Holdings Limited

United Kingdom

Schering-Plough Home Again LLC

Delaware

Schering-Plough II   Veterinaria, Lda. 

Portugal

Schering-Plough International C.V. 

Netherlands

Schering-Plough International Finance Company B.V. 

Netherlands

Schering-Plough International Holdings B.V. 

Netherlands

Schering-Plough International, Inc. 

Delaware

Schering-Plough Investments Company GmbH

Switzerland

Schering-Plough Israel A.G. 

Switzerland

Schering-Plough Kabushiki Kaisha

Japan

Schering-Plough Korea

Korea

Schering-Plough Labo N.V. 

Belgium

Schering-Plough Legislative Resources, L.L.C. 

Delaware

Schering-Plough Limited

Taiwan

Schering-Plough Limited

Thailand

Schering-Plough Limited

United Kingdom

Schering-Plough Ltd. 

Switzerland

Schering-Plough N.V./S.A. 

Belgium

Schering-Plough Pharmaceutical Industrial and Commercial
    S.A. 

Greece

Schering-Plough Products Caribe, Inc. 

Cayman Islands

Schering-Plough Products LLC

Delaware

Schering-Plough Products, Inc. 

Delaware

Schering-Plough Produtos Farmacuticos Ltda. 

Brazil

Schering-Plough Pty. Limited

Australia

Schering-Plough S.A. 

Panama

Schering-Plough S.A. 

France

Schering-Plough S.A. 

Argentina

Schering-Plough S.A. 

Colombia

Schering-Plough S.A. 

Spain

Schering-Plough S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico

Schering-Plough S.p.A. 

Italy

Schering-Plough Saude Animal Industria E Comercio Ltda. 

Brazil

Schering-Plough Sdn. Bhd. 

Malaysia

Schering-Plough Technologies Pte. Ltd

Singapore

Schering-Plough Tibbi Urunler Ticaret, A.S. 

Turkey

Schering-Plough Veterinaire

France

Sentipharm A.G. 

Switzerland

Shanghai Schering-Plough Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. 

China

SOL Limited

Bermuda

SP Flight Operations, Inc. 

Delaware

SP Healthcare Products Corp. 

Delaware

S-P Holding GmbH

Austria

Summit Property Company LLC, The

Delaware

Theriak B.V. 

Netherlands

Vetrex B.V. 

Netherlands

140

State or Country of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Organization 

Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation

Delaware

Werthenstein Chemie A.G. 

Switzerland

White Laboratories, Inc. 

New Jersey

Zao Organon A/O

Russian Federation

In accordance with Item 601(b)(21) of
     Regulation S-K, 
    the Registrant has omitted the names of particular subsidiaries
    because the unnamed subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as
    a single subsidiary, would not have constituted a significant
    subsidiary as of December 31, 2007.

141

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 y50144exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
    Statements
     No. 2-83963, 
     No. 33-50606, 
     No. 333-30331, 
     No. 333-87077, 
     No. 333-91440, 
     No. 333-104714, 
     No. 333-105567, 
     No. 333-105568, 
     No. 333-112421, 
     No. 333-121089 
    and
     No. 333-134281 
    on
     Form S-8, 
    Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement
     No. 2-84723 
    on
     Form S-8, 
    Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement
     No. 333-105567 
    on
     Form S-8, 
    and Registration Statements
     No. 333-12909, 
     No. 333-30355, 
     No. 333-113222 
    and
     No. 333-145055 
    on
     Form S-3 
    of our reports dated February 29, 2008, relating to
    (i) the consolidated financial statements and financial
    statement schedule of Schering-Plough Corporation and
    subsidiaries (which report expressed an unqualified opinion and
    included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company s
    adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    ( SFAS ) No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based
    Payment , SFAS No. 158,  Employers 
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans , and Financial Accounting Standards Board
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes ) and (ii) the effectiveness of
    Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries  internal
    control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schering-Plough Corporation and subsidiaries for the year
    ended December 31, 2007.

/s/  DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 29, 2008

142

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 8
 y50144exv23w2.htm
 EX-23.2: INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S CONSENT

EX-23.2 

Exhibit 23.2  

INDEPENDENT
    AUDITORS  CONSENT  

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration
    Statements
     No. 2-83963, 
     No. 33-50606, 
     No. 333-30331, 
     No. 333-87077, 
     No. 333-91440, 
     No. 333-104714, 
     No. 333-105567, 
     No. 333-105568, 
     No. 333-112421, 
     No. 333-121089 
    and
     No. 333-134281 
    on
     Form S-8, 
    Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement
     No. 2-84723 
    on
     Form S-8, 
    Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement
     No. 333-105567 
    on
     Form S-8 
    and Registration Statements
     No. 333-12909, 
     No. 333-30355, 
     No. 333-113222 
    and
     No. 333-145055 
    on
     Form S-3, 
    of our report dated February 27, 2008, relating to the
    combined financial statements of the Merck/Schering-Plough
    Cholesterol Partnership, appearing in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schering-Plough Corporation for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

/s/  DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 27, 2008

143

</EX-23.2>

<EX-24>
 9
 y50144exv24.htm
 EX-24: POWER OF ATTORNEY

EX-24 

Exhibit 24  

POWER OF
    ATTORNEY  

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned
    officers
     and/or 
    directors of Schering-Plough Corporation, a New Jersey
    corporation (herein called the  Corporation ), does
    hereby constitute and appoint Robert Bertolini, Steven H.
    Koehler and Susan Ellen Wolf, or any of them, his or her true
    and lawful attorney or attorneys and agent or agents, to do any
    and all acts and things and to execute any and all instruments
    which said attorney or attorneys and agent or agents may deem
    necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules,
    regulations, requirements or requests of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission thereunder or in respect thereof in
    connection with the filing under said Act of the Annual Report
    of the Corporation on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 (herein called
    the
      Form 10-K  
    including specifically, but without limiting the generality of
    the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the respective
    names of the undersigned officers
     and/or 
    directors as indicated below to the
     Form 10-K 
     and/or  to
    any amendment of the
     Form 10-K 
    and each of the undersigned does hereby ratify and confirm all
    that said attorney or attorneys and agent or agents, or any of
    them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has subscribed these
    presents this 29th day of February, 2008.

/s/  FRED
    HASSAN

Fred
    Hassan, Chairman of the Board 
    and Chief Executive Officer

/s/  ROBERT
    J. BERTOLINI

Robert
    J. Bertolini, Executive Vice President 
    and Chief Financial Officer

/s/  STEVEN
    H. KOEHLER

Steven
    H. Koehler, Vice President and 
    Controller; Principal Accounting Officer

/s/  ANTONIO
    M. PEREZ

Antonio
    M. Perez, Director

/s/  HANS
    W. BECHERER

Hans
    W. Becherer, Director

/s/  PATRICIA
    F. RUSSO

Patricia
    F. Russo, Director

/s/  THOMAS
    J. COLLIGAN

Thomas
    J. Colligan, Director

/s/  JACK
    L. STAHL

Jack
    L. Stahl, Director

/s/  C.
    ROBERT KIDDER

C.
    Robert Kidder, Director

/s/  CRAIG
    B. THOMPSON, M.D.

Craig
    B. Thompson, M.D., Director

/s/  PHILIP
    LEDER, M.D.

Philip
    Leder, M.D., Director

/s/  KATHRYN
    C. TURNER

Kathryn
    C. Turner, Director

/s/  EUGENE
    R. MCGRATH

Eugene
    R. McGrath, Director

/s/  ROBERT
    F. W. VAN OORDT

Robert
    F. W. van Oordt, Director

/s/  CARL
    E. MUNDY, JR.

Carl
    E. Mundy, Jr., Director

/s/  ARTHUR
    F. WEINBACH

Arthur
    F. Weinbach, Director

144

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 y50144exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1  

CERTIFICATION  

I, Fred Hassan, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schering-Plough Corporation (the  registrant 

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with Generally Accepted
    Accounting Principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   FRED
    HASSAN 

Fred
    Hassan

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Date: February 29, 2008

145

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 y50144exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2  

CERTIFICATION  

I, Robert J. Bertolini, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Schering-Plough Corporation (the  registrant 

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)) 
    for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   ROBERT
    J. BERTOLINI 

Robert
    J. Bertolini

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Date: February 29, 2008

146

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 y50144exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1  

CERTIFICATION  

I, Fred Hassan, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
    Officer of Schering-Plough Corporation, certify, pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the  Annual
    Report ) which this statement accompanies fully complies
    with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m); and

(2) information contained in the Annual Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of Schering-Plough Corporation.

/s/   FRED
    HASSAN 

Fred
    Hassan

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: February 29, 2008

147

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 y50144exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2  

CERTIFICATION  

I, Robert J. Bertolini, Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of Schering-Plough Corporation, certify,
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
    that:

(1) the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the  Annual
    Report ) which this statement accompanies fully complies
    with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m); and

(2) information contained in the Annual Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of Schering-Plough Corporation.

/s/   ROBERT
    J. BERTOLINI 

Robert
    J. Bertolini

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: February 29, 2008

148

</EX-32.2>

